ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 23rd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Violeta Tomić, Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs. Jelka Godec, Mrs. Vlasta Wait from 18:00, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, Mrs. Erika Dekleva, Mr. Andrej Cuz, Dr. Laszlo Göncz from 17:00, Mr. Franc Laj, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek from 17:00, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Mr. Franz Breznik, Mr. Marko Ferluga from 18:00, Mr. Marjan Dolinšek from 18:00 and Dr. Franz Runk since 3:00. I welcome everyone here. Before we move on to item 4 of the agenda, I invite the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, to address the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Union of Veterans of War for Slovenia and the North Association, ladies and gentlemen! I am proud, and I consider it an honor to present you at the holiday of our country, the day of sovereignty. This holiday represents the highlight of the creation of the Slovenian state. It is some holiday Triglav, where one leg represents plebiscite and the decision for Slovenia alone, the second declaration of the independent state, the summit that connects both legs, represents today's holiday, the day of sovereignty. It is the day that the last soldier of the Yugoslav People's Army left Slovenian territory and Slovenia was able to breathe freedom and democracy. But the departure of foreign soldiers from our land was not as simple as it may seem today, but it demanded hard work and, above all, a great deal of life energy that we had gained back then. Here goes the thanks of all the soldiers and policemen who have fought our independence, as well as all those who have cared that the foreign army has left our country without a single shot, without a single wound. Even if we feel that way today, that was not the case. All plans for the departure of the Yugoslav People's Army had to be carefully and accurately prepared, with possible deviations and, above all, more or less likely scenarios. All with the aim of protecting Slovenia's independence and statehood. And we reached our mark on October 25, 1991. Slovenia was free! Her truly independent path could have begun. This journey was not easy, but it was largely unfair. There have been many crossings where we may have turned in the wrong direction for a moment, many mistakes that we should not have made, but we did. But no matter what, we were on our own, and with our country we had to learn to manage. Of course, the task today is not easy and is extremely responsible, but at the same time it is unique. For there is no more beautiful, there is no greater honor than serving our country. This is true today, twenty-five years later. Despite the fact that we have handed over a certain part of our sovereign rights to the European Union, our country is still sovereign and independent. This does not mean, of course, that it is not linked to other actors in the international community, but means that it must be linked on the basis of sovereign equality. As a sovereign state, the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the common European homeland. And we need to do more here. A lot more. Our sovereignty can be exercised only in full cooperation with others. It is therefore right for the Republic of Slovenia to make the most of the difficult and crucial times for it and for Europe in order for the European Union to be a mother and not a stepmother to all its citizens and citizens. It is a matter of responsibility, co-responsibility and solidarity, and above all the exercise of our sovereign will, that is the will with which we have gathered the country and with which we have defended it. Ladies and gentlemen, when Mr Marjan Dolinšek, a fellow Member of the Modern Centre Party, proposed to introduce a new State holiday, he said in his explanation that this holiday should not only represent the day of the departure of the last Yugoslav People's Army soldier, but also the day that we were united, proud and confident. And he was right. We share too much pleasure and too often in Slovenia, but we forget that we were united and proud during the period from independence to international recognition. Only because we knew we were fighting for our own and our own right, we were proud of what we had accomplished in the past few months. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us raise this evening when the official celebration of our day of sovereignty will be a cup in memory of our unity and we decide to restore these times. Sovereign and independent Slovenia is the homeland of all of us and everyone is its child. Happy birthday, Slovenia! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is the third defensively proposed bill on chimney services within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u4	Mr Primož Hainz, honourable Members! I am pleased to continue with the consideration of the proposal for a law on chimney services, which will bring about the necessary changes in the field of the provision of chimney services and allow this activity to remain regulated in order to protect the interests of citizens. We know that the Environmental Protection Act 1F has laid down that the provision of chimney services is to be maintained in a concessional manner only up to 31. 12. In 2015, when it ceased to be a compulsory State economic service, which meant that without the system of this service, it was necessary to leave the market. With the adoption of the Environmental Protection Act 1H, the provision of chimney services has been extended to the end of this year. The opinion of the Ministry is that, in order to ensure objectives such as: environmental protection, health and property protection, fire safety and energy efficiency of small combustion plants, we cannot leave the market but that regulation of this area is also necessary in the future. We believe that the user should be allowed to choose a chimney company. Last year and this year, we have warned that opinions on what a system solution is most suitable for achieving energy efficiency objectives, improving air quality and protecting health and property are shared or even in two very conflicting fields. Although the last discussions also point to a variety of opinions, I am pleased that the awareness has been greatly strengthened that the proposal of the licensing system proposed in the Smoker Services Act is the closest thing that constitutes an acceptable solution for all parties. I would like to stress again the advantages of the proposed regulation. The most important novelty is for users of chimney services who will have the option of choosing a chimney company with all the benefits of a competitive market for them. In doing so, I am primarily thinking about the user's more user-friendly service delivery and price competitiveness, as the maximum permitted service prices will be set. The license will be awarded to the chimneys and, if necessary, will be taken away from administrative units. The licence will not be restricted locally, it will apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia and will not be limited in time. In order to effectively operate the new system, it will be necessary to strengthen the supervision of the implementation of the law, which we intend to do primarily through the upgrading of the chimney record and the strengthening of environmental control by the Inspectorate and the exercise of control by other competent inspection services. The proposed system represents a significant reduction of the administrative burden. The new, more flexible licensing system will allow the administration to focus more on raising the level of service delivery than on the work on concessions. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we believe that the proposed scheme for the provision of chimney services will prove effective and that both users and operators will be satisfied with the solutions it brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will postpone the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u6	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on chimney services is new in the area of chimneys. The government is speeding up the re-regulation as the existing legislation applies only until the end of this year. If the new law had not been adopted by then, smoking would have become a completely disorderly area. With the bill, the government also wanted to make some changes to the regime, which we viewed as positive in Novi Slovenija. As one of them, let me first point out the possibility for users to choose chimneys for themselves, regardless of where they are. The chimney licence, which would have been issued by administrative units in accordance with the draft law, would apply to the whole country. This represents a step towards opening up competition, as we welcome Christian Democrats. Citizens have to be able to choose for themselves which chimney will take care of their device. If the chimney is more than 25 kilometres away from the users, the bill also provides for the possibility of paying travel costs, which the chimney might not charge if it wants to maintain a more competitive position. In this regard, the question of the disproportionately poor situation of persons with residence, which is more than 25 kilometres away from the chimney, is raised. In accordance with the proposal of the Government Act, taking into account prices in activities with a similar level of professional education, the Minister shall determine the maximum price per unit of time and shall set a time standard for individual chimney services. The Government bases the maximum price in the proposal on the fact that the service is compulsory for the user, which is expected to have a strong impact on the market system. Given that the proposal for a law entails the termination of the status of the public service and the liberalisation of the chimney industry services, it is questionable whether price restrictions are justified, since they are generally set by the market in open competition. If prices are too high, the supply of chimney services and competition will consequently increase. Let us recall that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly at the time of the adoption of the law had certain concerns. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposed legislation is partly unclear and inconsistent and derogates from the legal and system-wide regime. With the envisaged limitations of economic activity in the market system and the interference with the autonomy of the contracting parties, it interferes with the free economic initiative provided for in Article 74 of the Constitution and with the general freedom to regulate the bond relations resulting from Article 35 of the Constitution. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposed amendments do not remove all concerns, so in Novi Slovenija we note the likelihood that the law in the future in the Constitutional Court will be found to be inconsistent with the Constitution. In Novi Slovenije we have already pointed out the possible conflict of interests of operators in the process of enacting the law as a weakness of the bill. That this thought has not been fully eliminated, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia also warns. In Novi Slovenija we will not support the proposal for a law on chimney services.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u8	Thank you. Your Honor! We have before us a law on chimney services, which is characteristic of the opposite direction, which the coalition manifests to the opposition. We are told that our proposals for laws are non-systematic, unconformed with expertise and many other findings. What does marriage do? It brings a big change, a transfer from one system to another system, but no analysis has been made that makes the new proposed licensing system better. We do not know how the law can be implemented in practice. The Ministry did not allow the profession to make better use of its comments and proposals. What are the biggest shortcomings? The greatest shortcomings are already warned in the law by the Legal and Legislative Service. The law is not compatible with itself either; a large number of amendments especially point out this. Even more, the legal profession warns that some solutions are unconstitutional. There are also no defined financial implications and the profession points out that the law will not be implemented as envisaged. What would you particularly point out? I expose the security aspect, from fire safety to everything else, because the economic situation forces people to go to as cheap sources of heating as possible, and thus fire safety, which is increasingly threatened on the other hand, and the law forces people to do more actively themselves. [[…]] This is a typical case where the obligations under the law are passed on to the user. The environmental aspect, as very important – CO2, toxic gases, greenhouse gases – I do not know how this law will achieve the standards of the Kyoto Protocol. And, of course, the unresolved issue of inspections. Modern technology allows for such and other inspections, and this is not foreseen in this law. If I finish. What does marriage bring? It brings non-compliance in legislation, the law is not compatible with itself, nor is it consistent with other legislation. It brings a high level of risk and reduces people's living standards, mainly due to greenhouse gases and other harmful gases. It would be worth considering the proposals of the profession in order to implement the proposed modified system, but unfortunately the Ministry did not take it into account. That's why we can't support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojan Krajnc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister! According to the current Environmental Protection Act, which regulates the area of chimney services, the existing concession regime only applies until 31 December 2016, when it ceases to be a compulsory public economic service. It was therefore necessary to find a solution that would enable users and operators of chimney services to move from old to new regulation as easily as possible while ensuring public interest protection, environmental protection, health protection, fire safety and energy efficiency. I am sure that this has also worked with the present proposal on chimney services. In public, two diametrically opposite fields have been established on the regulation of the area of chimney services. One who advocates full liberalisation and has not been able to meet the above-mentioned public interest and the other who advocates the existing concession regime, whose validity expires as a matter of fact. A survey of the satisfaction of users of chimney services was often mentioned in the discussions, after which 84% of users were satisfied and 16% were dissatisfied. The new regime thus allows dissatisfied users to choose another smoker service provider. However, satisfied users do not have to do anything if they want to keep the current contractor, but of course they can also choose another contractor if they want to. The bill thus represents the best possible compromise between the two poles. While the Ministry of Environment and Space faces a number of challenges, the implementation of the law will be effective. The most important are the adoption of sub-legislative acts and the supervision of the implementation of the law. At the beginning of 2017, the Ministry of Environment and Space must also publish a record of the operators of chimney services who have a valid licence. From then on until 30 June 2017, it will be possible to select a smoker service provider for the next 12 months. Each new smoker service provider will also be eligible for selection by 30 June of the current year for the next 12 months. The objectives of the law are, in particular, to choose a smoker service provider and healthy competition on the market to improve the quality of the provision of chimney services and to protect the public interest of environmental protection, health protection, fire safety and energy efficiency. For all the reasons mentioned above, we will once again support the proposal for a bill on chimney services in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister with co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The current system is both professional and user-friendly in the area of chimneys. It needs to be built on new foundations, maintain the healthy core of the current system regime and improve it, as for example, it has always been improved by the constantly comparable state of Austria and Germany, which have also aligned the law with the European Commission. I have been in Parliament since 2005 when we asked ourselves, at one of the first meetings, whether the last day of the amendment of the law had been prepared by the current Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Anton Rop, and when two days before the adoption of the law, a regulation had already been adopted that accurately defined the system as we have today, namely the system of concessions, whether it was correct or not, or whether it was then to go to a system of so-called licences or to return to the municipalities the area of chimneys. But whatever it is, experience shows that there has been some progress in the area of chimneys from 2005 to 2016, but today we are in 2016 and we are ahead of the end of the concession period. Now we have a system in front of us that the Ministry calls a licensing system, and we say it's not a bird or a mouse. Because the license sounds good, but allow me to present the reasons below why we will not support the proposal in the SDS Group. We believe that this is only a matter of beauty correction, which – at least in the light of what is stated in the law – will, above all, bring even worse results to the future, both in the field of the environment and in particular in the area of human health, both by the profession on the one hand and by the civil initiatives on the other. The concession system we have is not perfect. There are many irregularities, but in the SDS Group we are confident that in a few years or two we will find that this system has nevertheless been better than the bill that you will confirm today by the coalition Members. The Court of Auditors also notes that the system needs to be changed. Their findings are very explicit and precise – to put bad concessionaires aside and to get some new concessionaire. We have two extensive reports of them, what is wrong, what should be done, and who should do everything, and who should no longer be involved in the smoke industry. But look at the fraction, just the biggest debtors of the Court of Auditors report are the main initiators of the system that you will accept today. All in the sense that the area of the chimney service is even more blurred. Once again in the parliamentary group, the Ministry of Environment and Space is part of the problem and not part of the solution to the regulation of the chimney service. The proposal for a law is not prepared on professional grounds and grounds, which is why the objectives presented in the introduction of the law will not be achieved if the bill is adopted. Not least are users prepared to implement this law, but even fewer operators and at least a country that plays a key role in establishing a new system. It should be noted that, despite the promises and conclusions, Ones say that a working group has been set up, others say that it has not been established, that users have not cooperated, i.e. civil initiatives as well as the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which are affected by this law. [[…]] Therefore, it is no wonder that the Law-Legal Service broke the law that came into the National Assembly. And even all these editorial corrections, which were flown both by the Ministry and by coalition parliamentary groups, do not make the introductory bad picture any better. Both the Chamber of Commerce and users still oppose the law. I quote one of the civil initiative letters I received this week: "The main objective of this law is to encourage chimney services and discipline owners of small combustion plants. The chimneys will also be suctioned by administrative units." Although I do not agree that administrative units will be sucked into this law, the Ministry will force them to do something that they are certainly not responsible for and even less qualified to do. And, of course, as under the legal proposals of this government, certain promoters of additional education and periodic test of knowledge will also be suctioned, who want to make chimney smokers into obviously some officials in white robes. At the same time, it is crucial that the quality of chimney services is significantly reduced and the possibility of abuse is increased, but obviously this is not important for the Government. We note that some solutions are also inadequate in this third reading; it is not even possible to determine how they will apply after 1 July 2016 or if you wish to use 1 July 2016. 1. 2018, when the longest transitional period is reached. But the government's already basically missed it. There is no comparative analysis, and in the end, the sub-laws, which will degrade what is good in this bill. Because we all know that when officials in individual ministries get their own nursery, they easily acquire it. But in the end, respectable, respected, people will come to you in your offices who will be appalled at what you have accepted. And once again, even if there is something good about this law, be assured that the acts of law will do as they have done in the area of chimneys in the past. This purpose of the law has been undermined. In short, if I go back to the administrative units. I want to know how the Ministry can ensure that people in administrative units are trained so physically, materially, and above all professionally, that people will do the business that this Ministry imposes on them by means of this law. This marriage brings little or no good. The ministry will boast, we will have a free market, which, on the other hand, will still be a compulsory public, state economic service. If you ask any solid economist how we can compress the free market and the compulsory public, state economic service into one sentence, he will say that this is not going to work. But this is also obviously where the Ministry of Environment and Space has found some refugees, but I assure you it will not live in practice. Moreover, there will be inequalities in access to services for users living in remote areas. Another law where the state privileged those who live in centres and deprived people living outside decision-making centres, centres of power and centres of action. Why? See the legal provisions that discuss the possibility of selecting a chimney. But if you want to choose a chimney that will be more than 25 kilometers away from you, you will have to pay 0.25 euros in travel costs for each mile. I wonder which John of Styria will choose from Gorenjska, Dolenjska, Primorska, if he will have to pay for this, for example, for 10 km 2.5 more or for example, for 100 km 25 more for free choice of chimneys? No one will choose another chimney, respected and respected. But, as we say, those people from the countryside will be forced to pay travel costs. In the congregation from which I come, we have from the center of the congregation, that is, where one of the chimney companies is located, and to some remote places more than 25 kilometers away, while the other is nowhere near and will automatically be forced to pay travel costs. More than that, when we talk about supervision on the other hand, the Ministry of Control foresees 8 to 10 inspectors, which only means continuing to remain in the non-control of this service in the future. People will be able to complain, and in two years, they'll have some kind of chicken that can't be solved. It is also totally unacceptable that obligations for users should take place within six months of the entry into force of the law, i.e. from 1. 1. 2017. And if we count for six months, then people will have to think outside the chimney smoking season about which chimney to choose. Who of the Slovenians and Slovenes will deal with the chimney he chooses in June? No one, everyone will think about when, where and how to take a vacation. Of course, the ministry will talk about how we must protect our environment and the rest of the Flossules. It is clear that the Ministry of Environment and Space, with such a proposal for a law, wants to destroy those good smokers or smokers services because they put pressure on this law at the back of those who, apart from the competent ministry, are part of the problem and not part of the solution. Look at the numbers; in the last five years we have almost completely destroyed the chimney section. Just look at the number of masters in the last five years — less than five, respected and respected. And then you talk about how you're going to make the new law a chimney expert and how great it's going to be in the area of smoking. Who will deal with chimney services? The few companies that are the main part of the problem and not the solutions that employ people from Romania, Bulgaria with questionable diplomas, and they will be called professions in the future. In short, we will only get a new model, which will, of course, be pioneerly supported, how it is a free market and should also be supported by those who are a little more liberally oriented. But we all know what practice will be. For in fact it is that in the end there will be even less choice between chimneys, because you have destroyed many better ones, but the poor will continue to work in their own way with the help of officials at the Ministry of Environment and Space, where the vast majority of people in this area have been the same since 2004. So it's about some licenses that will be mandatory. The prices will be maximized, but because of what the law says, the prices will not be lower than they were now, and so the law will not be any better. The dynamics of the reviews, which would be one of the key necessary changes to this law, are not changing. If users are not aware, they are facing even higher penalties than they are now. Just read the penal provisions and the transitional and final provisions. If they don't pick a chimney by 1 July, they'll be fined by those inspectors who are supposed to work. In short, the current proposal, which is to be fully supported today, which is also intended to be market-oriented, is a theory. And the practice will show exactly the opposite. There will be no mistake in the SDS, unlike our colleague Kavčič of the SMC Group, who is still the owner of the chimney company, but unfortunately, we are not experts in this area, but we have quite a few contacts, both with various chimney companies, chimneys, if you want, and on the other hand with civil initiatives. And we also work well with the Chamber of Commerce and Economics, but these are the ones who say that marriage is not good. These are the ones who say that there is a ground for three, four or five dedicated chimney companies that will be even more monopolized by this system that we have with these concessions. So much for the licensing system in the area of chimney services. We will not support the law in the SDS, which is likely to be subject to constitutional judgment, because the system is just as you do not want because it is non-systematic, is untransparent and has huge legal voids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague! After months, I can also say that multi-annual coordination is nearing the adoption of the Smoker Services Act. The final version of the law has been significantly improved, according to the assessment of our parliamentary group, because the ministry has tried to find the best possible solutions, both for smokers and chimney users. However, it was necessary to prepare such solutions as will still ensure mandatory inspections of combustion plants and chimneys with a view to protecting against fires, protecting the environment and, in particular, protecting health and life. In view of the reaction of the work of the interested public after second reading of the proposal, it is possible to conclude that there is a law that will probably never be an opportunity for all. In our parliamentary group, however, we are most pleased with the proposal for a law because it is an acceptable compromise between compulsory public economic service and the market regulation of the chimney sector. The fact is that certain changes had to be adopted in the area of chimney management. A significant number of complaints came to the competent ministry, as many users of chimney services were dissatisfied with their concessionaire and could not replace him. Therefore, such users will certainly like the proposed solution so that everyone can choose their chimney regardless of where the combustion plant is located. The law also provides a solution for those who do not select their chimney by the deadline, for example, because they do not have access to the Internet where the list of chimneys will be published, or simply do not want to make this step of choice. In such cases, the law provides the solution for the last concessionary to remain as a chosen chimneykeeper, provided, of course, that he fulfils the legal conditions for continuing to carry out this activity. At the same time, the law also protects chimneys in the sense that the user will not be able to change the chimney and thus even play the system every month. The user will have to stay with the chimney chosen for at least one year. As we have already said in the first two cases of the bill, in our Group of Members, we believe that licences for chimneys are better than concessions, because they will not be limited locally, so they will apply to the whole area of the country. They will also not be limited in time and will be distributed by administrative units. As regards prices, which have also been common to smokers of concessionaires in the past, if their accounts are often too high, the law will ensure price competitiveness, as the ministry only sets the highest prices. Prices will be set on the basis of time-limits for each service and chimneys will not be able to charge a higher price than the maximum price set by the Government. This means lower prices from the point of view of users, many of whom are facing severe social distress, because they will be market-driven and competition will ensure that prices are sustainable for all users. One of the main features of the law is that control will not work. More than obvious surveillance has not worked in the past, even if we look at how many concessions have been withdrawn and how badly the chimney record has been completed up to one year ago. The Ministry plans to upgrade the chimney record and to strengthen control by additional employment. In the Desus Group, we will also support the draft law in the third reading, as we estimate that only the implementation of the law, which will start on 1 January 2017, will not bring greater shocks and prove effective. According to our assessment, the law will also allow for greater energy efficiency, protect the environment and, above all, protect the health and life of individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, distinguished guests and guests on the balcony! The basic need to amend the law governing the area of chimney services stems from the dissatisfaction of many users with the relationship, quality and user service offered so far by many operators and, on the other hand, by the failure to carry out activities in many territories of the Republic of Slovenia, which has significantly affected the reduction of both fire safety and the law of high environmental standards. As a third and one of the key incentives for a change in this area is the stiffness of the existing system of chimney services, which has made an important contribution to incompetence, the inability to modernise this activity and thus the lack of user experience of modern society and modern lifestyle. We could even say that with many changes to the regulation of chimney legislation in the last 70 years, we have come from a point where people, when they met with chimneys, grabbed the button and wished for luck, to the fact that many today began to grab their wallets and lock their doors and prevent access to their small combustion plants. And the Government was, of course, obliged to react and consider establishing a system that would also bring this important part of the reputation of this service back to its former, traditional positive level. The key issue of the law and model before us, therefore, is to find a balance on the one hand between market law and the related desire of users of free choice, and on the other hand by ensuring public interest, public economic services through the regulation of fire safety, air quality and otherwise achieving high environmental standards and affordability of something, which is now mandatory and therefore also regulated. Key in the drafting of this law was that the Ministry, together with coalition parliamentary groups, decided not to force a particular model and certain versions of the law through all three treatments, but to try to listen to as many stakeholders as possible and to balance their interests and wishes. The result is a large number of amendments, but it is also an essentially different law from the one originally prepared. The latter also expresses the Minister's high willingness to draw up a law to the extent of the user and to the extent of the contractor, which we believe is important for us to thank her accordingly. One of the important quality of the law before us is that it attempts to interfere as little as possible with the freedom to conclude and regulate bond relations between the provider and between the user and to reduce potential administrative burdens, which would otherwise often burden the inhabitants, while at the same time burdening the operators in a cost-effective sense. Therefore, there is no regulation of personality, negotiation and an important part of user experience is transferred this time to the agreement between the provider and the user, as is usually the case with other unregulated services on the market. However, the State provides a price framework, ensures an obligation to review and provides essential control and records, which has certainly been lacking in recent years. Only properly completed and well managed, and consequently supervised EviDim brings the proper enforcement of this law and can perform its function in a significant part, so it is important that the intention of the Government has also been adopted to allow for the staff enlargement on the side of the supervision and that an appropriate system of implementation of this law will then be made possible. Many critics came from the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. A significant part of them have also been dealt with within the framework of the law through the amendments drafted by the coalition in both first readings. What is crucial is that, during the transitional period, we have enabled the providers of these services to adapt to a new model and that, by means of a one-year obligation to choose a chimney service, we also allow the planning and adequate capacity of each service provider to provide a quality chimney service to its users. And if the evaluation from the studies presented to us by the Government is real, then on the one hand it is not even possible to expect significant changes in the selection of chimneys, but it is possible that the market in the smaller part will be transformed so that people will cancel those service providers with whom they are not satisfied and replace them with those for whom they estimate that they will get the most money for their money and that they can also be satisfied with their service. Since the law is properly pursuing a balance between the market and the provision of public interest, the Social Democrats will support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. The law on chimney services has been leaking for almost a year. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made comments on almost all articles of the law. The observations covered everything from technical and terminology comments themselves to the fact that the purpose of certain articles is not clear and that the provisions of individual articles of the law are not harmonised and that they affect certain constitutional rights. The most significant part of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is the part where the introduction of the market system provided for chimney services is problematic when it is found that the express public interest actually dictates the maintenance of this activity in the form of a public economic service. The conflict between the envisaged establishment of market activities and the public interest highlighted on the other hand is, in fact, a conflict between the certification in the neoliberal dogma of the invisible arm of the market, which has led to all policies of this Government, and the knowledge that these services are a matter of matter which should not be left to the market. Despite extensive legislative amendments by coalition parties, this conflict remains. The Smoker Services Act is a typical example of how the government always resorts to the same principles of solutions – deregulation, privatisation and liberalisation in solving problems. The law under consideration is an example of the latter. The problems facing this country in the area of chimneys have long been known. At first we had a public economic service, then a compulsory state economic service, then a concession system was introduced, which is still in force today, and now we would like to abandon it and introduce a licensing system. It is true that the provision of chimney services will still be regulated to a certain extent, but the trend here is clear. Slowly, but persistently, the provision of chimney services, which are of exceptional importance both for the health of people and for the protection of the environment, leaves it to the free market. The country's retreating more and more, capital cuts. The system we have today is bad. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly pointed out this. Concessions for the provision of chimney services are concentrated and centralised in some companies that have more than 10, up to a maximum of 26 concessions, problems with the quality of services, there are many opportunities for earnings, irregularities, illegality and abuse. Moreover, due to the current applicable principle — one concession per area — users cannot choose another in case of discontent with the contractor. This is one of the things that we think is good in ZL. Nevertheless, the market system will not address the previously mentioned shortcomings of the existing system, but, on the contrary, it will greatly encourage them. Open competition is unlikely or will not lead to an increase in the number of smokers' services providers, as the largest smokers' companies already in control of the left market share in the concession system will easily shake everyone else. It will establish an oligopoly, where it will appear that there is a possibility for people to choose a free smoker service provider, but in fact this option will still be very limited for users. The government could opt for practically any form of ensuring the accessibility of chimney services to citizens. In the view of the United Left, smoker services are intended both from a health and environmental point of view for sensitive matter, so that in no case should they be left to the market. The State should ensure the provision of chimney services in the form of an appropriate State economic service. Some shortcomings of the existing concession system could also be addressed to begin with. Unfortunately, the Government has turned the other way and decided to introduce the licensing system, thus taking the next step in the liberalisation of the chimney services. During the legislative process, she went in her typical manner as a bulldozer over the opinion of the profession and other interested public, including the opinions and proposals of opposition parties. We will vote against the adoption of this law in the ZL, as in previous cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Chairman. As far as the regulation of chimney services is concerned, let me say that as long as I have been in this National Assembly – I can say that since 2012 – there has been a debate on how to regulate the area of chimney services, the Court of Auditors has also reported on this. Thus, the debate has been going on for about four years. Civil initiatives are also active here. I won't mention them. We all get their messages. However, time seems to be running so fast that it is simply impossible to prepare one harmonised good law with all stakeholders who actually know the problem of the regulation of the chimney service somehow into the intestines or into the chimney itself, if I may say so by chimney. It seems to me that the problems that I have been monitoring at this time were, above all, the need to regulate the area of chimney services mainly in order for everyone to choose their chimney. With current legislation, however, this will be possible. This occurred in previous or past years, that simply certain areas were allocated to an undertaking granted through concessions and you could easily have had a chimney in the village, could not come to you, or look in the neighbouring village, but someone who was far away came. Here on the side of New Slovenia we welcome this arrangement, but each one chooses its own contractor. However, once again I stress that the accounting of some travel costs away, so that it comes back again, that it will simply be possible for those who do not really have it nearby, this matter has become more expensive, and it seems to me that there is still some way to look for solutions, how and what to do. Finally, I think or I would like the market to set prices on its own, so that more people will also opt for chimney services. When we spoke to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the section for chimneys In a way all chimneys are quite burdensome, and yet we have to ask ourselves, is this really such an ungrateful profession, is it really one such profession that no one really wants to work in this profession? On the other hand, we have a lot of unemployed again, and it is hard to get, I believe, they themselves have said, it is difficult to get some reliable, good, conscientious worker in this area. Therefore, it is also necessary to encourage and approach the smoking profession in some way, since, at some point in time, we have really held onto the buttons, as a colleague said in his position earlier, when we met the chimney, practically this time has already been, we have progressed or already passed, because everything is different today because everything is looking at the environment and they are also different appliances for the measurement, but it takes knowledge, as well as a detailed view of the chimney itself and the combustion plant. [[…]] The government has somehow had a period of time for every two years to prepare some harmonised flawless law, and now, after review and after all reports, there is also a fear that the law is not harmonised and even at some point can be constitutionally disputed. It seems to me that there has been a lack of energy on the part of the Government or a lack of will in coordinating, not least with the Chamber of Commerce. All of us Members have received or at least those who are members of the Committee, as many as 20 pages of the comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which should be harmonised. So they've come across the street to make things right, but apparently there's still no such thing. It seems to me that here there is an important consideration of how the orderliness or coverage and care of chimneys and combustion plants will take place in multi-housing buildings, where there are several owners and one combustion plant; each of them can still share it. Here there was a serious thought also on the side of the Chamber of Commerce and it seems to me that it is in this area that we need to look at what can be done, however, so that such matters would not occur, that someone would still want someone to do the implementation, then another would say something else. This will then lead to confusion and it seems to me that just such multi-housing combustion plants are important and necessary controls, including experienced and trained chimneys. Unfortunately this has not happened, so we will not support this bill in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. Here you go, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u22	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll repeat what I've said many times. When this law was adopted, it was more than evident that we have two diametrically opposite fields of the interested public; one was those for the whole market system; the other were those who are members of the existing concession system. And more than clearly, it was already at the beginning of the legislative process itself and later that there would be no consensus, no very harmonised law. There have been criticisms in terms of why you are not in line with the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce. I believe that this proposal, which we now have on the table, is somehow the most coherent. Of course, because of the fact that there are also representatives of chimneys in these chambers, in fact the people who deal with it and are somehow by nature things, I don't blame them, they're interested in keeping the system the way it is. Why is the system not as it is, or why does the marriage proposal no longer offer concession contracts, a concession system? Because this was abolished in 2013 by the adoption of the Environmental Protection Act. So this law is not the one that is problematic in this sense, if you want to abolish something that has been good so far, but this system so far has abolished the Environmental Protection Act. I went to look at the debates when this Environmental Protection Act was adopted; what the Members were saying at the time, why they were introducing this change, which is why they were shutting down the system. And there's not much to be seen from these discussions. Even from the debates of members of the then opposition who were against the law, it is not even apparent. No one stood up for the old marriage, everyone said in the debate, "Yeah, the situation is bad, it needs to be settled." The law was finally adopted and thus a certain termination of this concession system. According to such a decision of the National Assembly in 2013, the Ministry was put before the fact that back to the same law or to adopt something new. The Ministry decided that it would go according to the result of the then vote on something new and, in pursuit of some public benefit, adopt a law that also follows this public benefit, which affects safety, health, property and the like. The law we have on the table does not fully introduce the market system. Some of you are problematic in the sense that there should still be prices of chimney services, as defined, deregulation or that there should not be a maximum price, one says that we should go back to the concession system, but let me remember, this has been abolished by the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act. So, the law means some mix of the market system and some regulation. It was heard why prices were even regulated. Make sure they're marketed. I cannot agree with this, but this is not because we do not have all the market mechanisms here. Not just demand, not supply. We have somehow regulated the offer in terms of prices, but demand is also not entirely subject to the ordinary market. We have actually agreed on the demand and laid down in the law. So those who will be involved in the provision of chimney services already know that they will have certain customers on the other hand because there is still an obligation in the law to clean measuring devices or other obligations arising out of the law. So the market is not here, I will say, completely free, just as it is for the sale of fruit and vegetables, but we already have a guaranteed demand, and, of course, in view of such a situation, it is necessary to adjust, even in terms of ensuring this public interest, that there will be no abuse as regards the price offered. It is difficult for me to predict now and say that this law is great oh and not at all and that it will not occur in the next year or in two years any change in legislation. Of course, this is possible because we are going to this system for the first time, and I believe certain warnings will come from the ground. And, finally, this law will be much like that of the previous one, depending on control. If he gives up or he won't, this law will be bad, and I will say, in this sense, I appeal here to the Ministry to ensure, however, that this law is implemented to the greatest extent. If it is as it was conceived and presented by the Ministry, then we can promise that users will benefit from the law when they choose their contractor. We've heard that those who don't choose anyone will keep the one they've had so far. This may also be a response to the concerns of colleague Lisco, who said in his presentation that people will have to deal with the selection of chimneys in midsummer – they will not need to. The law also provides for more free economic initiatives on the part of smokers or those involved in this activity. In fact, it will be necessary to apply for or apply for a licence, and whoever has this licence will be able to deal with this activity. As far as prices are concerned, I might even recall or somehow touch on the cost debate for those more than 25 kilometres from the company's headquarters. I believe, however, that, to a certain extent, this law introduces a free initiative, that smokers or these companies will also reach users with their offers, that there will be some competition here, some competition, and that they will organise their work in such a way as to cover as much of the area as possible, I will say, the Republic of Slovenia and that, in fact, such an offer may come from this, that these chimney services will not even be accounted for. But it's completely, I'll say, logically, that somehow very remote places mean certain costs. We cannot pass this cost on to the chimney service itself, but they are overrun in the part that relates to the strip up to 25 kilometers. But as I said before, the most important of all will be this competition and the offers they will send, I believe, to the users of the individual company. However, I believe that there will also be certain contracts on the market, and the law does not limit this. So, if a chimney company comes, of course, a provider will be able to say, "we are counting on you without all the travel costs, regardless of whether you are more than 25 kilometers away if this service or this contract is concluded for a certain period". I believe that next year will be the first results of this law. If we have to change it, we will, and by then I think it's the law, let's say, in place. As a result of what has already been adopted in the past, this is that the old system does not go through and the result of some coordination with, say, the professional public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u24	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, there has been considerable change in this Act on the conduct of chimney activity. And I wonder if the law follows this big change. I don't think so. For it goes from the so-called concession period to the actual licensing system and also the rights of free choice of all users. The law of this amendment does not follow as it should. If I summarize the words of my predecessor, Mr Zorčič, they have made every effort to match the mixture to the widest possible circle, both on the performer's side and on the users' side. And that, in my opinion, is bad. The law must be pure, clear, exact, precise and in practice the most practical law is applicable. I'd call it that. It's really a mix. We used to say cooking, if we put a lot of good stuff in the one-boiler that fit together, it's a good one-boiler. And we're working with this law, I don't know, "Million", and we end up putting it together in one pot. Now it's supposed to be this or it's supposed to be a good meal. That's the way it is with this marriage. The law isn't clear, it's not exact, it's actually a mix, not to say, of old arrangements that intertwine with new arrangements. This also shows the extremely large number of amendments that have been tabled in this proposal. This is also a clear indicator for the assessment that this is an unconstitutional proposal, as well as the possibility of assessing this constitutionality. This mix of ambiguity also makes it difficult to assess how this law will work in practice. There's a lot of doubt. And such a law is very difficult to control. What will be the control system, how will it work, and what will be the effectiveness of the control and, after all, the success of the basic purpose of this law itself? If I look back, I see a problem because certain adopted laws are not implemented as they should be. We have very well written laws, but we are not consistent, not following how they are implemented. Case for chimney services – Madam Minister, I do not know if your employees have ever read the Court’s opinion on irregularities in this area? Let them read it to each other. There are also irregularities and there have been no measures to correct these irregularities, which the Court of Auditors has observed, by what measures these irregularities would have been corrected. There was no measure to, I don't know, thank the poor concessionaires for not doing their job well. I have not observed such measures in this area. Here I believe that this state institution, which is doing its job well, should also be taken into account. Not only in this department of yours, but I do see that in other departments of the ministries, they actually get so excited about the Court of Auditors' opinion. This is now a permanent practice of the current government. Yeah, the irregularities are determined, but nothing about it, they wrote an opinion, put it in paper, this document in the bottom drawer, and they forgot all of it. Why do we have an institution of the Court of Auditors, and why are their observations, their irregularities not rectified by measures, by a different reception, by a different approach, and so on, that things improve? It's practically gone. As a result, of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I would say, such a proposal, which is not clear and exact and fully beneficial to all users, of course we will not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Dr Mitja Horvat. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, including the Minister and colleague! So for a long time there have been numerous complaints and dissatisfaction of users of chimney services with concessionaires who, of course, provided these services. These complaints or dissatisfaction related mainly to inappropriate treatment of users and to non-quality services to be performed by smokers. The city also suffered dissatisfaction from users, here I think mainly these remote places where individual concessionaires were not interested in providing services. The consequences of such a relationship were, of course, adverse for the environment, as environmental standards were not being implemented and fire safety was also reduced, or there was a threat to buildings where chimney services were not carried out to cause fire. The Ministry has therefore drawn up a new Law on chimney services, which, of course, brings important changes. First of all, I would like to say briefly that I have a very important change to the abolition of the licensing system, the abolition of the concession system for the provision of chimney services and the introduction of a licensing form for the performance of this service, by means of the granting of licences by an administrative unit. [[…]] In the event that the person who receives the licence would not do his job properly, the administrative unit will, of course, also the institution that will then withdraw the licence from such an operator. It also seems very important to me that Article 15 instructs the chimney to alert the user if the combustion plant is not functioning properly, so if it endangers the facility with a fire option or if there is a leak of gases which, of course, threaten the people who operate and live in this building. The operator, this is called a chimney, is obliged in this case to warn this user, the owner of this combustion plant, and, of course, if it does not remedy the error within a certain period of time, the chimney is obliged to alert the inspection service, which will take appropriate action. So this is one very important provision which will, of course, help to avoid endangering the lives of smoker users and, of course, that it will not also endanger fire safety in this facility. I estimate that the Ministry has listened to the drafting of this law to all stakeholders, who were very numerous, and that it has also taken into account the desire to coordinate, there have been many coordinations. And I think that the law is ultimately very appropriate and that it is good that end-users, as well as contractors, will be satisfied with the use. That's why I'm going to support this marriage myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Prepare Dr Mitja Horvat and Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Excuse me, Dr. Mitja Horvat, you have the floor. Prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Dear Minister! Dear Members and Members, as far as we are in the Chamber on this apparently interesting subject, which many are opposed to, are not here to explain more precisely, for what reasons. I would like to respond to some of the views expressed so far, including the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service referred to by those who oppose this law. First and foremost, what needs to be stressed is that, on my behalf, I have to say in two debates – it is said, given the debate on the Smoking Services Act and the previous Tuesday in the interpretation – congratulations to the Minister, you have succeeded in something that I myself have warned you will be difficult. It is difficult to get so many different interests and so different starting points under the common denominator, but you have succeeded. I am pleased that additional efforts have been made, as Mrs Kotnik Popotat said well before me, that efforts, talks, coordination have produced a good result. As the guardian warned us in the 2015 report, there is always a chance to improve things. Surely we will also have some experience when the law is enforced, and we will be able to eliminate what may now be justified in fears, perhaps in interests, of a variety of interests. Personally, I must stress that you've kept this basic line, so what's good for people. There were no important interests or not highlighted, they were given no advantage, but I think it is a good balance between the interests of smokers and the interests of people. This is, of course, what we are working for in the Modern Centre and we are pleased that you have also listened to these arguments. And, of course, in this part, I would like to respond to the concerns of my colleague Kordiš of the United Left that we are always seeking deregulation, privatisation and liberalisation. This is essentially our policy, this is our programme that we are implementing, and that is why, of course, I am glad that we have found good solutions to these issues in the coalition. What I would therefore like to do next is to respond to the concerns expressed by the Legislative and Legal Service, which were also summarised by the parliamentary groups – in particular NSI, the Non-Aligned and the United Left – so that we are in breach of Articles 74 and 35 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Well, let's see. Article 74, second paragraph, provides that the law lays down the conditions for the establishment of economic organisations and that economic activity shall not be carried out in contravention of public benefit. It is true that the public benefit is a somewhat narrower concept, but today there has also been a lot of talk about public interest in this area. And that is exactly what I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Ministry for having managed to preserve this basic red thread of public interest in this area. Ensure quality services to ensure safety in particular. It is true that it is not written anywhere in the Constitution, but in one other area, which is also vital for each individual, we say that we have this area, that we also finance it by public means, to protect life, human health and property. And this is the basic red thread of this law, and once again, congratulations on your success. The acts of unfair competition and acts which, contrary to the law, restrict competition are prohibited — the third paragraph of Article 74. How in the world do you argue with reverse arguments that this could reach out to Article 74, if this is exactly what is incorporated into the law? Enable a wider range of performers instead of the current limited number of performers. I do not understand this argument or this argument does not contain any more serious criticism. For the last time, we were dealing with the issue of the health system for the delivery of health services. Similarly, you will recall that I have warned that in the public sector, i.e. in the wider public sector, what is of public interest, common matters, regulating common things, to start and end everything in health. We've dealt with concessions a lot, concessions yes or no. We also had here, we have a concession system by the end of the year and we are going to the licensing system today. Doctors also carry out their activities of treating patients on the basis of licenses. Why would this system not be acceptable in this area? All right, we can deal with the question of jurisdiction, but I will leave this to the side – whether the administrative units are appropriate or should be the ministry or should there be anyone else who would, of course, grant concessions, as for doctors, a doctor's room. But let's leave this to a further development of the event, of life. We'll see what happens in this area. And that I won't be too long and leave my colleague some time to discuss it. So the idea that the law interferes with Article 35 of the Constitution. Article 35 of the Constitution states that the inviolability of human physical and mental integrity, privacy and personal rights is guaranteed. Therefore, of course, I ask all those who argue on this basis that the bill will be refused to answer the question: in what, then, with what solutions, do we have the law that we are dealing with today, and I believe that we will also accept it, interfering with the inviolability of human physical, mental integrity, its privacy and personal rights? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go. It's not. Mr. Tank is not here. Mr. Fox is not here. The word has magic. Branko Krajnc. Here you go. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u30	I forgive you, Mr Vice President, and at the same time thank you for your word. It's a little hard to perform outside a 98% empty hall, so now I understand those who have to do it. With regard to the questions put forward, I will make an effort to focus more on the Minister with my views. I'm starting my debate with a very basic matter called property. Since our independence, we have somehow attributed greater importance to property than we have at times, and in some areas we understand very well what the concept of property itself means and what it brings to both individuals and individuals, as well as to economic societies. Of course, we have learned very quickly that ownership means responsibility, and in the context of this law, ownership of a small combustion plant means responsibility for all those aspects of public interest that have been mentioned many times today and even before – that is to say, environmental protection, health, fire safety and energy efficiency. What happens in combustion plants in general or in other combustion plants in this particular case is something that can and can have consequences on all four aspects of public interest. We all know, we all know when, we hear that, of course, there can be severe consequences for human health in the event of inadequate, inadequate operation of combustion plants, and there have been fatalities. We all know, we see, we hear, we read about how inappropriate and inadequate combustion pollutes our environment, what this means not only for the surroundings of the buildings where the combustion plants are installed, for a place, but also in a global sense for our planet. We like to stifle, however, how committed we are to protecting the environment, and some – I must say, of course, not the vast majority of whom I believe to be very environmentally conscious – forget that the causes are, of course, very close to them. So ownership is a liability, but it also means that certain obligations must be laid down by law to deal with this property, in this case with combustion plants that must be properly installed first, of course planned, designed, later properly maintained, serviced and that it must be reviewed by someone who is qualified to do so. And smokers and chimney companies will, of course, be, this law ensures. When it comes to two different fields, it is important to say above all that it was not in itself difficult for the two genders to exist, but it was important what their views were. The gender that advocated full liberalisation has, to some extent, represented the low-day extreme view that the owner of the combustion plants does not have to do anything. He assumed that we were all the greatest masters, that we would do everything ourselves, clean the combustion plants, examine the emissions, clean the chimneys, serve things a little more, and that in the end it would be in the best order, and that it would not have to be checked and controlled. That's some argument that doesn't hold up rational thought. On the other hand, the gender that is truly loving within existing associations – says the associations of existing concessionaires at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce – has advocated that nothing should change. It must be said that this second, it is said, that the present concessionaires have shown more will, more interest and willingness to reach the best possible compromise, but of course the first half, which advocates full liberalisation, still insists on their positions and has not shown in the course of the debate any will to soften their views and, in the end, to say that the proposal is harmonised. Of course, it's not consistent, it can't be, it was too extreme at first. However, it is the best possible compromise for the protection of the public interest, which I have mentioned and discussed earlier, with individual cases. The new regime is not entirely marketable, so it is not fully liberalised, it is socio-liberal. It has already been mentioned, this is the Modern Centre Party programme, which is what we stand for. At the same time, I must say that I am not sad but somehow surprised that despite this social liberalisation, New Slovenia has not been able to consider that this law would nevertheless support, given that they have repeatedly stressed in their deliberations their general economic agenda as socio-market-oriented, but that they already have their reasons. In the debates, some debaters, particularly colleagues from the SDS, have worked hard on what the future will bring, have put themselves in the role of those who are even predicting what will happen, what terrible things will happen, what catastrophic predictions in this regard. I must say that, of course, I do not hope to predict the future, because it rarely succeeds, and those who have ever achieved this in history have, of course, had more happiness than intelligence. I can only say this, of course, and I have stressed this in my view that the challenges facing the Ministry are relatively greater than those faced by the Ministry in the implementation of the current regulation. Firstly, because, of course, it has to prove in some way that the new proposed arrangements that we will adopt today are better than those that have been in force so far and that with some different, new, better way of doing things – especially with the organisation of officials that Lisec has been aware that they have been there since 2004, I do not believe that this is a problem because they have been there for so long, it should actually be an advantage – the services are organised in such a way that the implementation of the law will be effective. And here, Minister, I believe you already have a lot of work to do. Nevertheless, of course, there is much success in ensuring the effective implementation of the law. And of course, as my colleague Zorčič has already said, it is not necessarily that the law will remain the way it is; if, in my opinion, in the coming years to two years, it shows that a matter needs to be improved in the law, we will, of course, do so as usual – when we change the laws that we are also improving them. Lisec also mentioned how John of Styria would choose chimneys from Gorenjska or from elsewhere. Of course, according to the law, the users of small combustion plants do not choose chimneys, but a chimney company, because chimney companies provide chimney services and chimney smokers do. This difference is already well - known if one wants to discuss the content of the law with credibility. And of course this case or this argument that someone from Gorenjska should physically come to Styria does not hold back, because the chimney company can, of course, have chimneys or its business units elsewhere in Slovenia and from there smokers can then be taken to the owner of the combustion plant where they perform the chimney service. So we can't talk about mixtures, "multiply" and monopharmaceuticals, but of course we are talking about a law that ensures the protection of public interest in all four areas, and of course I hope and I am sure that this will also reflect on environmental indicators, including health protection, and of course there will be no more unfortunate cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which she will be given the floor by the representative of the Government, Minister Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam President. At the conclusion, perhaps I would like to say what we have said — if I speak of myself as Minister of Environment and Space — from the beginning. You have repeated many Members, but I will repeat that this behaviour is also somehow strengthened. Therefore, the Court of Auditors’ opinion was issued in 2013. The Court of Auditors reviewed the concessional operation for chimneys in 2009 and 2011. And interestingly, in 2013 the then composition of the National Assembly also adopted a new Law on Environmental Protection, called 1F version, and found that concessions or regulation of the chimney service as it was then to be completed should be completed by 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. When I took over the Ministry in 2014 In fact, this topic – we all remember how much unloved events there were because of the floods in Slovenia at the time – took place in early 2015 and was not really a dilemma, we just said that it was possible or to go through concessionaires, to determine their ability to function or to prepare a new law. [[…]] Since I am somehow personalized to look ahead, we have decided to go to the preparation of a new law. It is true that in this year's; we know that last year we extended what is supposed to end 31. 12. 2015, we postponed to this year's 31st. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And of course, we have started to review at least a few of their terms for many concessionaires – concession areas in Slovenia 193, concessionaires. Most of the time there was a problem of entering checks or entering devices into EviDim, and we informed them that they did not meet the conditions for renewal of the licence. In fact, we have successfully filled the record; somehow we estimate that it is 90% of the estimated number of these combustion plants in Slovenia. We are aware, however, that the concessionaires also did not have a review of all the combustion plants in their concession area, that some of the combustion plants have been exempted and that we are now really accepting a change for these owners of the combustion plants. They will now be held responsible for the combustion plant themselves. Until the end of this year, the concessionaire was responsible. In my mind, I think a lot of people don't have a problem with not accepting that the owner is responsible for the combustion plant, not the concessionaire. Thus, it is primarily the task of these owners to seek out the contractor to make a deal with someone. For those owners who have already been in regular checks, by June, when this choice is to be made – but not in June – the smokers will have carried out inspections and will, of course, agree with them whether the customer is satisfied with their implementation or not, whether they will agree on a discount. I don't want to overthink that I know what the market is and price setting is. Indeed, implementation itself will show where the current maximum price can be reduced. I'm sure there'll be some of those areas. There's probably not much going on in the countryside, but maybe we'll talk about this later. So, EviDim has to be upgraded, and we are aware of that, and we have done so, so we have not initiated the process of withdrawal of licences to the old concessionaires because of this major dilemma and irregularities in the new legislation. In some environments, the labour market, which reaches the highest market price, will certainly make it possible to lower prices. I was very sad when I listened to doubts about the competence of administrative staff in the administrative unit. Indeed, I am also from there, I have been for several years now, I was also head of the department, at the time it was for agriculture and the economy, and at the time we issued for a number of activities of the decision. And I see no reason why administrative officials in administrative units trained in a number of procedures would not be able to issue licences. If I say so, I'll say it again, but we didn't just build this rule on expert opinions. In the very functioning of our ministry, we reach people and always try to take the confidence of our citizens and citizens into account as much as possible in the drafting of legislation. I would also like to say that no one has imagined it, and I am sure that we have never been told by the Ministry of Environment and Space that we will achieve the level required by this law for the Kyoto Agreement. We all know about climate change that CO2 emissions are largely dependent on industry. We have adopted several directives for industry in the Ministry relating to the IED Regulation and the industry will adapt to this work if it is not yet. Surely it is one of those activities that actually has the most impact on this thing, transport. Interestingly, traffic is constantly producing CO2. Smoking or combustion plants place more pressure on our atmosphere at lower temperatures, although it is difficult to say now that it is winter, because even in these seasons it changes a lot, but when the temperatures are lower and the process starts to burn, the pressure from the combustion plants is high, while the traffic is constant throughout the year and it is also high, too high. As a result, a number of measures are being implemented, improvements that would also reduce CO2 emissions on transport. Agriculture is not entirely exempt from this either. So we know that, and we can say that this law is one of the laws that will solve these things. In conclusion, I would like to thank everyone who has helped you in any way to prepare, to design, to decide within the statutes of this law, and to help us that the law in its present form is acceptable to all. This thanks is, in general, important on our part, especially because the law, as I have already said, is written for users and performers, I am sure that they will already and will be able to adapt easily to its implementation in their field operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. You've got your word. We have not yet made full use of the time, so please apply for an additional debate, because I know there is still a wish. Sign up, please. Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Tink Lah has the floor. Here you go. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will not support this law for the reasons already stated here by certain parliamentary groups. Actually, I don't care that it's an economic public service and that it's simply a market activity, because I don't think that's working. In my opinion, it should be an economic public service, but it is very much associated here with chimney activity also with fire safety and the mayors or municipalities are responsible for fire safety. I have a particular view of the countryside. 70% of Slovenians live in their own houses. In the countryside there are elderly people living in houses or families on the brink of poverty, where there are the most so - called smoke fires. More and more households are going on solid fuel, so to speak, heating up on trees. Farmers have multiple combustion plants, more chimneys, and no one will check it out. This law stipulates that each individual will choose his own chimney. Now accelerated, these former concessionaires are also working in the countryside, because people do not yet know that there are no concessions. In the future, when they know that there are 800,000 combustion plants in Slovenia, there are ten inspectors who will monitor this, and these inspectors will mainly monitor whether or not the service is done and less likely the quality of the works performed. I want to know who's gonna control it. In the countryside, it is likely that the combustion plants will remain unattended. The penalties are also very low, I think 60 euros, and if you come once every 10 years to get your hands on the inspector, then probably a lot of people won't be able to look into it. However, monitoring is necessary, mainly from the point of view of fire safety. Those who were mayors know what it is, how many municipalities finance fire companies or firefighters are professional to carry out this activity, and how many smoke fires there are. Someone should do an analysis if a new law is being prepared, why these fires have occurred, who is to blame, who should be in charge of this. At times, firefighters visited all the locals before each season and examined the combustion plants, chimneys, and, of course, recommended that this be eliminated. We also have a new inspection of the municipality, which in this case could be supervised in some way, but you have decided to go to the licenses. Those operators who are going to be in the larger cities, in public buildings, in multi-inhabited buildings, are going to have a great charge, live well, and those in the countryside are going to quit because they're going to be less and less, because people aren't going to be afraid of some inspectors. Looks like you don't give a shit about the countryside. Importantly, some city operators will be able to make up for themselves, inspect the ventilation devices, and display their accounts several times a year. That's what happened now. In the country, you don't care. The municipalities are warming up, of course the mayors are warming up some additional tasks, but if this is a public economic service, it has to be carried out consistently everywhere, especially where there is a greater risk of smoke fires. It is probably not a problem of PM10 particles in the countryside, it is more narrow places than in the countryside, but fire safety is very important. But apparently this marriage is not going to bring a solution. Some will be rich, some will see a great profit here, and some will make a good profit, while others will be slow to give up this activity. And there will be fewer performers as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. The amendment to the bill was not tabled. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of public funds rights after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Violeto Tomić. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to Mr Uroš Poklo for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, colleague Hainz. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Allow me briefly to present to you the Committee's position on this law. Our committee, as the parent working body of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, has considered, on the proposal of first-signed colleague Violet Tomić. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the regulation should be dealt with in a simplified manner. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the State Council, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Community of Social Labour Centres and the Friday Smile Initiative also participated in the work of the committee itself. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the regulation from the point of view of its competence. She was also presented on the committee by the state councillor mag. Kuzmanič Korva's position as adopted by the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled people before the proposal for this regulation. Mr Mesec’s representative stressed that the draft law was based on the principle of social justice as it would allow access to a free subsidised lunch for larger joint pupils from families in such an economic social situation as to prevent them from covering the costs of school meals or lunch. It follows the same objective, namely to increase the price for free lunch for pupils from 18% of the net average wage in the Republic of Slovenia to 36%. The current provision of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds binds the right to 100 % of the subsidy of lunch to the first income class in the child allowance, i.e. only 18 % of the net average wage. However, second and third grade children are only partially subsidised as regards school lunch. In its opinion, the Government noted that the current system for subsidising school nutrition from a social and health perspective and from the point of view of the organisation of education and nutrition in school should be analysed first. It is also necessary to encourage this year to increase the share of applicants for lunch and to benefit from the right of everyone who is entitled to it. This is the opinion of the Government, which, of course, also warned that current legislation is not fully in place and is being implemented too often or that changes are too common, making school work difficult and confusing for parents and so on. In the broad debate on Article 1 of the bill, it was pointed out that a range of free school lunches should be extended to the second and third classes with the proposed amendment. Proponents of the bill explicitly pointed out that the problem was very pressing, as representatives of NGOs said that their companies received applications for school meals and that 60% of those applicants were tried in the second and 30% in the third income class. All these children are still living below the poverty threshold, and unfortunately there are still many families that need help, including co-financing of school meals. After the discussion, the Committee agreed that the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds was not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Prickle. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the bill to Mr Luke Mesec for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you, President, and a lovely greeting to all! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which we have drawn up in the United Left, has a single objective. This is to provide all children living below the poverty threshold with free school lunch. In Slovenia, there are 54,000 children living in poverty at the moment. The situation is alarming and calls for action. Currently, only part of these children are entitled to free lunch, which is often the only hot meal on their day. The measure we are proposing is simple and necessary: all children from poor families are provided free school lunch without exception. Since sufficient budgetary resources are already available in the budgets for 2016 and 2017 for the implementation of this measure, we expected the coalition to support the law without any doubt and allow this child from poor families a warm meal at the beginning of this school year. But the fall brought a series of disappointments. First of all, we were disappointed at the coalition's decision not to contribute to the signing of an emergency meeting with which a warm meal would have been provided to these children at the beginning of this school year on 1 September. Above the arguments with which the coalition rejected this, we were directly amazed and appalled. Facts and statistics on the degree of poverty and social exclusion could not be more eloquent. The social situation in Slovenia has deteriorated greatly since the crisis. If 11.5% of the population of Slovenia lived below the poverty threshold in 2007, this percentage had already increased to 14.3% in 2015. In concrete figures this means that at the moment in Slovenia there are as many as 287 000 citizens and citizens living in poverty, of which as many as 54,000 children. We are constantly reminded of this by humanitarian and humanitarian organizations. Yesterday they returned; UNICEF, Alliance of Friends, Friday for smiles are addressing us and sending us a clear message: children in schools are hungry and access to lunch should not depend on good will or voluntary assistance, but should be regulated systematically. It must be guaranteed by the state. All children must have equal opportunities, so the Constitution of this country is ultimately our own. Ensuring equal opportunities for all children is a prerequisite for every social state and fair society. And here again we point out that the current regime does not guarantee this. Not all children from poor families are eligible for free lunch. Children in the second and third income classes have to pay for lunches, and many parents are unable to do so. Although we have sufficient resources in the budget, as I have repeatedly warned that everyone would be entitled to a free lunch, we have heard from the government coalition that the budget is not a bottomless bag and that there is still a consolidation of public finances. In other words, the government and the coalition say we have no money to feed hungry children. Of course, it was significantly different a few weeks ago when you had to vote in favour of the tax reform, with which 10% of the best paid, including us Members and Members sitting here, allowed for a 60-million-dollar tax gift. At that time, no one opposed it except the United Left. We have not heard anywhere that the budget is a bottomless bag or that public financial consolidation is still taking place. Obviously, this is only true when we talk about the poor, even when it comes to children. I do not understand how you can remain so heartless despite all the appeals, personal hardships and witnessing that have been made public during the debate on school lunches. I don't understand how you can eliminate such petitions with the answer that we need further analysis. What would they analyze if school children were really hungry or hungry only at home if the poor were really poor? Will you analyze, as you pointed out, the abuse — it is said that no poor child will benefit from this lunch? I don't understand. The only thing I have left is to remind you once again that this budget will cost nothing, but we will save a number of personal hardships, a number of poor families. I hope you have enough empathy to bring this proposal forward with us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Moon. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for which Mrs Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The law on the exercise of rights from public funds was last amended in June 2015 and entered into force on 1 January 2016. This amendment of the law thus raised the free lunch threshold by allowing children in the 2nd and 3rd grades to benefit from a partial subsidy. The basic proposal for the 2015 novel, which I myself co-signed, envisaged 100 % of school lunch subsidies for all children living below the statistical threshold of poverty. With the amendment of the coalition, however, the final proposal of the 2nd and 3rd income grade children's law is only a partially subsidised lunch. We know that in order to implement the final draft law, which provides for partial subsidisation, the competent ministry has provided 8 additional million. Together, therefore, for this purpose, the €16 million provided and according to the data of the Ministry of State, these funds have not even been fully used. Why am I saying this? Because this means that the National Assembly has already guaranteed money for something you refuse today. And it is therefore sad and incomprehensible that the coalition has renounced its support for children from lower income classes to have lunches entirely free of charge. SMC, Desus and SD. And this is supposed to be a socially sensitive government? Given that school lunch subsidies are certainly one of the necessary measures to reduce poverty among children, and that the means for implementing the measure are already provided, we ask ourselves how free lunches are not provided to these children. While it is necessary to know, of course, that free lunches in poverty eradication are only a partial measure. In our parliamentary group, of course, we will vote against the conclusion that the law, which would provide the poor with a free hot meal, is not suitable for further consideration. The appeal to all those who have at least a little social sense to reconsider and at least talk about this law; do not basically reject what you have done on the committee. And it really saddens me that this is done by those who say or represent themselves as parties who have a social sense. Moreover, in the Alliance party, we believe that this issue should even be extended. What if the concept of free primary school for all children also includes free lunch for all children? Certainly such interpretation would mean avoiding every time, at least half a year, discussions about whether or not we have hungry children, at least in schools. And the appeal of NGOs shows that everything is not as it should be or as the coalition convinces us. The stories of the Bohrst project touch me from week to week. Listen to them, too, and then you can press the "yes" button more easily. And you won't believe that this proposal is really about children.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Bratusek. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go, Mrs. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! On behalf of the SMC Group, let me first express my regret that the debate on school lunches, which has been held in recent months through various media and also in the Halls of the National Assembly, has taken place in the direction of personal accounting, tampering and even manipulation. We were misunderstood throughout the debate. We are aware that this is a serious social problem in the Modern Centre Party and in the Modern Centre Group that we are paying very close attention to this problem in the SMC. We believe that this problem must be tackled primarily within the framework of social policy, for which the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is responsible, not educational policy. It's the country that has to help people in distress to get on their feet. For this reason, we in the Modern Centre Group have decided to support the proposal to return these contents to the home working body. We expect the Government, together with civil society and expertise, to find appropriate comprehensive solutions that will clearly show that it can and can take care of the most vulnerable. Slovenia is a social state and it is our duty to keep it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Murgel. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we advocate that all children be given a free warm meal at school. There is currently no public financial reason for not allowing at least those children living below the poverty line free of charge a warm meal. We are convinced that only a full and healthy child can fully devote himself to learning and acquiring the knowledge that he will need to make his way of life and independence. That is why we have also supported the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which would allow 100 % of the school lunch subsidy to all children living below the poverty line. According to the methodology of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the poverty threshold is currently €596 per family member. Despite the great words of the Prime Minister Mir Cerar and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and the equal opportunity of Mrs. Anje Kopač Mrak to improve the situation in Slovenia, we can sadly monitor the statistics cited by the Research Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection entitled Poverty and Social Exclusion of Families with Children: a material and intangible face of poverty in February 2016, which notes that this is not yet the case and that poverty in Slovenia is still increasing under the government of Mira Cerar. The Government also secretly recognises this as it increased social security expenditure by as much as €52 million in the 2017 budget. The coalition, composed of SMC, Desus and, of course, the SD, which is declared to be the most socially sensitive party, was not supported at the meeting of the Committee on the Work of this Law and even proposed a procedural decision that this law is not suitable for further consideration. This indicates the great duplicity of this coalition and the government of Mira Cerar, who repeatedly speaks one thing over and over again and does another. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just remind you of the law put into Parliament by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which was adopted in the first Janšev government. All the students, no matter what family they came from, got a free hot meal at school. This was the law of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, which was adopted in the first Janša government. At that time, we did not divide the poor into those less poor and those poorer, but we gave everyone a warm meal. We, ladies and gentlemen, have proven how to fight poverty, you will still have to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u46	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that Slovenia is a social state. Citizens and citizens have the right to social security under the conditions laid down by law and children enjoy special protection and care. The current social legislation is relatively young. It was created and established at a time when we were experiencing a financial and economic crisis. The establishment of criteria or censorships for the acquisition of certain rights has already affected many, with the implementation of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits, which has further deepened a little later in the Law on the Balance of Public Finances. During this mandate, we have begun to address some of the shortcomings in social legislation and in order to eliminate the pangs of social transfers introduced by Zujf, we have already done a number of things, of course taking into account the fiscal condition of the country. By approving the proposal to amend the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds – in this regard the same topic discussed today – we have thus found a solution in last year's year, as established this year, by providing for the possibility of partial subsidisation of lunches for pupils in primary schools even for those from the second and third income classes. On the basis of recent changes, the country's average subsidy is around €33 in the second income class and the country contributes around €19 per month to the third income class. It must be said, however, that the country's contribution to lunches to the most vulnerable children is around €47 per month. Also, let me remind you that all children up to and including the fifth income class are fully entitled to a lunch subsidy of 100 %. The DeSUS Group is interested in the answers to the questions about adequate care for the nutrition of children in schools. As with this, we do not hope to argue in the DeSUS Group. Although we have largely a guarantee of individual schools, children in schools are not supposed to be hungry, but by the competent ministries there is a clear indication of how appropriate it is to provide for the nutrition of every child in school. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that if there is any doubt that a single child from a socially disadvantaged family in school is hungry and without 100% of the subsidy, this is not acceptable. We are, of course, wondering whether the legislation currently in force, given the level of social vulnerability of the family, does not provide sufficient eligibility for the subsidy. The question therefore arises whether the material censorship is properly set, whether the appropriate criteria set by the competent ministry are appropriate, or whether it may be that the families of existing entitlements do not even apply and what are the reasons why this is happening. And the latter, so the data on the number of reported children at the school lunch was kind of surprising to us. In the 6-month period of validity and application of the new way of subsidising school lunches, it has been shown that not everyone who could exercise the right is exercising it. It would therefore be useful to know whether the exploitation of the right may be linked to insufficient information from beneficiaries and whether information from schools and social work centres is sufficient. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that in the next process of adopting the law that we are considering today, we will also get answers to those questions. In view of what we have just said in the DeSUS Group, we will vote unitedly that the proposal for a law governing the subsidisation of lunches in primary schools is suitable for further consideration. We will therefore vote against the conclusion that this law is not suitable for further consideration. It does not seem acceptable to the Members of Desus that children from socially disadvantaged families, who also belong in the second or third income class, should wait for different, even more sophisticated, solutions from the competent ministry to regulate 100 % of the subsidies for lunches of children from socially disadvantaged families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bizjak Mlakar. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Marija Bacič. Here you go, Mrs. Bachich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u48	Mr Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues! The new law on the table is one that always leaves a bitter taste. Social Democrats are aware that poverty is getting worse and that there are hungry children among us, so rejecting such proposals is particularly, very difficult. Whenever we have such sensitive matter on the table, it is actually very difficult to understand and even harder to defend that there is no money. Especially when we're talking about kids. Ensuring the future and well-being of children, as well as of all other citizens, is the responsibility of each country, any serious policy that should not incur political capital or populism on the shoulders of vulnerable groups. The Republic of Slovenia has enshrined in the Constitution that it is a legal and social state. In recent times, however, there has been a growing impression that all social welfare is based on the charity and solidarity of citizens, including those who can no longer afford a decent life to themselves and their families with their decent work and hard-earned wages. By approving the proposal for this novel, a solution would be put in place to justify up to 100 % of the subsidy for lunch for all pupils in the first, second and third income classes, i.e. all those whose average monthly income per person does not exceed 36 % of the net average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. The last amendment to the legislation relating to that substance, which has now enacted the current subsidy solution by share according to the income class, has become applicable 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since everything shows that the existing regime is weak because it leaves too many children out, in the Group of Social Democrats, which we have a social sense, we believe we need further consideration on how to deal with this problem. We will therefore vote against the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria Bachič. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. You know, if I knew in the morning that I'd listen to the views of coalition groups, then I'd wake up with a smile. In fact, in recent days there has been nothing to suggest that our proposal for free school lunch for children from poor families will actually go through this treatment, but it seems that we are going back to the committee to find a solution, but to provide these funds and to provide the children with the warm meal they need at school, if they do not get it at home. Since this country, Slovenia, as a social state in children, cannot do so. This is a short bit wrong, even if we take two steps back and remember that not another month of this 10% of the best-paid people in this country without a serious argument has received 60 million Euros a heavy tax gift. Well, then a little later, it was hard for children in poor families to find a few million so that they would not be hungry in school. There is poverty in our society. It's real. Underneath the risk of poverty lives the poor 300,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. But at the same time, poverty is hidden from us. It's good for some shame. That is why we need to talk about it, and that is why it is important to point out here that people are not to blame for their poverty. It's our system's fault, it's capitalism that he threw out of himself as unnecessary and pushed them to the brink. The redistributive mechanisms of the country will then come into play here, which can at least slightly equalize the opportunities of people in class society and also enable deprived people to live a life worth living. The crisis that we have just survived in economic terms is still taking place in a social sense. This crisis arose in financial markets and created a hole that was then waved by billions from countries' budgets across Europe. Therefore, this recovery of the crisis has not affected everyone in the same way. The vast majority of Slovenian citizens are those who have drawn a short end and are most affected by saving. For this reason, statistics on the state of poverty also show us the picture that they show. Of course, the back of the statistics is much more plastic. These are stories, stories of people who try each month to provide their children with basic necessities of life, food, warm housing, etc. And this picture is one that I hope is more eloquent than the statistics suggests that action against poverty is essential. We have already proposed five measures against poverty in the United Left this year, with which poverty and its consequences can be eliminated here and now. And today, with these school lunches, we have one of these measures. A measure that would allow warm meals in school for children in the first, second and third income classes or for families in those classes. In practice, this means that all pupils with an average monthly income not exceeding 36 % of the net average wage would be entitled to a free school lunch. So here we are talking about families where monthly income per person does not exceed EUR 364 about families living below the risk of poverty. And in the United Left, we will vote against the conclusion that this law is not suitable for further consideration, and we will also continue to vote in favour of moving from the talk on poverty to the measures to be taken. As it is said, today all expectations, despite the images, have so much to do with this first step of ours that we will actually succeed, which I am extremely pleased with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kordish. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u52	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! UMAR in yesterday's edition of the Economic Mirror states that the level of poverty risk in Slovenia has decreased slightly, but is still higher than before the crisis. The level of risk of poverty has been reduced by self-employed, unemployed, inactive and fixed-term employees. Compared to the previous year, the level of risk of poverty has deteriorated in the group of workers for an indefinite period of time, both for shorter and for full-time workers. According to education, the risk of poverty has increased most to those with tertiary education. The level of risk of poverty among employees has never been higher. So we have poor employees. Compared to the previous year, some of the most vulnerable groups have also increased their risk of poverty. These are unemployed persons, single women, single-member households and single-parent households. Why am I starting to take the stand of New Slovenia with these alarming, worrying data? To point out to them the Ministry of Labour, which apparently doesn't understand. I conclude this on the basis of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the amendment of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which neither supports nor supports the opposition proposal to amend the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds. A good year ago, we discussed the opposition's proposal with the same solutions, and then the final proposal for the second income class children's legislation for the children's allowances set 70% of the subsidy and 40% of the subsidisation for the third income class children. The main argument for the amendment tabled and the determination of only partial subsidisation of the school lunch was of a financial nature. It is sad that the government and the Ministry of Labour do not have a hearing for the weak, and for example, their chosen ones share unimaginable sums in a bad bank. According to data from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the planned funding for school lunch subsidies was not spent and the available funds would be sufficient for 100% of lunch subsidies – not only for children in the first but also for children in the second and third income classes. In Slovenia, a subsidy of full value for lunch today belongs only to pupils who are regularly trained, are registered for lunch and where the average monthly income per person does not exceed 18% of the net average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, this means €180 per family member per month. This time, the proposal is once again proposed to raise this threshold to 36%. According to their proposal, all children of families with income of up to €360 per family member per month will be entitled to a full-value state subsidy. The bill is such that it is virtually impossible to oppose. This is why we also contributed signatures to the Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in Novi Slovenija, allowing full subsidies to all socially disadvantaged children from the beginning of this year. Significantly and realistically, the left, such an extremely socially sensitive government has once again blocked this possibility. It is unacceptable that we have hungry children in Slovenia, even more worrying that there are more and more. It is right to talk about it, and it is right that all of us feel bad about it. Members of New Slovenia will vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dimic. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on the prevention of violence within the family within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u54	Dear Presidents and Members of Parliament! Domestic violence violates fundamental human rights and constitutes a grave abuse of one person’s power over another. The prevalence of such violence depends largely on how society responds to it. It can condemn him and thus take care to prevent the spread of violence or to tolerate violence. Developed companies strive to establish zero tolerance for violence and to reduce or eliminate all forms of violence. This principle is also followed by Slovenia. Until the target is achieved, prevention and adequate protection and protection of victims must be taken care of. In Slovenia, by 2008, this area was governed by different legislation, which did not allow for the coordinated functioning of state institutions. However, since this is an extremely important and specific area, in 2008 Slovenia adopted the Law on the Prevention of Violence in the Family, which, in terms of the protection of the victim and the coordinated functioning of the public authorities, combined the issue of domestic violence into a separate law. The purpose of the law is to effectively protect victims from further violence, while punishing the perpetrators of violence is dealt with by other legislation – the Penal Code and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. Slovenia has taken a major step in the last decade in addressing and preventing domestic violence. At the time of the adoption of the law, it has also adopted important strategic documents defining the area, detailing measures to protect victims as well as preventive activities in this area. In 2009, the National Assembly adopted a resolution on a national programme for the prevention of domestic violence, and four sub-legal acts were adopted which, at the operational level, provide for the conduct of various authorities and services related to the treatment of domestic violence. In addition, various guidelines and guidelines have been developed for the functioning of institutions in the field of combating domestic violence. The new Penal Code, which defines domestic violence as a crime, was also adopted in 2008. During this time, we have established a quality and sufficiently dense network of various programmes aimed at helping and protecting victims of domestic violence: safe houses, maternity homes, crisis centres, counselling centres for victims of violence, self-help groups, telephone counselling. Legislation needs to be updated to prevent domestic violence and proper treatment and protection of victims. The practice has shown that individual provisions of the Domestic Violence Prevention Act need to be complemented or amended in the part where shortcomings appear in implementation and understanding. The Government has also repeatedly called on the working bodies of the National Assembly – the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities – to amend and supplement the current law. For this reason, a broad interdepartmental working group for the preparation of the novel was established in April 2015. The changes prepared relate mainly to the following areas: complementing the definition of domestic violence, extending the definition of family members, extending judicial measures, changes in the area of leave of residence in common use, banning corporal punishment of children, extending social protection, health care, education and education providers who are assigned the role and tasks of dealing with domestic violence, clarifying the definition of police procedures and procedures before the court, protecting data on the victim, extending the range of possible court measures, in particular for the protection of children and other changes. Slovenia is a signatory to virtually all major declarations, conventions and agreements dealing with domestic violence. In 2014, it ratified an extremely important document, namely the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women, Domestic Violence and the Istanbul Convention. At the time of ratification, the Government assessed that Slovenia has formally complied with all the requirements of the Convention at the legislative level. However, when we prepared the amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, which you are considering today, we have followed the spirit of the Convention and have amended and amended the individual provisions of the law accordingly. At the time of the consideration of the law by the competent committee of the National Assembly and earlier in the context of the public debate on the proposal for a law, the issue of the prohibition of corporal punishment of children and the definition of violence was raised in particular. Let me repeat here what we have repeatedly stressed: the proposed law does not legitimize permissive education. If you take the child's phone, order him to take the trash and ban it at night, you won't be treated as bullies. This is not the purpose of the bill and the bill does not provide for this. It lays down the prohibition of corporal punishment as a clear message from the State that the use of violence as a method of education is not appropriate. It is simply a civilisation norm of the developed world to which Slovenia belongs and which has so far been adopted by the 29 member states of the Council of Europe and together 49 countries in the world. Members and Members of Parliament, I ask that you support the proposed law in a uniform manner and thus inform the Slovenian and wider public that violence in the family in Slovenia will not be tolerated and we will do everything necessary to protect the victims of such violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Mr. Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister! Allow me to briefly present the Committee's report. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is 29. 9. At its 29th meeting, he considered the draft law submitted by the Government as his mother's working body. The work of the committee was carried out by the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Legal and Legislative Service, the State Council, the Ombudsman and a range of civil society movements or initiatives. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined the law in its field and has made some comments that have been taken into account through the coalition amendments. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which attached the proposed amendments to the law. In its opening remarks, the representative said that the draft law would update the existing Domestic Violence Prevention Act in a way that would further protect the victims of domestic violence, and improve the functioning of many State institutions in addressing such violence. The new law defines domestic violence more precisely and updates the definition of family members. It also improves coordination and communication between all competent institutions and bodies and improves the procedures for dealing with domestic violence. The proposal regulates those provisions that have so far proved to be insufficient or insufficiently effective in practice. Domestic violence is a general social problem because it interferes with fundamental human rights and constitutes a grave abuse of one person’s power over another. Compared to some other European countries, the awareness of the professional and lay public about this form of violence remains relatively low. While significant steps have been taken in the last decade to address and prevent domestic violence, in particular through the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Violence in 2008. In 2015, as we have already heard from the Minister, a broad interdepartmental working group has been formed, including representatives of the family violence departments, as well as representatives of operators, courts and many non-governmental organisations. The aim of this group was to examine the experience with the implementation of the law and to draw up those proposals for the amendment of the law, thereby improving the functioning of the institutions in dealing with domestic violence, and in particular in the interest of protecting victims. The key objective of the bill is to complement and more precisely regulate those provisions that have proved to be ineffective so far. In a debate that was very broad and also turbulent at times, advocates supporting the proposal of the law in the majority stressed the importance of prevention and expressed themselves as zero tolerance to violence. Non-governmental organisations considered the proposed amendments to be good and a step in the right direction, since clear and uniform rules of procedure are of paramount importance in individual cases for the protection of the victim. They also support provisions relating to enhanced education of experts in individual institutions and courts, the extension of the definition of violence, the extension of the definition of family members and members, and the prohibition of corporal punishment of children whom they consider necessary. It was pointed out that they were actively involved in the preparation of the novel and that many of their proposals were also actually adopted. They felt that more protection should also be given to members of vulnerable target groups such as Roma, migrants, same-sex-oriented and similar. In practice, there are problems with information about what is happening to the victim. Free legal assistance would be required for all victim protection procedures. Training of judges, judges and so on is also essential. Some discussers felt that the provisions of the proposed law were not appropriate and opposed and stressed that violence should be properly and clearly defined. They felt that the proposed definition did not provide for the safety of parents who, in their opinion, did not permissively raise their children. In doing so, each family can be subjected to excessive social control. Most discussers disagreed with such definitions, as the primary purpose of the new provisions is to guide and raise a child without physical violence, not to punish parents. It was also explicitly explained that the emphasis was on banning the abuse of parental power, not on the implementation of the parental role. We voted on this and also adopted some of the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and rejected the amendments of the group of unrelated Members. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of the report which you have also received from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Prickle. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word, the Group of the Party of the Modern Center, for her mag. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u58	Honourable Vice-President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today is the first novel of the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. The law, which was adopted only in 2008, did bring a number of positive developments in the area of family violence despite relatively late adoption. Thus, the 2008 law already defined domestic violence and clearly defined various types of domestic violence. It has also identified the role, tasks and participation of various national authorities and NGOs in dealing with violence and identified measures to protect and protect victims. In particular, it has identified measures to protect the most vulnerable social groups – people with disabilities, older persons with different barriers and children. The novelty that we are considering today, however, brings improvements to the current law, in the provisions that have proved to be flawed in practice. The proposal before us thus contains some more important solutions, such as extending the concept of family so that the list of persons considered to be family members is covered by all persons who exist or exist a closer emotional link that the perpetrator of violence uses to abuse power over another person. In addition to physical, sexual, and psychological violence, economic violence, stalking and neglect are particularly complemented, and an even more receptive solution is added, this is a ban on corporal punishment of children. The following solutions are also important in the area of prevention: the extended duty to report violence also to persons who, due to personal circumstances, are unable to take care of themselves, the prohibition of the compulsory use of alternative forms of dispute resolution, the mandatory protection of children against public exposure, the provision of the safety of the victim when entering the apartment, so that he can take the necessary measures to ensure basic life needs, the upgrade of the solution to leave the apartment exclusively to the use of the victim and the different duration of the measure in relation to property ownership. Novela also requires reporting of violence to content providers for children in sports and cultural associations. However, two aspects need to be highlighted in addressing the problem of domestic violence. One is the formal legal or legal provisions that aim to achieve the desired effect in practice, the other is the actual implementation of the law. If we have mentioned new provisions so far, we must stress that these too could not be optimally implemented without the proper cooperation of state authorities and civil society. Non-governmental organisations have undoubtedly an important role to play in the area under consideration. Their voice is the voice of the victims of violence, so I am pleased that the comments of non-governmental organisations have been more meaningfully included in the proposal that we are considering today. It must be realized, however, that only by adopting laws will we not take a step forward. Today, we are not just talking about the fact that as a society, we must not tolerate torture, torture, survival and other violence among people, especially children. We also talk about the fact that our social problem is also ignorance, passivity, blindness, misinterpretation, and misinterpretation when violence occurs. Complementary to the law are therefore various campaigns on prevention and awareness of people, empowering victims and active citizenship. The proposal for a new Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence brings positive developments in the area of domestic violence prevention, so we will support it in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. Zinc. Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law that has some good solutions, but we cannot support it in the SDS Group, because it allows national authorities to become overly and unforeseeablely involved in family relations and relations, which we are already used to by Minister Anje Copač Dark. In the SDS, we defend the view that the family is the fundamental cell of society, that the world and the state have no right to intervene and regulate it. To that end, last December you were also told by the citizens at the referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. With regard to this law, which is before us today, it should be pointed out that the current law was adopted for the first time during the first government of Janez Janša, and the number of registered cases of domestic violence fell after its adoption. In the SDS, we support some solutions, such as the protection of data on the accommodation of the victim and her children and other measures to protect them. We also support the precise definition of the content of education for professional workers and the establishment of compulsory training for judges and prosecutors. There are also some other measures that represent at least an attempt to improve the situation in the area of family violence. The main problem that we see in the bill, which we cannot support, is that it gives centres for social work and other institutions too much power to intervene and interfere with family relations in the area of education. The law defines so-called physical and psychological violence so that both concepts are so widely defined that almost everything can fall under it. Such a definition, however, implies arbitrary decision-making on individual cases, and it is not possible to expect some uniform practice from this point of view in order to know at all what is prohibited and what is not. In addition, the law prohibits corporal punishment or such punishment is tantamount to the abuse and suffering of children. Of course, we condemn any abuse of children most severely, but we must bear in mind that child abuse and torture are already prohibited under the Penal Code, so we do not see any need to prohibit corporal punishment or any physical contact with a child who is intended for solely education. The ban on corporal punishment was also one of the reasons why the family code fell at the referendum in 2012. It is therefore a matter of reenactment of what the people have rejected. Because of everything listed in the SDS law, which we sincerely hope is the last one prepared by the current minister, we will not support, nor will we oppose.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Members, Members and others present! In the DeSUS Group, we support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. Domestic violence is a hot and highly sensitive topic, as it is a violation of fundamental human rights, and this general social problem therefore requires a lot of attention and caution and the treatment of different stakeholders in the domestic violence process. On the one hand, there is a victim of violence that needs to be protected and helped, on the other hand, we have a cause of violence that has to bear the consequences of its conduct. At the same time, it is not possible to ignore the necessary training of the perpetrators of violence. Then there are authorities here that are asked whether they are doing enough or whatever it takes to make the act of violence openly and appropriately addressed. An important segment governing this area is the legal regulation of this area, which raises questions or even indications that either too much or too little is involved in the event between the four walls. It is also very important to realize that the Law on the Prevention of Violence is not a separate law that solves in itself all specific situations and violence. It should be viewed in conjunction with the Penal Code and the Marriage and Family Relations Act. What do the statistics on violence mean or tell us? According to the police, the number of reports related to domestic violence has declined over the last five years, with the exception of 2014, but because of the non-reporting of violence, the real picture may be slightly different from that shown by statistics that mainly report violence to the police and deal with acts before the courts. In addition to the police, the problems of violence are also addressed by social work centres and other institutions. There is too much violence against women and children, and there is too much violence against older people who are also among the most vulnerable in society. The most painful for the elderly is violence in the family, which is often not reported by relatives and victims because they are either ashamed of being beaten by their own children or afraid of being avenged or unaware of where to turn for help. And while under the age of 50 the most frequent victims of violence are women, this percentage also increases in men over 50 years. Domestic violence against the elderly is committed either by partners or by children or by other relatives. However, it involves physical or economic violence, such as the collection of pensions, forced transfer of property, then we have psychological violence, such as the isolation of others, and sexual violence. While the punishments on the elderly are declining, there is still a need to work harder on self - defense. Thus, there is a lack of sensitivity to all forms of violence occurring among people. We must ask ourselves how much has been said in the past about this problem, how many times have the victims of violence in the past sought help or reported acts compared to today's. It is evident that violence is too much, and on the other hand, what is good is more said about it today. It is good that with increased media, professional and political attention, domestic violence has become a recognized social problem. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with zero tolerance for violence in our society. In order to establish this, the public needs to be systematically and systematically sensitized to the problem of domestic violence. Working against violence is the shared responsibility of the whole society, which must ensure that violence prevention and treatment policies are properly developed. In the DeSUS Group, we assessed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence as a step in the right direction, as it introduces changes and additions in precisely those areas that have proven to be under-completed so far. That is why we will support the proposal in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Bizjak Mlakar. The position of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Marija Bacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The novel we are dealing with today is being upgraded by the 2008 law, when we brought this issue together under one roof and, at the same time, in the Code of Penalties, stated that it was a crime. The law defines domestic violence and clearly defines the different types of violence, while at the same time defining the role, tasks and participation of different national authorities and NGOs in dealing with domestic violence and identifying measures to protect and protect victims of domestic violence. The law specifically protects the most vulnerable social groups, including people with disabilities, the elderly, persons with different barriers and children. The Ministry of the Interior is optimistic that since 2008, the number of cases of domestic violence has continued to decline, but there is still too much violence. The results of the national survey show that 90.8% of the perpetrators of violence are men and that the victims are in the vast majority of women. Data analysis shows that every other woman in Slovenia experienced one form of violence by the age of 15. The most common were mental violence, then physical, material, movement restrictions, and sexual violence. Domestic violence is thus a general social problem because it interferes with fundamental human rights and constitutes a grave abuse of one person’s power over another. Otherwise it becomes a recognized social problem, but yet we are still too tolerant of this form of violence in our society in the sense that it does not concern us that it is not our business. But the fact is that action against such violence is the shared responsibility of the whole society, and any individual and all individual who can prevent such violence is more likely to remain silent. The purpose of the novel is therefore to improve and modernise the law in a way that will further protect the victims of domestic violence and prevent further abuses. The amendments to the legislation therefore relate in particular to complementing the definition of domestic violence, extending the definition of family members, extending judicial measures, prohibiting corporal punishment of children and so on. Most of the violence occurs in the family, in a marital or extramarital relationship between the four walls, but with the doors pierced. In most cases, everyone knows everything and more, but unfortunately nobody does. Violence against women and domestic violence are still taboos and society still acts as if this is just a matter of concerned individuals. But the problem goes beyond sex, religion, culture, age, education, beyond social position, sexual orientation and physical limitations. It is much more than just what we have reduced in modern society by turning sides, this contemptible act. It raises the issue of security and fundamental human rights, which the State is obliged to protect, so there is no and there is no way that it can be a private matter for individuals. Violence makes us deaf and blind, full of excuses, "take care of yourself" until it is often too late for those who have been denied the help we need and turned our backs on them. Victims of violence do not report because they are either ashamed or afraid of further violence or that no one will believe them. The statistics available show a shocking picture of the social and health consequences. I hope to say that official statistics are only a drop into the sea of reality. NGOs in Slovenia estimate that violence is present in every 5 families in Slovenia, that every 7 women have been raped and only 5% of all women with experience of violence are seeking any help. However, our failure to act and turn sides to this course gives comfort and makes it socially acceptable. Likewise, attempts to banalize this problem by scaring people into everything that is generally accepted as a normal way of education. For example, if a child has to participate in household chores that are appropriate for his or her age. Such a debate is intended only to shed light on the real problem, which is domestic violence. Your Honor, there's enough black statistics, enough trouble for your wife and children, enough shivering. Social Democrats welcome this novel and we will also support it unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria Bachič. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left we will support this law. Under normal circumstances, the prohibition of corporal punishment of children would be self-evident; it was a post-natal standard for the humanisation of children's upbringing. A ban does not mean that we must not physically intervene if there is a danger of injury. Nor does it mean that social inspection will spy on families. It's just a reference to parents, educators, everyone who comes in contact with children. The Ombudsman made a good comparison: "Today it is totally unacceptable for the superior to discipline the subordinate with a slap. Why is it so highly controversial for some to ban the corporal punishment of children?" The consideration of the law on the committee will be remembered after the performances of the representative of the Aleš Primac movement. We have listened to absurd stories that children will report to their parents' social work centres in order to avoid having to do their tasks. The method of argument was the same as in April when the Protection against Discrimination Act was adopted. At the time, women were told that the ban on sexual harassment would be used to make divorce easier. In both cases, the tactics of American neoconservatives, who advocate gloomyness, have been used to hide themselves for the right to personal freedom. In normal circumstances, this could be ridiculous, but it's not in our situation. According to available data, 80% of the victims of domestic violence are women and 99% are men. In our society, there is still a high tolerance for family violence and degrading treatment of women and children, and there is really nothing spontaneous about it. They are increasingly raising their heads, a variety of civil movements that not only advocate patriarchal values, but they want to impose them as a standard on society as a whole. It's not that they were against free parenting, abortion, or same-sex weddings. After all, no one forces them. On the contrary, they want to deprive their fellow citizens and fellow citizens of their right to marry an same-sex partner or to have an abortion in extreme circumstances. This, of course, destroys fundamental civilisational gains, and this is where our tolerance must end. The proposed law strengthens the repressive and educational measures in the field of domestic violence prevention and cannot eliminate the high tolerance of neglect of women and other vulnerable groups. We can only act against this if we are consistently committed to all those who are the most frequent victims of violence. Part of these measures is also the separation of state authorities from movements that openly oppose our civilisation gains. There's no living out of ideas, their carriers need material support. The main source of patriarchal values in our society is the Roman Catholic Church. Her views are as strong as this church is strong. The RCC is not enough to absorb more than 10,000 hectares of state forests; at a time when we still have almost 290,000 poor, the management of the dioceses and ranks requires millions more compensation. While we pay high interest on public debt, which is also due to fraud of church funds, the management of the RCC is not ashamed to demand further interest on damages. Citizens for priests of the RCC we pay social contributions and in thanks we get a propaganda board against the right to abortion and agitation against the rights of the same-sex people. At the same time, when the RCC is in charge of recapitalising the company, the state's top representatives, including the President of the National Assembly, do not miss a single mass for the country. Blessing public hospitals, schools, roads is practically part of the state protocol. The Slovenian Army employs Catholic priests. The political class allows the RDC to adopt the position of the State Church, at least in practice. When adopting this positive legal amendment, I therefore point out that legislation cannot have any broader effects as long as the state authorities remain literally aligned with the carriers of retroactive ideas. And there is no more backward institution in Slovenian society than the Roman Catholic Church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u67	I am thinking about what to say in view of the fact that the Roman Catholic Church is certainly not the basic objective of the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. I would also ask the rest of us to stick to the subject that we are discussing today. On the other hand, when it comes to the use of untrue data on the participation of all, I stress all such events. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u68	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence is one of the more controversial laws of this Government and Minister Kopač Mrakova in the year to come. He raised a lot of dust and opposition mainly in relevant civil society organisations dealing with child rearing and support for family life and, on the other hand, moderate support for organisations dealing with the detection of domestic violence and the assistance of victims of domestic violence who are mostly women and children. In New Slovenia we are advocates of non-violent education, i.e. zero tolerance for violence, but we are also advocates of as little legislation as possible. The key question that we have asked ourselves when we consider this bill is whether this law will reduce domestic violence. After a number of professional and other public meetings, we can say that unfortunately not. The proponents come from a misleading assumption that the law can regulate every detail of our lives. In a large number of cases they are not responsible and will not be able to be sufficiently objective in the proceedings. The family is the foundation of the cell of society and in Nova Slovenija we believe that the country has too much interference with it from all sides. There is no emphasis in the law on prevention and education, education for quality relationships, and there is nothing about educating parents in the direction of supporting them in raising children. We are asked whether the family is even a free cell and whether the state is above it. If it is above it, it must also be fully responsible for its survival. I have to ask you again, Minister, does the state of economic violence against its citizens not, even after you took away their state pension and protective allowances in 2012, have you turned them into a revolving category? How should older ones, especially widows, survive with low incomes? Or working families with minimum wages, who still have to go to the Red Cross and Karitas for help? In the view of New Slovenia, more resources need to be invested in prevention and the promotion of non-violent education, responsible and compassionate parenthood as a therapy, while taking care of crimes exclusively as a state. How much in Slovenia is education for non-violence and healthy relations? Stop funding meaningless programs and support both therapy and integrated family programmes that the Ministry strictly misses. What are the measures to ensure good reconciliation between work and family life? So that the children could spend more time with their parents. This is how they spend all day in institutions where teachers and teachers work hard and cannot replace their parents in any way. We welcome, however, some and some of the proposed measures against abusers, which at least partially address this problem. For regardless of what is written in the laws and proposals and private proceedings in the courts, the victims feel deceived. They have been deprived of their human dignity. In doing so, I must mention that CSDs lack an institution to instruct parents to participate in various treatments, therapy, parental schools, social skills learning and the like. And we could get him through this marriage. Social work centres are actually the first entry point in violence and with these powers they would have the opportunity to work more effectively in the direction of solving the pressures of victims, not even children, but unfortunately they are not in law. In support of education without physical violence, the ruling ideology has one very problematic issue — the absence of punishment in general or the denial of punishment at all. This holding is deeply anti-human and in fact denies some fundamental anthropological facts. Permissive education is not the answer to the needs of the child, which we can already see in some countries where they have decided to do so. Generations that grow from such education are ideal consumers, narcissists, egoists and corporations who can manage them very well. In this country, we lack healthy farmers. It is not in this law either, so Members of New Slovenia cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u69	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u70	President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice greeting! In our parliamentary group, we support the amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. It's an important marriage, but it seems to be treated as if it's something marginal. In the Alliance, we have already pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which referred to our initiative, the need to reduce the excessive tolerance of society to violence and the need to ensure that family violence is detected as early as possible. We have already made it very clear that preventive forms of work should be provided with women and children and their families in order to identify violence in a timely manner and respond accordingly. We have also pointed out at this meeting that effective and appropriate sanctioning of abusers should be ensured in such a way as to ensure that the consequences of their actions are borne by themselves, not by victims or by relatives. If we look at it chronologically. In 2009, the National Assembly adopted a resolution on a national programme for the prevention of domestic violence setting out the objectives, measures and key policy holders for the prevention and reduction of domestic violence. Slovenia is also a co-signatory of virtually all major declarations, conventions and agreements dealing with domestic violence. Despite all the above facts, we are only dealing with a government novelty now. More! Unfortunately for us, the novel has not been given a general discussion, which grieves us. But luckily, on the previous parental committee, it was unanimously agreed that zero tolerance should be cultivated until violence. Late, but better now than never. I would like to draw particular attention to the importance of including social work centres. The Novela suggests that it should be established that the Centre for Social Work should deal with cases of violence where the child is a victim of child violence, particularly when children are suspected of sexual abuse. Therefore, for the greater safety of the victim, it should be added that the Centre for Social Work, at the request of the victim, may obtain information on the free exits, the possible escape from the prison sentence and the envisaged date of release of the convicts. The current practice has also shown that in cases where the centre for social work of the perpetrators of violence is required to go to appropriate social, educational, psychosocial or health programmes, the perpetrators of violence are not involved. According to our assessment, the programmes for perpetrators should be mandatory. More! The cost of participation should also be borne by the perpetrator himself, if he can, of course. Therefore, I reiterate my appeal to the Government that one of the main forms of prevention or timely re-education of the abuser must be. It is also essential, according to our assessment, that a violent person be removed from the scene of violence immediately. This will ensure greater security and protection for the victims of these and potential children. Therefore, we are glad to have a law on the table that deals even more with violence. It is, however, a fact that the law could be better prepared and even more acute than the proposal could cut into violence and, above all, to prevent it. At the end of the day, all I want to say is that I want Slovenia to be a country where there would be no violence at all. And we'll talk more about it. There'll be more awareness that violence is unacceptable. Courageous are those who talk publicly about their bad experiences and thus help those who somehow do not hope, do not know, cannot get out of the vicious cycle of violence. Especially when it comes to public and exposed people. That is why I thank them from this city for their courage to speak publicly about it. With this amendment of the law, we are on the right track, according to our assessment. But, as I've already said, we should take a sharper stand against the bullies. We tried to solve all of this on the parental committee or add amendments, and unfortunately, the coalition hit us. But in any case, it will also be possible to supplement the marriage and make it even better. As I said at the outset, the law has the support of Members of our Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u71	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the illegal possession of murder funds in the possession of former members of the State Security Service. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to sign. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Authority recommends to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee of Mrs Janji Slug for further explanation of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much. At its 42nd emergency meeting on 26 September, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposal for a recommendation as a working body. In an additional explanation, the representative said that it had been quite a while since the European Parliament adopted a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which specifically drew attention to the issue of former secret services. The Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission has already discussed and warned the Government that there are around 7,000 weapons in Slovenia from the period of operation of the former State Security Service and is in illegal possession of its former employees or co-workers. The KNOVS addressed this issue on the basis of the official archival documents submitted from the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia. The applicant pointed out that all traces of these weapons were lost. He claimed that there were precise lists which the KNOVS had also forwarded to the competent authorities. He further detailed the example of the shooting in Isola, which raises the question of the origin of the weapon used. Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar stated that the Government shall ensure with all due care the highest possible level of security in the country, with the authorities having to verify all information on the security-related issues, including the existence and possession of alleged killings by the former State Security Service. If there is sufficient level of suspicion of the service of a crime or of the threat of human security and property, the State authorities shall act without delay, of course in compliance with the rules and the legality of the profession. She stressed that the police had examined all KNOVS initiatives and found that sufficient legal and professional standards were not provided for initiating investigative procedures. The investigation of the events at Izola General Hospital has not yet been completed and any linkage of this case to the proposal has been premature to discuss. If there is sufficient level of suspicion that, in addition to the deceased, third parties are responsible for the illegal possession of weapons, all relevant procedures will be initiated against them. The police and the Ministry of the Interior checked whether the perpetrator had ever been employed by the internal affairs authorities and found that the person in the records of former employees was not kept. However, data on the back-up of the militia before independence do not fall within the purview of the MNZ. With regard to the weapons used by the perpetrator, the police found that it was designed for the civilian market and the current activities concerned the identification of the origin of both weapons, including the one obtained by the police from the perpetrator's home, while there are currently no indications that they were official weapons of the former State Security Service. The Minister said that the Government rejects the recommendation as inappropriate and unnecessary, as all legal activities to detect, investigate and prevent any negative consequences of any illegal possession of weapons and explosives or of hazardous substances are being and are still carried out. Deputy Director-General of Police, Mag. Tanja Bobnar said that the Criminal Procedure Act lays down the obligations and duties of the Attorney General, who directs the police in all acts in the pre-trial procedure. In view of the documentation obtained from KNOVS on 8 April 2016, the police provided an answer explaining that, despite the calls, no material could be provided to the police, which could give rise to reasonable grounds for suspicion. This is the evidentiary standard and the basis for the issuing of a court order on house investigations of alleged facilities where the alleged homicides of the former State Security Service are to be kept. In the substantive debate following the proposal for a decision on inadequacy, members of the opposition stressed that the proposals under consideration were recommendations for an important issue which no one has systematically addressed in Slovenia alone, not law enforcement. It has been heard, however, that the accompanying material, which is largely composed of newspaper articles and selected extracts of magnetograms and insufficient archival materials, is not sufficient to address the act of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted a decision following the discussion: "The proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the illegal possession of both assets held by former members of the State Security Service is not suitable for further consideration." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u73	I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Branku Grims for the opening presentation of his position on the proposal of his mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u74	Your Honor! Good-bye to all of you! Of course, I am a representative of the proponents, I do not represent the parent's working body, as has been said so far. What we have wanted is to ensure human security; the fundamental good that this government and its coalition want to forget. In some cases from the political account – for example, when it came to the issue of migrants last fall – and secondly because of history that would reveal a lot of things. But do you know what Havel once said? "A people who don't know their history or who isn't ready to face their history has no future." And tragically, this has also proved to be true in the events in Isola. That's where a man died. A doctor was shot. A police officer was shot. However, this was done by a former member of the State Security Service, as it was said to do or after a home Bible study. These members were in Slovenia and there are still thousands. This in itself is a problem, for on the incomes of Isolah it was seen that some among them were undoubtedly trained to be murderers, that they were virtually unconscious, for the method of execution was completely incomprehensible to the common man. A doctor who had already been shot and fell to the ground was then killed by a close-up shot to the back of the head. That's how we read it in the media. The official report is still not available today, as far as I know, although at the meeting where we have discussed it, it has been said that the investigation has already been completed. It is not true that an investigation is taking place; already a month ago, when we had a meeting of the commission dealing with it, it was said that the investigation was concluded that it was just waiting for an expert opinion on weapons. Nothing else. This weapons expertise can show you what? Not quite, because it was a weapon with de-labelled markings, and I guess very well removed markings, where, according to some indirect signs, as it was said there, it was being searched and probably the expertise would go this way, but I didn't have a chance to see that it would be said that it was a weapon for the civilian market. Does that really mean anything? It means nothing, ladies and gentlemen. For if you read carefully the documents that were attached to what we sent to the Assembly of State, you would see how the former Uriah purchased weapons. Only on the basis of the criterion, or that it was purchased for the civil market and then obtained in such a way as to cover up its origin as much as possible, or directly procured it in companies and then removed the markings, beaten them, overlaid them, in such a way as to cover up the origin of the weapon, by which they followed an interesting rule — that for killings abroad, because it was a purely ordinary murder organization, the Constitutional Court also stated repeatedly in its judgements, in short for the most cruel killings abroad, they used weapons of foreign origin, also apparently in order to better hide the origin or the perpetrator. When it came to killings on the ground of the former Yugoslavia, for example in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, weapons of Yugoslav origin were used as a rule. This was also used by the perpetrator in Isolah, a 7.65 caliber product, after reporting the Red Flag media. Coincidence? Sorry, I don't believe in coincidence. And then luckily, the cops were so self-sustaining and the real estate owner was so responsible that they went into his apartment and they found Thompson's machine gun. There seems to be another piece of weapons that could lead to a significant number of crimes. Interestingly, however, the judge did not find it worth ordering a house investigation to take the view that it was unnecessary because the perpetrator was already dead. Did he want to give anyone time to remove any evidence, say any machine gun Thompson, or was it anything else, I leave your interpretation. However, what is indisputable and identified by the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services is as follows. In the wake of the break-up, the transition from undemocratic totalitarian totalitarianism to a democratic system and later the independence of the Republic of Slovenia was never handed over to anyone or the commission destroyed weapons of the former Udba. According to the available lists, which are authentic documents stored in the archives of the Republic of Slovenia, and we also sent copies of them to the competent authorities of the commission, there were about 7,000 pieces of explosives, incendiary bombs, machine guns, silencers, short-term weapons with silencers, sniper rifles, and then various more covert means of murder, such as various needles filled with poisons, and anything similar criminal arsenals used by the former Ascension. Just because mines, explosives, incendiary bombs that can cause extremely severe damage are among these pieces should be an alarm sign and an appropriate investigation should be carried out. This investigation would not be as difficult as it would like to emphasize, for there is also a list of bunkers of the former Udba. For a large part of its weapons, as well as the other means it needed, hid in bunkers that were in various parts of Slovenian territory, and part of them abroad. And that these bunkers still exist, it has not turned out in Slovenia, because in Slovenia, you will not believe, despite the materials presented, the criminal police have put themselves in a position that you can check in the video of the public meeting so that they will not deal with it. That's an exact quote. And they're doing it abroad. In a foreign country, mustache is tried, now is tried abroad, or should be tried by Silva Gorencu and some others, and abroad, most importantly in this case, investigations into the weapons of the former Udba are also carried out. And so, in this context, an entire bunker full of all kinds of material was found in Austria’s Koroška a few years ago. This is said not only to have a list of these bunkers, not only that there are indisputably bunkers in Slovenia – even in Slovenia one of the two opened up, but they were empty – but there are still full bunkers, which is very interesting data. It is important to know that according to the list of these bunkers, which is also in the archive, some bunkers have been mined — and according to the data related to them. And now imagine what would happen if in one of these facilities, which our crime police apparently have no intention of investigating, one child accidentally finds one of these hidden bunkers and triggers a mine. The amount of explosives in these bunkers, I had a chance years ago to look myself in the eye. Because in Kranj many years ago, they hit the former police. And something very funny happened in that regard, which would have extremely serious consequences. When they physically demolished the former police building, which was in fact made up of two united buildings, it turned out that there was a bunker hidden in another building, an apparent weapon of the former Udba, although no one ever said it out loud. They found inside what Gorenski voice then reported, if memory doesn't deceive me, about 8 tons of explosive weapons, and I don't know how many machine guns and I don't know what else. But some of that material I even had a chance to see when I accidentally passed, that was huge. If that thing were to go off then, it would blow up the whole Kranj center. The problem of why this could have happened is, in my opinion, very simple. These things were conspirative. And the police didn't know there was another warehouse in the same building. Someone else knew, but by chance he wasn't informed that they were planning to tear down the building, and there would be a tragedy soon. But these things still exist somewhere. They could have emptied the bunkers by now. Probably not all of them, but one part sure, because two of them were found empty. And then this weapon sure ended up on the black market. And if someone today says that the weapon used to kill is similar to the one used by the former Ascension, but it's from the black market, man doesn't know if he'd laugh or cry. For it is evident that it is there, because someone has not done his work which he should according to the law. And someone should be responsible for that. In Slovenia, still undisputedly documented at this point, there are 7,000 pieces of weapons, killings, including mines of great power, of incendiary bombs lying somewhere, probably held by someone. They have certainly not been destroyed, they have certainly not been used, they have certainly never been preceded by the competent institutions, which they should otherwise have been. On the Commission, we checked all these data several times, and we also asked the competent institutions in writing and those individuals who, at the crucial moments of the regime's break-up, occupied the key cities of democracy in Slovenia. The single response of those who were previously in position and those who were later and institutions was "never handed over a single piece". According to records in the archive, of course, it is clear that it was customary for members of the former SDV to carry their personal weapons home. Since this weapon has not been officially introduced, of course it does not have a permit and is essentially an illegal weapon, unless it has been legalized in one way or another, as far as possible. This means that all of this represents a permanent and clearly documented source of risk to life, safety, human health in the Republic of Slovenia. And for those who should examine it, all the documents presented do not suffice. They said, "we won't deal with it." Then there was a murder in Isola, and then there was another murder, or legal weapon, in Ajdovščina. And even there, you won't believe the one who shot turned out to be seduced as a former co-worker of the Judgment, except that this one had a weapon as legal as self-defense, because he was once thought to be a jeweler. But interestingly enough, I know the case of someone who has a gun dealership in an area where there's a lot of interest in it, and one would say that he's potentially at risk, and the administrative unit never gave him a permit to carry a security weapon. This one had it, and he didn't have the jewelry store anymore. So he didn't have any more conditions for having this weapon as self-defense because he didn't need it anymore. When there is no more reason, by law we should simply withdraw his permission or at least revoke his license to carry, then you can have possession, which is interesting information. In short, there are again clearly double criteria for all ordinary citizens and some other criteria for former Udba agents. And because of all this, ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed that the National Assembly should recommend to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to take immediate measures to ensure the detection of chemical and other means of mass and secret extermination with which the SDV has been proven to have been made available and which, at the time of the change in the regime of May 1990, were not handed over to the democratically elected government or to the competent authorities in the composition, nor were the Commission destroyed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should immediately take all necessary measures to prevent the general danger posed by the illegal possession of a large amount of funds for mass and secret killings. Secondly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take immediate measures to ensure that persons who are responsible in the police and other state authorities are relieved of the fact that the existence of these killings has not been investigated at the first warning and that the funds and/or persons who are or are still at their disposal have not been identified. When the death of a police officer occurred, when a doctor was killed, the coalition concluded that this was not appropriate for further consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, most of you can vote for anything. It can also make the sky green and grass blue. But the truth won't make any difference. You're jeopardizing people's lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u75	I also give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Šefić, to present my position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u76	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Members and Members, in its recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, proposes that all necessary measures should be taken without delay to address the alleged general threat posed by the illegal killings of the former State Security Service and its use, which it is the view of the proponents to be linked to the case of a shooting at the General Hospital of Izola and to ensure that, within their competences, persons in the State authorities responsible for the detection of these funds or at least to the hearing of the persons responsible for their deployment do not take place. In fact, today I can only point out once again what has already been exposed at the Committee's meeting and what has been summarised also in the introduction by the rapporteur, Vice-President of the Committee. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has rejected the recommendations of the applicants in a reasoned manner as inappropriate and, of course, unnecessary, as all legal activities are and are still being carried out to detect, investigate and prevent any negative consequences of any illegal possession of weapons, explosives or the existence of stockpiles of dangerous substances. Last but not least, there is a debate on the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the alleged illegal possession of murder funds held by former members of the State Security Service at its 42nd emergency meeting. 9. 2016 also carried out by the Committee of the National Assembly and, of course, adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a recommendation was not suitable for further consideration. The Ministry of the Interior and the Government shall ensure with all due care and responsibility the highest possible level of security in the country, with the authorities having to verify all information on the security-related issues, including the existence and possession of alleged killings by the former State Security Service. If there is sufficient level of suspicion of the commission of a crime or of the threat of human security and property, the State authorities shall act without delay and shall be committed to respect for the legality. In the event of suspected weapons and murder, all the circumstances and available documentation were examined by the State Security Service and it was found that there were no sufficient legal or professional standards for initiating investigations. These findings were also communicated to the State Prosecutor's Office by the police. The investigation into the murder of a doctor and a police officer and the attempted murder of another police officer at the General Hospital of Izola has not yet been completed, which was also highlighted at the meeting of the committee, so any link between this case and the recommendation of Members and Members is premature to speak. With regard to the hypothesis that the perpetrator was a former official of the State Security Service, it was undoubtedly only found that the person was deployed to the reserve militia and that in 1981 he owed parts of the uniform and equipment. The possibility that the reserve militia was allocated to a battalion for which the State Security Service was also responsible could not be excluded, but there is no indication from the documents available that this could in any way be linked to the so-called secret bunkers of the State Security Service. With regard to the weapons used for the double murder at Izola General Hospital, the police have so far found that it was most likely made for the civilian market, since military or police weapons were generally marked differently. The source of these weapons and automatic weapons found in the perpetrator's residence is also identified by the police, and so far there are no Indicians to be involved in the service of the former State Security Service. When and if there is sufficient level of suspicion that, in addition to the deceased, third parties are responsible for the illegal possession of weapons, all relevant procedures, including the possible discharge of those responsible in the State authorities, will be initiated against them. However, for the time being, no suspension of the duties of the responsible persons has been found to allow or make it difficult for that investigation activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u77	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you for saying so, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia you can have weapons in legal possession if you are a member of the Sagittarius Association of Slovenia, if you are a member of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, if you are life-threatening, for self-defense, etc. And you can have it illegally, and you're not being chased if you're a former member of the State Security Service. All those who possess weapons legally at home must be members of one of the organisations mentioned above, either the Hunting Association or the Sagittarius Association, have to carry out a medical examination, have to carry out a weapons handling test. Before they obtain a firearm, they must obtain a permit on the administrative units for the purchase of weapons, and after they have obtained such a permit, they shall go to a store selling weapons, buy weapons there, go back to the administrative unit with weapons and with a purchase permit duly completed. There, on the window, a staff member of the administrative unit examines the weapons, sees what the CIP code is, how it's with traceability, writes it all down, and only then can you get a gun permit so you can have a weapon in your possession, you can keep it, you can have it as a collector, and then, if you have a permit to do so, you can carry it and you can carry it. It's two different concepts. In short, the legislation on weapons for those who wish to have them in legal possession is strict enough for us. Finally, we agreed with all Members and Members at the beginning of this year when, at the request of the SDS Group of Members, we had an urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs where we addressed the proposed proposal for a regulation of the European Commission concerning new restrictive measures to prevent terrorism, according to them, which related to the legal market. This is said to be the measures proposed by the European Commission, which are supposed to be said to be frozen, at least for the time being, due to a violent response that we have witnessed not only in Slovenia but also in other Member States of the European Union. And so it is, because the regulation they have drawn up does not specifically affect the illicit arms market, but introduces restrictions on those who have weapons legally at home. No terrorist attack in recent months, in the last two years we have witnessed in Europe, has occurred with legal weapons. These terrorist attacks have taken place with illegal weapons, which have also come to the European Union — for example, for the case of France — along the Balkan smuggling route. In particular, the weapons used in the wars that broke down Yugoslavia are not traceable in any way and there was no proposal to restrict this black market in any way. However, there is also an illegal weapon, which to some extent is traceable, and this is the weapon of former members of the State Security Service. Why am I saying that to some extent it's traceable? Because of these approximately 7,000 pieces — as many as there are documents — there is evidence that these weapons have been purchased, there are signatures of the responsible persons who have ordered these weapons to be bought; these people are still alive today, and there are many documents that testify to this and contain all the exact locations, plans and so on, as has been the construction of depots for the storage of these weapons. We don't know if the weapons are actually in these depots and we don't know where these weapons are, but there is a reasonable suspicion based on the documents created by those who bought these weapons, who ordered the purchase of these weapons, who ordered the construction of these bunkers or warehouses to store these weapons, there is a reasonable suspicion that this is somewhere and that it exists. And the minimum thing we would expect now, when these documents were also presented to the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, is that the police would go according to these documents from address to address, knock on the door and ask, "Is there a depot here to show if we can see?" or if the decision doesn't have "or we can look" but "we will look." Instead of doing this to the police, we witnessed in the media in one of the two cases that went one of the independent researchers involved, along with the press team, and in one case when he knocked on his door they just opened up to him, they let him go in and they showed him; this depot was actually there, but it was empty. Whether there was a weapon or not, we don't know it, the owner of this building didn't say it, but it's not the task of some individual researchers, it's the task of the police. If the police can walk on hunting mats in October and November on Saturdays and Sundays, they control the weapons, whether the CIP code is in line with that gun leaf or not, they pass fines, take away weapons, expect them to do something during the week in an area where it's really dangerous. It's controlled by hunters, it's controlled by sports shooters who have all the weapons handling tests that have the right medical explanations, who know how many pieces of weapons they keep at home in accordance with the rules, that's what they say locked up in the vault, here's where control is – but I'm not saying it shouldn't be, it's right – where there's a reasonable suspicion that someone has a weapon in illegal possession, that these deposits are inadequately prepared to store weapons, and the police are not going there. It is obvious that the police here are protecting someone that those who were members of the most repressive body in the previous regime are still protected and that no proceedings are being brought against them, not otherwise or otherwise. What happened in Isola is not a lonely case. Then we witnessed the shooting in Aidovska. In the first case it was an illegal possession of a weapon, but in the second, it was a common article that both shooters were former members of the State Security Service. I doubt these people have done any weapons-handling test — for the one they have — but it was enough to have you on a list. When the Demos government swore and took over business in mid - May, this weapon was not committed. When we asked Sovo, who is the formal successor of the former State Security Service, they said that these weapons were not handed over to them. When we asked the police, they also said that this weapon was not committed. There are no pre-delivery records anywhere, but in recent months, there have been documents showing that weapons have been purchased, in this case 7,000 pieces, but we don't know where these weapons are. And if we had some serious police force, if we had some serious intelligence, we'd do anything to get this weapon, because this weapon represents a real threat and endangers human lives. As my colleague Grimes said earlier, they found a depot in Austria a while ago where these weapons were. We also heard the case from Kranj. These deposits, as documented, were also built along the border with the Republic of Austria, and one would expect to follow these documents and see if the depot is really there or the depot is not there, whether there is a weapon or a weapon in it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not claim that the depots are built where they should be based on these documents and that there are weapons in them. All we expect is for the law enforcement authorities to go down there and get the police to look into it. If the police can respond to any call when someone also reports an illegal possession of a weapon, but they do not come to the place to check where those who ordered the weapons, where they are signed under the documents, can go ask Mr. Zemlaric, is signed under the documents when things were ordered; exactly which weapon, how many pieces of this weapon, what ammunition, how many pieces of ammunition are we shooting Where is this weapon? [[…]] If you don't find him in your office, look at Mr. Restoring, maybe he's talking about an island in Isola or he's in that coffee shop next to the WTC, because he said you'd find him there every day. In short, it's up to him to ask, but you're not one of the law enforcement authorities to do that, because the gentleman's untouchable, he's no trouble threatening the press that's coming to him, etc. This would be expected from the responsible police, which is that citizens are not in danger. There's a chance in the woods that kids can play, something can explode. I come alone from the area, from the Poljanska Valley, where we have the Rupnik line. There's the highest concentration of bunkers. All the bunkers have been checked to see if there's any unexploded body in them. They were all examined, all examined, because children are playing in the woods, because youth is playing in the woods and using these objects, including airsoft, paintball and so on, but there was no document anywhere that could be found in these bunkers in the Rupnik line, but it was done and it was examined and checked to avoid ever having any accidents. And that is why we have proposed these recommendations, and I must say that I do not understand the coalition, that it can reject them, because these reports bear no burden and are very general. They are ordering, recommending that the Government take measures to ensure the detection of chemical and other weapons of mass and secret destruction. So we're ordering and recommending to the government to do what I said before. These documents, which are in the public archives, examine who signed them, determine whether this signatory is still alive or not and go first to him as to whether they were purchased or not. If it was bought to whom it was given, it goes to these people. That's on one side. On the other hand, all these deposits, they follow these documents on this list and they go to these addresses where these deposits are supposed to be, and check if they're actually there. That's all we're suggesting, that's all. We don't expose anyone with a name and a last name to which to look, we don't claim anywhere, what address these bunkers are at, where these weapons are. In short, it is the most general, yet very correct and in particular a concrete recommendation to do something about security in the Republic of Slovenia. Another recommendation is for back and also for the current situation. See what it says here: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government that it take all measures immediately to ensure that the persons responsible in the police and other state authorities are released, that the existence of these killings has not been investigated in the first warnings and that these funds or persons who are or are still at their disposal have not been identified." It's been said for months now. But now we know who these people are who are currently blocking to investigate whether these weapons exist. If it exists, where it is, whether the depots exist and where they are, whether they are full or empty. And whoever of the Members votes against such a recommendation is also responsible for not revealing it. Also those in the police and in the government who do nothing to make this happen, including Mr. Boss sitting behind me. If you can order and assign some "fishing" as we have seen in the case that you wanted to capture the servers of the Slovenian Democratic Party, so that you might find some evidence, but here, where there is evidence, you can't look at it, it's more than obvious protecting those who obviously have weapons in illegal possession. I agree that it is not only this problem, but only this weapon, as far as illegal property is concerned, but – just as concrete evidence as ordered by the responsible persons, we are talking about the heads of the former State Security Service, for those who possess illegal weapons, is not. There I agree that you can only guess whether someone has a weapon or not. But here, when there are documents, these things don't get checked out. Both Owl and the police, when asked, both in private and in open sessions, do not want to say a word about this. At the time he was on the committee, I don't know if Mr Pavel Jamnik, this policeman who was supposed to be involved; very arrogant answers: "We are not responsible for this, we are not interested." That was practically everything he said on direct questions. When we asked him a hypothetical question, "in case someone reports that a person – his neighbor – is in possession of an illegal weapon, do you go to him or not?".. And another example: “In case you get the documents that you have here to hide somewhere or have an illegal weapon, are you going to look there or not?... So what's the difference between an application, if someone calls and doesn't have evidence to report that you're going to look there, and if no one calls, but there are publicly available documents, what's the difference if you go look or not?" The answer to this question was, "These are all your hypothetical assumptions, which is not what the police are dealing with." So the police won't go see if it's there or not. One possible answer is why it is as it is, the question I have addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to which I have received the answer that 23% of the former employees of the State Security Service remain in the structures of the Soviet Union. You can imagine 23% of Stasi agents would be employed in the GNI, in the German Intelligence Service. Unimaginable and impossible. But since we have not crossed these practices, it happens that even in the National Assembly there are those who are on the list of the State Security Service – I am talking about the list from Lajovic – and when Perčič sued the president of the SDS, Mr Janez Janša, that he accused him of being a convict because it was so written in those documents, and the court rejected this judgment and gave it to Mr Janez Janša, it acknowledged that this list is credible that this list is relevant and that those numbers that are in there are kept. Yes, you can see, Dr. Gorenak once wrote on his blog about Members sitting and sitting in the National Assembly, and they are listed under such or different numbers. So obviously it's some collegiality, it's obviously a protection in certain individual cases of yourself, of your colleagues, of your botts -- a lot of them we've seen at the establishment of the SMC party at the time -- not to support these recommendations. And it's very general recommendations that put the police on what the police are supposed to do. Persecuting crime. However, it is certainly at home to possess weapons of illicit crime. We've talked about this a lot. But you're talking, and you're only pointing at those who have illegal weapons at home that are not connected to the SDV. I'm sure there's no problem. If they came to me now with some document official or unofficial, that, as far as I know, 9, 10, 11 M70 rifles are at this address, I'm sure the police would go there right now. And that they have, I don't know, some former territorialists who are members of the VSO today. We'd fly there right now and see if that's true or not. But when it comes to protecting yours, when it comes to certain clear documents that clearly testify to where it should be, the matter is not checked. It has been heard that these are not sufficiently accurate and hard-core evidence and that you cannot just go and check on someone. I don't believe this, because if the former Prime Minister of the Government can only be shut down without evidence on the basis of some clues, then it can also be on the basis of some documents in one house to see whether you have a weapon or not. So this argument that you can't because of this, is attracted to hair. I hope that there will be no future like the one in Isola, as it is in Idovščina, because there are two things here. You or the police can cover up such a scandal to some extent, but they can't quite cover it up. At the time of publication of the name and surname of the shooter, the list of SDV staff may be checked and it can be seen whether he was an employee or not. However, where the matter may be covered, it is not known the CIP of the weapon, either because it has been erased or because the police do not report it and there may be manipulation. And we've heard that this gun that was used in Isola is not a gun that could come from that list or that could be bought as a gun for use by the State Security Service. But since you can't see the evidence, because all of this remains in closed circuits in the labs, it can be manipulated. You can't manipulate the origin of the shooter, but you can hide the origin of the weapon. In short, what we did was well-intentioned. We have done so thoughtfully, after two meetings of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, because the Government has not even acted on the recommendations adopted on this committee. I guess we're gonna have to talk about this. I was very concerned when my colleague Grims said in his position, "when you don't follow our recommendations, you take over these victims of your own, so don't do anything to make them go away," and an ad arrived here somewhere from the middle, "I will continue". Well, they'll keep going. In short, a conscious vote against the recommendations that, in addition to all the measures that the Slovenian Democratic Party has already proposed in this mandate to ensure that our citizens and citizens are more secure because we know, in these two cases, it was obvious that the former employees of the State Security Service, to whom, for example, mental health for such and other reasons, have somehow turned, and because they had weapons on them, they did what they did. [[…]] Let's just let one case be legal, especially one that was illegal. And having Thompson and having a gun, and that the police don't dare tell you what the origin of this weapon is, they just confirm our suspicion that it's not only a former officer of the State Security Service, but that it's also someone who shot not only with illegal weapons, but that it's an illegal weapon that was bought on the basis of an order signed by someone from the State Security Service. We speak here for 7,000 pieces, as clearly as is evident from documents that are not the product of our imagination, which we did not invent, but presented as a document from the Republic of Slovenia Archives, but nothing is done. In short, ladies and gentlemen, given point 2 of the recommendation that persons who are responsible in the police and other state authorities be relieved of their responsibility to do nothing – by voting against this recommendation, you are also responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u79	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u80	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The government’s recommendations regarding the illegal possession of huge stocks — some 7,000 pieces of murder funds for quiet and mass destruction in the possession of former members of the State Security Service — are difficult if it is no longer possible to discuss seriously. It is difficult to get rid of the impression that it is another episode of the sequel "Was Everywhere, Rise Everywhere", directed by the SDS party. The fact that these recommendations are based on the claim that the murder tragedy in Isola with SDV weapons was committed by its former co-worker suggests the abuse of this tragedy for political purposes. There is absolutely no indication that Darko Gregorič would be an associate of the Udba and that his murder weapon could be purchased on the black market. It is only true that he was a member of the Ministry of the Interior reserve. Equally, there is no credible evidence that secret bunkers, full of weapons, chemical toxins, explosives and other means of killing are plentiful in Slovenia, as were former members of the SDV. Someone who has been an agent of the Yugoslav Army’s Counter-Intelligence Service – KOS – in the past, cannot have credible evidence. To put it mildly, it is also a strange claim that these means of mass and secret liquidation, not at the time of independence or later, were not handed over to new authorities in democratic elections. The takeover of the State Security Service into the hands of the Demos' government is not known, but the new authorities undisputedly took over the service, renamed it the Security Information Service, the VIS, and placed one of the leaders at the SDS, Miha Brejc. This included cleaning up the work. To what extent only Janez Janša and then Interior Minister Igor Bavčar know. Of the approximately 800 SDV members, 300 are known to have retired administratively. In the summer of 1991, Minister Bavčar issued a decision depriving members of the VIS of police powers and personal weapons. To the extent that this decision has indeed been implemented, it is not known, so it is well past the recommendation of the SDS that the Government find and sanction immediately the persons responsible for the existence of 7,000 pieces of weapons under the supervision of former members of the Udba. If so, then it is the responsibility of then Minister Bavcar, head of VIS Brejc and perhaps indirectly Prime Minister Lois Peterle. And finally, about how forced – that I will not use the expression that you used several times last week – so stupid is this debate about something that is round, but there is nothing inside, and the debate on the committee in charge also shows. If we subtract a fellow Member of the Möderndorfer, only three members of the SDS spoke at this meeting and did not quite choose the words. So at the board meeting, among other things, at the police's expense, we also heard this: "Lord of the Interior, whether you're cut or not or you're making a fool out of people." Unfortunately, we are already used to this level of debate in this National Assembly. With regard to the SDS recommendations, therefore, it is only appropriate to state that it would be the only correct and effective thing to do if the SDS, on the basis of its or Lejak's claims, applied to the police. The fact that instead of what it would be necessary to do, the story in which only speculations and assumptions appear as facts, draws to the National Assembly, is just another attempt to discredit the intelligence services of our country, whose reputation in the face of ongoing affairs is already so well established. In the end, there is only one piece of advice. Leave the research to impartial historians and do not profanize names about the quasi-coworkers of the Udba 25 years after it was abolished. My heart, I'm sure, your children and grandchildren are also interested in what will happen today, tomorrow, and in the future. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u81	Quiet, please. The text is by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The State Security Service often appears on the political debate menu despite the time off of its operation. The bunkers and the killings of these bunkers, which the applicants believe are still illegally owned by individuals, are a subject that we deal with every so long. This issue has been addressed mainly in the past period by the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities and by the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. The different addresses of the requests for urgent meetings of one and the other Commissions do not yet mean that the debate will be different today. One and the same until the darkness reaches the point that it will remain and remain as one and the only truth; even with questions sent on this subject and a similar topic, it was probably no different. We Social Democrats have come up with similar themes from the period before June 1991, when we declared the Republic of Slovenia our own, we have already identified and expressed our views. They're famous, and that's why we're not going to repeat them today. Perhaps it is only necessary to say once again that we regret the events that have taken place in this way and are contrary to current civilisation standards. But despite these past negative experiences, the world is acting the other way around. And that is exactly what respected colleagues and colleagues have learned from history. It seems that the proverb that history repeats is still valid, and it is becoming kind of home to us. Despite the fact that with a positive attitude toward recognizing the mistakes of one and the other, we can skip tragic events for mankind from the past, so we can look around a little. And it's good to see what's going on. Because of the various economic and political interests of this world there, a few thousand miles away from us horrors are happening. And what do we do? We're hoping it'll pass us by? On the occasion of such and similar meetings, we may or may even wonder what the reasons for proposing that after 20 to 25 years this archival theme of the State Security Service is being opened up. For we believe that the archival documents and their interpretation are called primarily by historians and not individuals from those times. It grieves us, in particular, that the applicants of this point are using the tragic event from the hospital, where doctors and police officers lost their lives to promote. The investigation of this tragic event is still ongoing. There is also a process of identifying the origin of weapons, and as the Government also points out in its opinion, there are currently no indications that the former State Security Service would be involved in official weapons. On several occasions, however, it was also answered to questions of connection with the secret locations of this service. Unfortunately, the answers are obviously not correct. In short, similar topics in the future will not bring added value to a better life for the population and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Mursich. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Member of the Joint Left and for her, Mr Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well, at this meeting, a high-speed shooter — although called an automatic rifle — became a machine gun at a colleague of Grims’s. At this rate, it will become a ballistic missile by the end of the session. If I proceed with my position. A year ago, more than a thousand aids to needed refugees came to the Slovenian-Croatian border. At that time, the proponents of the recommendations that we are considering today have created a hysteria about the security threats that refugees are supposed to pose to our country. Since the arrival of refugees did not bring Islamisation and terrorism, which was threatened by people a year ago, they apparently decided this fall to abuse Isola’s murder in a similar panic. By tying it to their long - standing, yet apparently still wintertime theme. Symptomatically and tragically, in all things, the victims of the tragic event in Isola are being abused for their propaganda of fear and the low-level accumulation of political points, just as they did with the refugees. Although the story of the lost killings began with an urgent meeting of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services last year. Well, at this meeting, an amateur archive researcher from the former common country presented frightening information about the large quantities of weapons hidden in some secret bunkers by the former State Security Service. He undermines his credibility when it turns out he can't separate a special chemical killer from a dosimeter. However, the text of the recommendations that we are considering shows that the proponents themselves are not very familiar with weapons when they do not separate the short shot from the automatic rifle, which according to the number of defenders in their parliamentary group is a matter of concern. The need for adoption of the recommendations is justified by the fact that the killer was in a tragic event that took place in Isola in the summer, by 1981, a reserve militiaman and his name appeared in one of the documents that had long been published on the Udba.net portal. It doesn't prove anything in itself. The killer's taking pictures of himself as some kind of Rambo. They would like to create as much panic and fear as possible by talking about a trained shooter, trained to kill, trained to count bullets, highly trained members of the SDV and so on. The killer was just a back-up militiaman. Shooting is still part of police training today, both before and during active service. The killer’s weapon — a gun and a fastshooter found in the house’s investigation — was most likely purchased on the black market. Unfortunately, the illegal arms market is quite divisive. It contains, in particular, many weapons of the former Yugoslav People's Army, which, following the dissolution of the former state, disappeared from the barracks and was lost both to us and to the wider Balkans. After the attacks in Paris, the director of the Kragujevska Zastava confirmed that the automatic M70 rifles used in the attacks were sent to units in Bosnia, Macedonia and Slovenia after being manufactured. In the 1990s, only the tip of an icy mountain revealed a largely illegal and semi-legal trade in weapons of JLA. If any, we should probably look for these weapons, which, of course, the right - hand proponents do not want. To sum up again: this proposal recommends the abuse of a tragic event aimed at creating fear and panic among people and reaping political points on the staged campaign of fear of proposers. These recommendations are also very superficially written for the above all. This proposal is not only inappropriate for further consideration, but it does not deserve any serious debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u86	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Good afternoon! The security of the State is the foundation and guarantee of its existence and is in fact the highest interest that ensures the prevention and prevention of events that threaten or threaten our common value. The security of citizens as a value is always put first, and it is important that the state implements all measures — I repeat, all measures, including preventive measures — that exclude any danger. And the area of illegal possession of murder funds from the time of Yugoslavia is a question that should be answered in the years 1990 and 1991 when, in fact, the former SDV was inherited by the VIS Security and Information Service, which was then chaired or chaired by Mr Brejc and acted in the composition of the then MNZ and the Minister was Mr Igor Bavčar. And it is these two gentlemen who know most why these transfers have not taken place, and the proposer could also invite them to the meeting of the competent committee itself so that they can be questioned. That would have been the easiest thing to do. In Novi Slovenija, we are convinced, in view of all the indisputable findings so far, that the following questions can be answered with firmness. For the first time, the chemical and other means of mass destruction available to the SDV after independence were not handed over to the newly elected Slovenian government or other competent authorities. These funds have not been destroyed either, as there is no evidence whatsoever. The police's statement that, on the basis of an insight into existing archival material, it is not possible to claim that the killings are still in some facilities is likely to be correct, but we should ask ourselves what procedures the police are or could have carried out if they really wanted to detect them. It did not do so because it claims that the reviewed archival documentation does not give rise to sufficient likelihood of suspicion that these facilities would pose a security risk. However, if there is not sufficient likelihood at this point, there is a likelihood that the objects and the means of killing actually exist, and if the competent authorities wish to detect it, they could also talk about the likelihood that the suspicion of human security risks and property actually exists. Secondly, the police also state that they have failed to determine whether there are records of the transfer or acquisition of chemical and other means of killing. Sova also explains that due to the submission of archival documentation to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia before 1990, they cannot answer this question. Therefore, no one can say with certainty that these funds have not been destroyed or committed to the democratically elected Slovenian government. Nor can anyone claim that this deadly weapon no longer exists at any location, and somehow we have fallen into the concept of doubts. However, in New Slovenia, we believe that, given the potential danger of citizens and their property, the country should – despite the fact that 25 years have passed – do everything in order to avoid even the least danger, and accept today's recommendations would certainly make this possible. The fact that all traces of these weapons and serious poisons are lost is alarming and somehow requires action. However, for the very beginning we should ask the most responsible ones, headed by Mr Bavčar, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Swirl. We still have the last position of the Group of Members. For the Group of the Party of the modern centre Mrs Janja Slug, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Members of the SDS made a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the illegal possession of murder funds in the possession of former members of the State Security Service, which we are currently considering, encouraged reporting to the media on the murder of a doctor and a police officer in an isolation hospital. The applicants state that the unsub caused the tragedy by using the red flag of calibre with deleted numbers, while the automatic gun Thompson was found at the address of his residence. In connection with the first and fourth meetings of the KNOVS, where members addressed the issue of the surrender and acquisition of chemical and murder funds from the former State Security Service, and the treatment of the contents of documents from the archives, from which it follows that SDV has acquired for its employees already mentioned guns with which serial numbers have been deleted, and the information that the perpetrator should be an official of the SDV hospital or a member of the SDV reserve, are the reasons or reasons why SDS Members have submitted the said recommendation for consideration. The proposers proposed two points of the recommendation, namely, that the Government take all necessary measures to detect chemical and other killings and take measures to prevent the general danger posed by the illegal possession of a large amount of funds for mass and secret killings, and recommends that the Government take measures to relieve persons in the police and other state authorities responsible for the non-recovery of these assets and persons held by them. With all the above, and in more detail in the material and the accompanying magnetograms, we can rightly ask ourselves why the SDS Members did not open this burning and for them such important questions in 2004 and by 2008 or at the time of the beginning of 2012 and March 2013, when they were the ruling party? That the treatment is irrelevant and meaningless, we have already shown the members of the coalition on the parent committee by proposing and adopting a decision that the consideration of this recommendation is inappropriate for further consideration. The Government has ensured that it ensures the highest level of security in the country with its competent authorities, so that the competent authorities are obliged to verify all information on security issues and, in the case of suspected criminal services, the State authorities shall act without delay in accordance with the applicable rules and rules of procedure. After considering the archival documents at the KNOVS meeting, the police and Sova examined the records from the archive and found that there were no sufficient legal conditions and professional standards for initiating investigative procedures. The Government shall also ensure that, at the end of the investigation, a third party will be responsible for carrying out appropriate procedures if a sufficient level of suspicion is established that, in addition to the offender in possession of the weapon, a third party will be responsible. The fact is that the Slovenian police, in accordance with their continuing mission with all due diligence, ensure the highest level of security in the country. In the event of a sufficient level of suspicion of a crime of human security or property, the competent authorities shall act without delay. The detection of illegal weapons and illicit dangerous and prohibited assets is a regular activity of all operational services to ensure the internal security of the Republic of Slovenia and its citizens. The priority of the current government – and what we also advocate in the SMC Group – is to ensure a high level of internal security by engaging all crime-fighting agents and protecting public order, protecting the lives and health of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the above, we will assess in the SMC Group that the proposed recommendation is inappropriate, unnecessary, so we will support the conclusion that the recommendation is inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Lady Servant. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The representative of the Magi proposalr first took the floor. Branko Grimes. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you, again, for your word. This country is very interesting. Twenty-five years since the liberation, since the departure of the last soldier JLA, this is exactly what we are celebrating today. He gives his congratulations to all for winning. The outside invader went away, but as in every horror — something survived from that previous regime. And these survivors are members of the former resurrection, as it were, at home, and all those who benefited from them and still have it today. And that's what we're talking about. And that's why it's so nervous, and that's why this debate is at times, colleagues and colleagues, if you didn't realize it yourself, it was kind of funny, but it was kind of a nice thing to say. Now watch out, just a few quotes from the successors of the former lefties and a few comments. One of them now came up and said, "Yes, listen, when there were thousands of migrants there, and you said, yes, among other things, terrorists could be what turned out to be – there was no terrorism, there were no terrorists". Then what did it do in Paris? You won't believe what proved irrefutable? At least two of the direct supporters of the crimes in Paris, so they went across Slovenia from the terrorists. Moreover, two times three pieces were arrested, once in Austria, once in Germany, they went unrefutablely across Slovenia. So eight of them were irrefutablely proved to have gone through Slovenia. But to this fellow, it just shows that there wasn't any. And all those tens of the dead in Paris who were, by the way, if you don't know, horribly tortured some mean nothing to him – no, there was no terrorism. If you don't want to see it, it's gone. Funny thing is, that's what a man who likes to take pictures with a Che Guevare T-shirt says. Do you know who Che Guevara was? He was a psychopathic murderer, of whom there are credible testimonies, that not only led a gang of murderers who killed just as many people who came to their way, but that he liked to torture, especially young girls. And the testimony is that when the last bullet was put in his head by him, it was a purely innocent young girl who was living on it, that he had such a special dark glow in his eyes. And if such a person continues and shows an extremely accurate knowledge of weapons, forgive us, we should be concerned. I'd be if I were you. Let's move on. With real hysteria, the SD had a message, "yes, but this debate will not lead us anywhere else." Oh, come on. Of course, you won't be, because you're defending these people because you're defending double standards that are clearly before the law for members of the former Udba or the State Security Service, which is a political benefit for you. You've always had one. It was based on your authority, on which you kept many levers of power. By the way – all media editors, not only did they have to go through a sieve of former parties, but also especially through the Udba site. Don't forget that. And they are based, of course, on your current prosperity and the latest surveys and manipulations with these outcomes show that they think again this particular party pump for the next elections. Apparently, there are no new faces under which, of course, you will always get the same old "pakungo", which is actually decades old. And then there was an interesting lecture by a colleague who had already replaced quite a few left parties – unworthy for a former athlete, I must say – when he said the following statement: "Yes, that's in mind." That this is made up of ladies and gentlemen, these were the documents that all of us are available to you; some of them were attached to this, some of them were shown at a public meeting and there are copies of them also in the premises of Parliament, specifically in the archive of the commission I am leading. [[…]] Whenever you are invited, all of you come and take a look at it, not to say something on your mind — speaking in mind is exactly what it is. But there are documents that are indisputable, which are credible, and that is why it is so much, sorry, inappropriate, and especially for the biggest government party, and why are you not using this now?".. Because of this, ma'am, this has only been found in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia by people who deal with history. With Mr. Leljak at the head. But how did these documents get into the archives, and when? Then why didn't you open it? Because until then there was no document in the archive, these documents were secret and were then only dedicated to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, with an unknown torment. Also, some who should be concerned that these documents should be placed in the archive in time, unfortunately, have been delayed and have just signed some annexes to wait a little while longer, but a little look is made at the exceptions, just so that everything does not go into the archive. In fact, very few documents are left; for example, in East Germany, more than 90% of all archives are accounted for by the regime's survival, at least 95% of the archives have been destroyed in Slovenia. And from what's left, there's still a lot to hide today, and every trick is used, just so things don't turn over to the Republic of Slovenia Archives, where it's accessible under legal conditions to the public for study. And on that basis, of course, we can open these things up. Because just so we don't think about it, we need historians, we need people who go to the archive, they bury themselves in that data, and then they warn. Specifically, this story – Mrs Sluga, if you stop chatting with Mr Möderndorfer, you will hear this – did not come about on the basis of this murder in Isola. We opened this story a year earlier, right after the commission I run was appointed. But you know you've been stalling this appointment for over six months, you already knew why. And in doing so, we referred to who was proposed to her as if that was your problem. Each party shall have the right to propose persons whom it considers may contribute to the proper functioning of this Commission. And this Commission takes most of the most important decisions unanimously, which I am particularly proud of, because that is rare in this House. The report you will receive on the table in December was also adopted unanimously because it is a special quality. I hope you will understand this and also appreciate it and have an appropriate relationship. When it comes to security when it comes to fundamental democratic values, this should be the standard in this House, and unfortunately, it is extremely rare. That's why I'm proud to run such a commission. But let's go back. It is true, however, that some have disputed the Commission’s right to open this matter at all. But we have discussed this in open sessions; all the documents, documents he has brought – we have invited those involved – specifically Mr Leljak to Parliament – to participate. And on this basis, a year ago, we warned that this should be investigated because we had a list of weapons, a list of potential killers, a credible document and a list of bunkers where these things would be located. To say that this is not enough to meet the standards, when we have subsequently obtained statements from all the key reachable people of the time, and they have all said that this has never been committed, not destroyed, not in any other way alienated by the legal path, it is said, somewhere illegal Pa is still said "it does not meet the standards". [[...]] Who's here for a fool? Excuse me, if your neighbor sees that you have two guns, and he's gonna send another report to the police to get two witness reports, you'll have a house investigation the next day. Here were 10 testimonies, you have them attached — from the most crucial people, from institutions. And nothing happens. It's called "not good enough." If someone brings a credible document to the police that you ordered, bought 10 automatic rifles, the next day you'll have a special police unit and a house investigation, I guarantee. Here we have submitted credible documents on the order of at least 7,000 pieces of the murder weapon — weapons, weapons with silencers, automatic weapons, sniper weapons, explosives, incendiary bombs, bombs of great power — and this is not being investigated at all. Reliable documents. It says, "Yes, it's not sufficient to the standard," because it's obviously not in the political interest of someone to investigate it. And then what happens is that it is a shame for Slovenia that people who were members of the former State Security Service are legally condemned abroad and investigations in Slovenia are not from anywhere. To find in a nearby Koroška bunker full of everything you can think of as the worst thing you can think of from the Department of Former State Security. Full of it – because they are investigating it there and it is not found in Slovenia because it is not being investigated. The only thing that happened was two empty. One hidden, very jamesbondian, film; you turn the hook, and you open a part of the wall under the sink and you have access to the bunker. And it's still saying, "it's not enough for us, it doesn't meet the standards." Just to do the investigation, because it's not about anything else. Let's take a look at the location and see if there's anything else to remove the danger. Once again, for some there are credible documents that have been mined. And you can imagine that this could be somewhere in there today, there's a school next to it, when one of the kids just happens to turn something around. Who's going to be responsible? You who say you will not deal with it but that this is inappropriate for further consideration. And all those in responsible services who should act on official duty, of course, too. And you there, Mr Möderndorfer and Mrs Slug, who are so cheerfully chatting all the time, will also be responsible, and this chat will not in any way relieve you of personal responsibility because you hide your eyes. That's what I said before. Here are the documents, the authentic testimonies, signed, handwritten, the people were invited to come here and speak in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, they did not respond to this invitation for any reason or other. However, all the key ones have only sent statements, testimonies, which are a credible document, from which the same knowledge as the competent institutions of this country has also been confirmed. For all these pieces of weapons, there is no data to be destroyed, to be committed and not to know where they are. There are possible locations, they're real bunkers. We should go see what else is there. If it's empty there, then it obviously ended up on the black market and these things should be traced as far as possible because they pose a potential danger. There's a lot of potential danger. The terrorists mentioned earlier. Can you imagine that one of those who comes in with bad intentions will find access to these funds on the black market? How this would end may not have to be explained. I only hope that then a colleague who has ignored the involvement of terrorists who have crossed Slovenia in crimes in Paris will not say again that he sees nothing and knows nothing and that nothing has happened because it does not match what he would like to make up. Nothing here helps to enforce the Balkan principle of "what Grandma wanted, what Grandma dreamed" – what you want, what you see, what you don't see, what you don't see. Once these things are open, the law is clear. And here I am asking you all: who in this country has the right — and you have been elected by oath of the rule of law — to manifestly violate the rules of the Republic of Slovenia? Because it's a violation of the rules. With so many indications of the existence of prohibited illegal killings owned by people who should certainly not have access to them that lie somewhere, could also be forgotten in what bunker, someone should conduct an investigation into official duties, ladies and gentlemen. And it's obviously a political decision that the director of the criminal service said so nicely when he was at our commission's meeting: "We will not deal with it." Then there's a crime, so we put it together. Because that should sober you up. It wasn't an indication of why we started dealing with it. We dealt with it a year earlier and a year earlier we warned and a year earlier we demanded an investigation, and you didn't want to do it, the one with the authority. And that should sober you up and that burdens you because you didn't listen to timely warnings. And you say, "Now that's the abuse of what happened." How can you not be ashamed to come up with such a statement? You break the law consciously because you do not do what people have chosen you to do and what you have vowed to do. And after this has the worst possible consequences, you say that the one who warns and warns about it a year earlier is now taking advantage of it. Shame on you. Well, at the end. Someone made a fool of them to be trained killers. I don't know what kind of people you are with, but I'm sorry, I can't imagine that a normal person who has some values growing up in Slovenia can go and shoot a man who doesn't know him, shoots him in the face of someone who's been treated to help him. And after this one falls, he sends another bullet to the back of his head. And if anyone doubts that this man is a trained killer, think of this: if I'm not mistaken, the wounded policeman was this case of having a protective vest on him, and in a moment, he was so surprised that he shot him right where this jacket has a stitch and is the only vulnerable point in his jacket at this height that he could reach so quickly. For the first time, you have to know exactly where to shoot, and for the second time, I have to be an endlessly cold man. And we should be worried about people like that. Every normal person cares about people like that. And this case should light the alarm at work. Unless you've done nothing so far, at least now it's really being scrutinized to eliminate any potential sources of threat that still exist. And what does the coalition do? The Coalition concludes that all these proposals, which require nothing other than consistent respect for and implementation of the applicable laws of the Republic of Slovenia, are not suitable for further consideration. What if you are not fit for further consideration, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak and Mrs Eva Irg. Jani Möderndorfer, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President, at last! I thought he'd spend all his time, but O.K., that's just the way it is. He says we're putting people's lives at risk here in the National Assembly. In fact, he writes in his material that the applicant only wants to ensure security. Sounds good. But what we actually heard and listened to is not the first time. And given that the Vice-President is allowed to debate and debate in Parliament, I will, of course, first address the proposed Mr. Look, at least be so many gentlemen that if you're talking about the MP who gave her a position on behalf of the delegation – but you know she can't discuss it and she can't even replicate it to you – leave her alone and let me deal with what you've done in part before I've even discussed it. It's your art. But if we move on to the essence of your proposal, it's another thing. Actually, I already told you on the committee that you live in conspiracy theories. But I'm going to be very brief, because I don't think much time or smoke, because the topic that you're dealing with in the way you're dealing with is aboriginal to my notions, and I'm going to tell you why. You're saying the weapon wasn't delivered during the transition where it was supposed to be. I even believe that's true. But then who was the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior? But who was responsible for all of this at the time? Like one. Like two. In your client you are the least competent to talk about weapons stories, because you have too many indictments around your head, so I would rather support and fight in your place to open all the archives on weapons from A to Z, not only at the Ministry of the Interior, but also at the Ministry of Defence. For once in the Slovenian public, we will finally clear up what two investigative commissions could not do, what no court could do. In short, to come to the end of some questions and stories about what was happening to this weapon, which you are, of course, all the time. I don't see people in here, or I don't know them, who would deal directly with guns. If anyone knows anyone, please – by name, tell them who it is and give it to them, we will quickly come through the law enforcement agencies to the point. Second thing. You're talking about bunkers. Tell me where this bunker is. Tell me where? The exact location and make an official report, and the matter is resolved. These are your suggestions you're making. Sorry if we accept that, if we accept that, what have we been doing for 25 years? [[…]] But for 25 years, we've been looking at the luft, and now we've just figured out that all of this has to be done? I am sure that we have the right legislation – you yourself have confirmed several times from those benches that you trust Slovenian police and believe that you are doing your job – and then we have other services that are in charge. And finally, everyone, if they know anything, has to press charges. In the end, let me just finish. I'm expecting something very soon, because you don't really need me and Janja Servant for the listener, you need the media. You need cameras to tell us the same "Lajtungo" over and over again without arguments, without names or names. Apart from referring to some names from some documents, where, in fact, the nice thing is already quite improbable for it to be an example. And I won't even mention it. If you want to continue living in this delusion, live, I won't. We have much more serious work to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Möderndorfer. The representative of the proposer would like a word. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u94	First of all, as far as the police are concerned. Of course, I have said many times, and I say today that I believe in the expertise of the Slovenian police. But I don't trust those politicians with the current ruling outfits, which in any case can affect their work, because you're changing customers faster than an ear picker. When you say the problem is what I warned you before – respected Mr Möderndorfer, negligence in the performance of my job or function is a crime. And giving up duties in the performance of your work is just as a crime. And you all know that, those of you who allowed terrorists to cross Slovenia, that's the problem. And all those who avoid initiating an appropriate investigation into the former State Security Service or the Udba, and in particular with regard to the killings that are obviously located somewhere, which are documented; their order, their purchase is documented and their locations are possible documented because all the known locations of these bunkers were part of the material that we sent to the competent institutions, which then came only back. [[...]] They said they'd looked into it, but they wouldn't do anything, because obviously there's no political will to do it. Not that there is no expertise, but there is no political will in the current ruling set, because the political successors of the former secret political police, those condemned in the European Union by the European Parliament, including by the votes of all Members from Slovenia, and in Slovenia – with the honourable exception of us here – have never been able to do so, which, of course, tells us very clearly who is protecting whom, who is defending whom and who has one face for Europe and another face for domestic use. And then it's no wonder that we have obviously citizens and citizens of two categories. Some laws are consistent and others sometimes do, sometimes not. Just like the ruling authorities are right now. And as long as that is so, it is not a democratic rule of law, but it is a country that is debased on development, which does not exploit all its development potentials precisely because it is not a real rule of law. Everything we propose and demand has a constitutional basis in a simple fact. We only demand that all the laws of the Republic of Slovenia be implemented consistently and without exception.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr Vinko Gorenak, to be prepared by Mrs Eva Irgl and Mr Jan Mahnic. Dr. Gorenak, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much. There, since 1996, these weapons, always shortly before the elections, have appeared in this National Assembly. I wonder if the election is coming. If we, ladies and gentlemen in the middle, have to start writing applications for a job. Mr. Möderndorfer started talking about weapons. And look how spectacularly he escapes from the hall, he's no longer here. But at least the viewers need to tell them what they're doing. He said the following, "I for God's sake, let's open up all the weapons archives, and we'll see." Ladies and gentlemen, in 2000 – I think that there was 10 or 11, I don't know which one, when you didn't know, most of the people sitting here will be Members – we're in my party, so the SDS party on the agenda of the National Assembly placed a agenda item in which, for the first time, we called on the President of the Republic to open all archives related to weapons. Everything, but from 1991 to now, if you want. Calling the secretary of defense, she was of the kind of SD to do the same. Calling an interior minister who was from that party that doesn't exist anymore to do the same. And so we wanted to achieve what? What Mr Möderndorfer is selling today as pumpkins is now sold to some unique person, there I would say it is a unique thing. So we proposed this five or six years ago, and you know what the answers were? The president of the country said no. The Home Secretary said no. And the Secretary of Defense said no. Who did these people belong to politically? Yes, your blood is political. So if you had any serious intentions, then you would have opened those archives, and you didn't, your predecessors didn't want them. What were they afraid of? They're gonna run out of material for pre-election periods in the future, that's all. Besides, there's something you need to say. Mrs. Muršičeva is talking about having historians do this. Yes, then it would be nice if historians or the cultural ministry were to investigate such things when they broke into their home, such as the potential or the monkeys. But the suspicion of criminal services is still the responsibility of the police and not some cultural ministry or some historian. Next came the speech Mr. Wilphan said, "Why didn't you report it?" [[…]] Yes, Mr Grimes has declared this to be the President of the Commission. Yes, of course he did. And when I asked the inside minister and the deputy director-general of the police on the board, "did you, on the basis of this application, conduct discussions with the still living leadership of the Udba?" – this I think I asked three times – "Please answer the question, have you spoken to the other living representatives of the Udba of that time?" Maybe the Secretary of State will say something today. [[…]] Do you know what the answer was? It was quiet. The secretary wouldn't answer. The Deputy Director-General was also silent. It was red. What does that mean? That they don't want to do that. That means that. But to do that, they have to have political cover. There can be no other way, because tomorrow there will be some criminal service, some criminalist – Mr Ferruga, you can imagine what that would be, you were there – said "I will not investigate this murder". Sort of. What would happen? And today the crime police say, "We're not going to investigate this." Now for those of you who say, "What have you been doing for 25 years?" Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I was there myself. At least in the interior ministry. Mr. Janša, too, on defense. But, my dears, who is obliged to hand over the business? Who is obliged to hand over the materials, and who can silence them? The ones who hand over the business, not the ones who accept it. How can the then government be how can the then ministers be, or am I, like, an advisor to Minister Bavčar at the time, how could we have known about this? Yeah, we didn't know. This was until 2011, 2012, 2013 hidden. Where? It's in the Stripes. It's somewhere else. So how could we know? Look, we pulled Peterlet with us. It's his fault he was the Prime Minister, isn't it? I usually, you probably already know that I don't talk about financial issues because I don't see anything other than what's in my wallet, and I don't know anything else about finance. That's how I listen to you here to some smart people who sell crap. Who speak only to say something, not to say something. Mr. Möderndorfer spoke of conspiracy theories. Yeah, there's one document, and that's another document, from which I'm going to quote a few things now. The State Security Service is in 1972 – this is based on these documents that exist, which are real that you can walk; you can also find photos on my website if you want – planned what? Prototype F1 – Prototype activated when directly impacted on the body. Yeah? So the citizens were idolized? Prototype activated in direct impact on the body. They must've idolized the citizens. That's why they developed it, isn't it? F2 — model for indirect action, ballistic needle activated at a shorter distance. What would we do with that, shoot the birds? Is that what they were for? The prototype of the trigger activated at a certain speed is interesting. I wonder why they had this to measure the speed of some sprinter? Come on, they put him in the car, and at a certain rate, the bomb went off. A prototype trigger that goes off at a certain mile, why would that be? Probably because they put it in the car, but it rested 100 kilometers, probably. For example, look, in 1976 it was obviously all developed and, say, interesting order I/6 Z 44/57 of 23. 11. 1976. SDV Maribor orders Ljubljana the following material and technical means: Ten pistols with silencers; probably so as not to disturb the deaf because they were shot or what? That's probably why they had silencers, isn't it? 100 sets of explosive devices with 500 grams of explosives. Why would that be? Explosives are usually used to killing, aren't they? 30 sets of drugs, for complete tranquillity and means of poisoning and other means of decommissioning. Ah, the means of total tranquillity, great. They probably went to the doctors or what they were doing, but some sick people were doing it, or what? According to me, known information was taken abroad, an injection was sent to him, and he was brought to Ljubljana in the trunk, to Kotnikov's 8, 8th floor, 56 steps up. 30 sets of windshields and pants, possibly purchased in Austria and Italy from the warehouses of the American army. Well done, isn't that nice? You probably put that up there if you want to hide a little bit from where you're from, probably that's why. And so on. For example, SDV Ljubljana was in 1976, 1. 12. 1976 under the number of this and that, I have written, orders: 20 pieces of funds for a living diversion with triggering mechanisms, time and chemical. Why did they have that? 10 pieces of means of silent liquidation, 10 pieces of chemical incendiary agents, 5 pieces of persistent poison. Interesting, 30 pieces of wigs, mustache, glasses and spoons. At the time, those suckers were, remember, the more down here you had, the more modern you were, because remember this, at least older. I'm not going to mention it. So there are a number of documents that have been discovered in recent times that suggest the need for this to be investigated and nothing else. And those who now talk about not having to look into it take some responsibility for what can happen tomorrow. I would like to point out that in 1991 this was not handed over to the new authorities. And it has to be somewhere, in one form or another. And that's what we need to find so we won't be surprised tomorrow when something breaks in the middle of Prešeren Square and we'll have 100 dead, let's say, what then? Then your conscience will burn, at least I hope you know, those who oppose such matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Gorenak. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mr Marko Ferluga. Mrs. Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia makes it clear that everyone has the right to personal dignity and security. And when we talk about the last part, that is, security, the right to security, of course, it is the responsibility of the State to take care of such measures and to ensure that they protect citizens and citizens. And when it is found that security has been tested, in this case, because of the killings that have not been committed to the new democratic authorities in over 90 years, it is important to note this, otherwise we do not act responsibly. And the coalition in this case does not act responsibly. And the Government is particularly irresponsible and, in this case, the Secretary of State. Today, I'm sorry, Mr. Chief, you have not assured us that we can feel safe in this country because of these killings. I'll tell you why. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party have proposed a recommendation that measures be taken immediately to ensure the detection of chemical and other means of mass and secret extermination by which it has been proven that the State Security Service has been in possession and that we know the deposits that colleagues have been talking about and that there are in fact more than 7,000 pieces of weapons that we do not know where they are. Mr. Chief, let me answer if you know where these 7,000 pieces of weapons are. But if you can't answer that, then you need to initiate an investigation. Not just saying, "we've reviewed a few archival documents and found that it's, I don't know, we just remembered something." It can't be like that, then you're irresponsible. And if it comes from anything, we have already seen this today in the case of Isola, in the case of Ajdovščina, then you too will be responsible if there is a threat to the safety of citizens and citizens, and of course the whole Government, as well as a coalition that does not support these recommendations. But I am not surprised that the coalition does not support the failure to support the need to prevent the general threat posed by the illegal possession of a greater amount of funds for mass and secret killings. I'm not surprised. And this isn't about any piranha, respected colleagues and colleagues, because of what happened in Isola. I'll go back a little bit. On several occasions, on the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we have addressed topics related to the functioning of the former State Security Service. For all those who may not have been in the National Assembly at the time and failed or refused to read the Supreme Court's decisions, let me say that the Supreme Court's decision is clear when it says that the State Security Service or the Court was a criminal organisation. A criminal organization that has fabricated things and has also murdered, kidnapped and killed individuals. Today, respected colleagues and colleagues in Austria have already been convicted in the Perkovic-Mustač case. What about us? Can anyone answer me if a case has been processed? Even though it is known that the people still living were at the head of the former Udba or the State Security Service in 1972, for example, Mr Silva Gorenc, who knew more than apparently about the kidnapping and liquidation of Stéphane Montenegrin. In Austria, the procedure is under way. This is irrelevant in Slovenia. But look, I'm going back again. I am not surprised that the coalition does not support these recommendations or this recommendation. Thus, on the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we discussed the view on the functioning of the former State Security Service through the prism of human rights, in the light of the inviolability of human life, as stated in Article 17 of the Constitution and personal dignity and security, as already stated in Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. But the composition at the time – however, it is always the same political agenda – voted against all decisions, even against this conclusion, that the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with former political function holders and former officials of the State Security Service, to do everything to ensure that the owners and descendants of the murdered persons by the former State Security Service find their remains and that they can be buried with dignity. How can you deny support for such a conclusion? Mr. Chief, I know you have nothing to do with this, but does that seem fair to you? Do you think that's human? Do you think it's humane to simply vote against such a decision? I don't think so. But here we have to look at the whole thing a little bit wider. Today we are in an extremely difficult time when Europe and the world are being shaken by terrorist attacks as mass movements take place. We are talking about a migrant crisis, which is still not over and is still on the ground somewhere, and we never know when the next wave will come. When the values of Europe are tested, which we have fought hard, if I say so, and among them is precisely the value of peace and the value of security. And unfortunately, citizens and citizens of the European Union are no longer as safe as they once were because of certain measures that were not taken, which were too late. And, of course, the Member States of the European Union must ensure everything to prevent any accidents. They must do everything and if we see that we have a problem here – and this is a problem, in fact – then we must solve it and the government must take it seriously, because security assurances are, in my opinion, crucial for a normal functioning modern or, if you want, a free society. Today, my colleagues have already found that these 7,000 pieces of weapons, which were not handed over when they were supposed to be and apparently do not know exactly where they are, except for some bunkers – one is even in Ajdovščina; I say this because I come from the Vipavska Valley alone – they have found that all these things that have not been fully explored are, of course, a general threat that the responsible government cannot ignore, especially in the light of the latest events we witnessed, at the hospital in Izola, when the shooter was proven a contributor to the State Security Service. I'm not going to go down into weapons specs because I don't know that, but it seems that he probably owned a weapon that was in the range of the former State Security Service. And that should be a problem for you, Mr Secretary of State. And the law enforcement authorities, so the police are required to verify where more than 7,000 pieces of this weapon are located, as well as the means of killing and the means of liquidating them silently. For it is only in this way that you can protect citizens and citizens from the terrible tragedies and disasters that can happen. And the Slovenian Democratic Party is obliged to point out this if none of the other parties sees any responsibility in clarifying these matters. How little is really worth the security of citizens and citizens in Slovenia, so the Government proves with its ignorance, as well as a coalition that simply does not support our recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The last two discussers in this regular work are Mr Jan Mahnic and Marko Ferluga. Mr. Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u100	Yes, thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! I am surprised by this inaction of the coalition Members; with the exception of one, no one else has discussed, one will follow me, but this silence is very eloquent. I think that the coalition Members are aware that this is a problem, but they are also aware that, in the event that they accidentally confirm this, they are going to wander into an area that could endanger their stay here in the National Assembly. We know, we know the history of the parties, we've seen people who were at the founding congress at the time, we know their origins, they're on some lists, and these people have to be protected in every way. By the way, there's an account on Twitter, an uprising between us. There they publish practically daily new and new individuals who are at the top of Slovenian politics, at the top of the Slovenian banking system, the Slovenian economy, in the media, in diplomacy and so on. And among these was the name of Mr Boštjan Boss. Mr. Chief, my question is, have you ever been an agent of the State Security Service or not? Because if you have been, as it is written there – and there are numbers there too – then it is a problem to discuss these matters with you because it already knows who you are protecting. Given that we also know that you were a treasurer, we know which fund, I'm really curious about this. And then I'm not surprised why the government's position is what it is. I was curious about the position of the DeSUS Group, "Let's watch what happens today, tomorrow and in the future" Dear colleagues, what if today, tomorrow or in the future one of these killings explodes on a public medium if one of these killings is planted in a public place, if used for murder as we have already witnessed, or if accidentally one of the deposits in which this weapon relates explodes. [[…]] This can happen today, tomorrow and in the future and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are also interested in this in addition to all other issues. Last week we had a meeting of the National Assembly, regularly in October, today we conclude it. And don't keep reading when we come up with a theme that refers either to independence or to a half-time history that we only deal with history. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with what is important for this country and what is important for citizens and citizens. You had the Forest Act on the table, you had the Social Protection Benefits Act, you had the Law on the Dual School System. Did you back it up? You're not. You did not support it and there was no argument against it. These are also topics that concern today, tomorrow and in the future, but because you have no argument against the topics that we are opening up to and that you know it is right that, despite the fact that this is not water on the mill your political option, you always come with an excuse, "let's leave it alone, let's deal with the future." 90% of the things we put in refer to the present and the future. What we have tabled today also relates to the present and the future, of course, in relation to the past. But we are talking about the most fundamental good each individual must have, and that is security. And if there are some unbalanced individuals running around the country who have illegal weapons at home, this is a problem or should be a problem in every normal country. In Slovenia, that is not a problem. What this government has to do with security, we have also seen when you allowed one of the fighters of the Islamic State, Slovenian Roz Zavbi, to walk peacefully in Slovenia. Only when a warrant came in from Italy did he get arrested. The Slovenian army is being destroyed from day to day, similar to the state of the police. The security of citizens and citizens is the Spanish village. I know that the problem is to fix things quickly overnight in the police, in the military and so on. But you can go through the night and look at these addresses, by the descriptions of where these deposits are, and see if there's a weapon or not. It may also be overnight for people who are signed under documents ordering such and other things as Mr Gorenak had previously listed. But this can be done overnight, and this is a contribution to greater security, but because we see who is signed under this order, where these deposits are, and then it's a problem that you wouldn't come knocking on the door of some currently very active lobbyist, maybe even some banker, who, I know, is very highly profiled in the media world among journalists. That's what's bothering you, that's the problem, and you're protecting these people. Before that, my colleague Grimes once again said, "You're endangering people's lives." One of the SMC MPs said, "so we'll keep doing it." Too bad all the microphones aren't always bugged so people can hear what they're saying. One of the MPs said during the meeting, "and we will continue to do so" because these recommendations are not accepted. I don't know if he's afraid anyone would come to his house if he had some illegal piece. But this way, look, colleagues and colleagues, it's not working. That's not how it works. It was the same when we proposed that when it came to amendments to electoral legislation, those who were members of the security and intelligence services in the communist system should no longer run for Members or simply sign a declaration that they were never co-workers and if it turns out that they were members of the Communist system, lose their mandate. Something that is perfectly normal in the Western Democratic world. And even then, with the same "no" arguments, "let's leave history." Look, it's been 25 years, ladies and gentlemen, and these things aren't working out, because these things are only coming up right now. And then you keep coming up with that excuse, and Janša was the Secretary of Defense, because Bavčar was the Interior Minister, because you had Demos' government. Yes, but how would these people who were on the list of those who were even in prison know that there were such orders that there was such a list if those documents were not handed over to them at the time of that week around 15 May when the surrender took place? Not only was this weapon not delivered, but it was picked up when the territorial defenses were self-disarming. Where is this weapon? Where are these 7,000 pieces? Anyone concerned with safety should make every effort to find it. The MPs don't want us walking around the field looking for this. But we are here to accept such recommendations, to vote for such recommendations, which will be given to those in our country who are responsible for running on the ground and who are looking for these pieces of weapons, to do so. That's what we're here for. Take another look at what we're proposing. We offer more security for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In front of us are violent reactions, we are facing a turbulent time – not only in Slovenia, I am talking about an international environment. And everything has to be done to find it. Because once it comes, God forbid, to any terrorist attack with this weapon, the blood of all innocent victims will be on your hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u101	Mr. Marko Ferruga, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State! I understand the fear of my fellow workers, now I will say on the left, even though they are on the right, but no matter what it is, I will say, a winter repertoire: whether they are partisans or patriots or graves or whether they are shallow or whether it is that or that, but no matter what, 25 years is somehow this concern for the safety of the mature and look at you devil, today after 25 years is this danger and this obsession with it suddenly comes to a choice. [[…]] [[…]] Okay, that's fine, too. That's what you need to talk about, of course. They also talked at KNOVS, they did it all – full of, half-empty bunkers, mined bunkers, of course, if we put some more migrants in there, then we get one really explosive situation with us. [[…]] In particular, when we speak of all these matters, it is also interesting that, during the explanations, it was also stated that the KNOVS also found that all the documentation from the preceding periods — 1990, 1991 — was destroyed, showing what had happened to the killings or whether the transfer by the authorised co-workers had occurred at all. So we're just talking about some stuff. It's easy to conclude – maybe it's someone who knows who doesn't know, I don't know what, it doesn't matter. However, when I continued to read what was said around these bunkers, Dr. Trček, among others, said the following or quoted the contents of the depot in the Pesnica. Specifically: sanity, static to this, amp to this, first to this, aluplast, winding route, bandage, food, Gavrilović steak, tetra juice, almost meal, beans with sausages, fish sardines, soup and so on. If it's such a resource, I don't know. Then it's said that there was an empty bunker and that. We can talk about these things, we can talk, we can waste time, but I don't think that's it. On this whole matter, it might be interesting that the police are alone, too, and this is what it says at the 4th session of the 12th. 5. "Despite those decisions, the State authorities have not received additional archival or documented documents on the basis of which they could begin to establish the existence of a reasonable suspicion of criminal services and thereby obtain a legal basis for investigative activities. [[…]] It's also one of those interesting things. If I do, then I'll refer to what Mr. Gorenak said. Of course, these bunkers and all that came out of the Cold War. Those who have read at least a little of history know this and have had it in all countries — ours, including all the other Westerns, and that various things have been stored and had in the event of an attack. After that, after the end of this cold war — at least in the vast majority of cases — the bunkers were emptied; at least in some countries this was usually the case. And now that we're talking about what can be done now, about whether those codes were 6,000 and still were members of the Udba, again one such argument, where the archive itself said that it was by no means possible to choose from that code whether they were or because it was mentioned only as employees of internal affairs, not explicitly as SDV. [[…]] That too could be debated. That this is one of such top issues depends on which side or client you are looking from. I am confident that we will still have these endlessly in this direction; somehow around the Judgment near and around. And if we are talking about all these things, perhaps I would dare to give myself another hypothesis that we can then develop within the debate: that all these many weapons, as my colleagues say, could have been sold during those wars that took place in the territory of the Balkans. Maybe, and that's for cash, and there won't be any lists found anywhere and that. So here to operate and play with it, I think it's a little bit of the sort of thing that bothers me the most is that we always get involved in our jobs, that's one thing, and the other thing is we mix the police again. [[…]] One time we're okay with the police working, one time we're not okay. At this point in this darkness, the police don't suit us how they behaved. They were good in the past. And as a conclusion or a reflection, it seems very strange when we talk about these so-called 'killers', about killers, that in Slovenia – I don't want to talk or preconceive anything – but there was no visible person. Only ordinary people have always been killed; if we're talking about those who talk about what these horrible killers were like, and I don't know what they were. There's always this kind of discourse that a man doesn't understand. I think it's really smarter that this ends somehow in some KNOVS sessions. I know it's never gonna end, because politics is this game. However, it is necessary to look somehow into the future and I think that such a danger as this all comes to pass is not. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Ferruga. Mr. Jean Mahnič asked for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you, Vice President. I'd explain it to my colleague Ferlug because he said he must have misunderstood me that he was interfering with the army and the police when it came to that. I gave this comparison in the context of how the coalition's security concerns the Spanish village. Not only is nothing done for the security of citizens and citizens in the case that those weapons that have been disposed of have been sold, but that the weapons of the former Udba or the State Security Service are also the Spanish village when we talk about the state of the police, what the state of the military is. And just for comparison: the police knock on the door, when someone writes something on Facebook over migrants, we have had such cases. Here, when we have addresses in the documents where the weapons could be located, there's nowhere to go. Police like that, I don't think we need it in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. The text shall be obtained by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Šefic. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! It is good, in fact, that we all agree together in this House that security is one of the key values, our values, for which we must make every effort. And I think that we have repeatedly stressed this by the Government and, of course, also proved that security is indeed considered an extremely important value. This in the last year, year and a half has been highlighted and proven several times by the budget, including by strengthening the police in all respects and by doing so today, and we will also be doing it in advance. I'm also pleased to hear from you that the police are active and that the police are undoubtedly providing security. And I think that what I said before, of course, proves that we are also aware of all the challenges ahead. And these challenges, I agree with you, will be very big, very great trials, so we are preparing ourselves accordingly. Of course, I also mean the legislation that I hope you will get in Parliament within a few days. And the police provide security in all areas. This is demonstrated by all the reports that we have dealt with in recent years in this House and all the positive assessments that the police have also received. And I agree that these positive assessments are justified, and I believe that you have also taken these positive assessments seriously. And, of course, that's how we're going to do it, absolutely nothing else. And that is why, of course, I am also optimistic about the safety of citizens and citizens and of course of all the people of Slovenia. In doing so, of course, the police always take into account the laws as well, so by law they work, and of course they also have very strong control. And also here, I must say that it is noted that the police are doing well, that they are doing legitimately, and also with some individual anomalies we know how to deal with and we will be in the future. Of course, they must also respect all the professional standards that apply in this area. There is no reason, but there really is no reason for this area that we are dealing with today to be eliminated or treated in any other way or that, as someone mentioned, we simply overlook it. That's not true. Of course, this is subject to the same rules as investigating any other crime we encounter or investigate. And I think it's the right thing to do; the only way, of course, is not only to achieve the right goals, but, of course, to do it legally. And every procedure we conduct must, of course, be legal. I can assure once again here in this House what I think is the Minister at the committee meeting, that no one has ever affected the police in the sense of not investigating any crime, and also these, I will say, these data, these information we are talking about today. And so, I can assure you, it will be in advance. What is somehow evident to the Government, not to support these proposals, is simply that what I have just said is that it is the responsibility of the police to investigate these matters, that state authorities are obliged to do so and that state authorities are also doing so. [[…]] And so, of course, it is also a question of whether it makes sense, whether any effect has any effect, something that someone is obliged to do; something that this Parliament, too, notes, is doing well, now accepting additional views, demands that it do what it has to and does. With regard to the specific case referred to, of course, as far as this is concerned, I might say that even in the introduction I made it very clear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the Ministry of the Interior requires that all information on the security-related issues, including the existence and possession of alleged killings by the former State Security Service, be checked – be absolutely clear. [[…]] And that, of course, is also what I want to point out here. As it is said, in this case, which was mentioned; I will, of course, point out once again the fact that this person was in the back-up composition of the then Koper Public Security Administration, since 6. Seven. 1969 to 1981, and it was with 19 other persons, we were able to determine this, was in this auxiliary unit of the then militia and that they also took over part of the equipment, uniforms and backpacks and other matters. In this unit, there were members of the reserve unit, the responsibility for deploying personnel in the JNA reserve or militia was, of course, under the responsibility of the Secretariat for Human Defence at that time. And we also addressed to the Ministry of Defence the question to which responsibility this person was also assigned, by clarifying whether he was in this militia unit or was in a unit that was, as it was said, also within the framework or functioning of the State Security Service. And of course we'll clear that up. And the investigation itself will be thorough and, of course, we will find out exactly where the weapon came from, where it came from, and so on. So there's no fear of investigating it. As far as one of the discussers is concerned, he also mentioned that crimes are committed with illegal weapons. [[…]] Yes, of course, it's something quite common. I must say, all acts of terrorism are carried out to the greatest extent by weapons or other means from the black market. This is always the case, especially organised crime works in this way. And that's why it's important to discover and investigate all these possible sources, the channels through which such weapons come into our country. And that's one of the priorities of the police. And it is precisely the fact that we have a good system of control over legal weapons that confirms that very little or almost nothing is done with this – because all checks have been carried out because people have been verified and so on. And this is important, and this is one of the important tasks of the countries. And in the end, I would only say once more and specifically stress – the police are not and will not protect anyone and there will be no cover-up and all this information, indications, documents will be examined and investigated. As for these lists, on which there are 7,000 pieces of weapons or various means of murder and so on, all of this will be investigated. And in the end, we will be able to discuss these issues peacefully in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chief. The text is also given by the representative of the Magi's proposer. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u108	Dear colleagues, colleagues, the representative of the government! Political science teaches the following: that as long as there are taboos of topics in one country that are not desirable or practically impossible to discuss seriously, analytically, this country is not fully democratic. And in Slovenia, unfortunately, taboo themes exist. Anyone who claims otherwise knows he's not telling the truth. One taboo on which it is most undesirable to discuss seriously is the issue of the former secret political police SDV, Udba, whatever we call it. Why? Because the foundation of the former regime was not a party, as is often plainly said, the foundation of power was the secret political police, which was not governed by laws and which was subject to a system that was special after the then divisive and biased laws, which had different material assets that operated differently from all other societies. It is interesting that she was allowed entrepreneurship in socialism, and therefore most of those major enterprises that were actually created in the previous regime, including financial, including tourism, are in fact derived from the system of the former Udba. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, since this is also the foundation of material power, leverage is also the present authority, it is a taboo topic, it is not desirable to discuss it seriously. You have proved this in some ways today, and before that, many mainstream media. And I regret that. Why? The moment the issue of the former Judgment opens up, even when it comes to security, even when it comes to the issue of the lives of people, citizens and citizens, suddenly on the left, their media is stifled only by ridicule, the threshold, it does not want to be seriously debated. You have also presented this wonderfully to the Slovenian public today in this hall. Because bad you know it's a bad thing. Those of you who are a little older, who have actually been working in the previous system, of course know why this relationship is. Because this is the foundation of your authority, the foundation that has remained practically intact from the previous regime. Also, unfortunately, thanks to the naive generosity of the Demos government, which sent people from the then SDV to a large extent to peace instead of sending them somewhere to work so that they would not have any time left for intrigue and stupidity. Then how do they look at these taboos of darkness when you open them here, you've shown many of us today, unfortunately, with the level of your debate. Some of the debates that went in style to make it clear that all of this was invented, that it was a conspiracy theory, sorry, it was like someone just from the moon flew in here into this hall, and it was on his head. If you've fallen from the moon today I'm in the hall on your head, you're forgiven for this level of discussion. But if you are not, it is unacceptable in a democratic country to discuss serious matters in this way. For, ladies and gentlemen, only from summer till this year, three people died under the fire of former Udba or SDV. In a few months. Another officer was seriously injured. Is there anyone else who wants to laugh? To talk about the fact that this organization wasn't there or that it wasn't professional, you know it's not real. This organization was extremely strong and extremely interconnected. It acted on the mafia principle of silence, and the documents on it were largely destroyed. Unfortunately, some, even after the new authorities have taken over the ministries or actually take the reins of power – after, of course, a democratic break in early 1990. It was then that the most hasty was the destruction of documents; they were not only burned, as is often said. I have the testimony of people who have experienced that a huge truck, a large truckload of documentation from the State Security Service there in Lepenko in Tržič, sent it to the mill, and it's been there for so long – with guns and everything you make up – until there's nothing left but porridge. When the rest was mush, they cleaned up; there was no delivery, no document, only the rest was mush. And all the data we have today has actually been as documented as it has been in a recent period. For example, at the time of the existence of the government 2004 to 2008, then the employees or service leaders we call Sova today said that what was there was only a touch of the Slovenians, who were working for the former country in a democratic, conscious, national-conscious way. And there was everything else. And only after these documents have they been actually dedicated in the last few years to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and thus have some facts been revealed. These facts, however, should not only raise the concerns of all of you, as officials, as Members and Members, as members of the Government responsible for the security of these people in every serious country, but should also, logically, raise the attention of the services who, by virtue of their statutory function, have the duty to investigate any serious indication of the existence of a criminal offence or a violation of the law. And there is no doubt that the existence of a documented existence with credible documents from the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia is 7,000 pieces of the murder weapon, a wide variety of weapons, automatic weapons, explosives, various toxins, everything you invent to destroy human life and health – the reason why someone should face it seriously. If you didn't know about this before, it's time now. Reference is made to the fact that, even from that period, a number of documents have been destroyed during the transitional period of the takeover of the new authorities, twice. Firstly, the responsibility of all those who have done so should be put to the question. Secondly, because there is no proper documentation, we solved the committee I run by asking people that we asked for their testimony. They really didn't come to Parliament to testify, but we did get the written testimony you have attached, and some are additional if you want them available in the archive of the Commission. Just as all the remaining documents, which have already been sent to the competent services without exception, are not specifically attached to this proposal. All this is available to you, these are not secret documents, because they were dealt with at a public meeting and are from the archives. But they are authentic documents, ladies and gentlemen. And that's why it's unacceptable to say that they're not even going to do this job. If anyone wanted to spread what you were trying to do here today, it was, I don't know, a conspiracy theory invented by Ladies and Gentlemen, within a few months three people were killed by the rebels in Slovenia. [[…]] Well, another cop got hurt pretty bad. In one of these cases, a weapon was used that has all the characteristics of the one used by the former Resurrection. However, it is true whether it was taken directly from one bunker or perhaps earlier rounded slightly around the black market and was obtained from the black market. The characteristics of this weapon are such that there can hardly be any doubt as to how it came into the hands of a former member of the State Security Service or a domestic janitor who then used it for cruel crimes. And if no one wanted to take this seriously before, we should take this seriously. Everything has to be investigated. Today we heard, just now, the Secretary of State, who said, "we're going to investigate all of this." And I'm asking the question, ladies and gentlemen, why, one year since we sent you all this material, you haven't gone to those locations, looked, checked, asked people, tried to track down what's left to track today? There's probably nothing to be done about the distance, but there's definitely something else that can still be found. But it's always about time in Slovenia. When it came to the most brutal postwar crimes — these are not war crimes, these are murders — people were expected to die, they were no longer accounted for, and nothing was done. And now it's the same thing. Only the existence of these killings is a threat in itself. Some of you said, "Yes, but now you've got a migrant attached." Ladies and gentlemen, this is not what we as proponents did, it is what the gentleman on the left did. Leftist Kordiš began to gossip about migrants behind the speaker's desk, and all that was debated in this direction was just a reaction to his debate. But he probably already knew why he opened it. It is also interesting that he has shown a great deal of knowledge about weapons, given that they are otherwise declared as a peacekeepers and I do not know what, very interesting. Well, the question of whether it is possible to say that it was a co-conspirator of the Judgment, that it was a strong dilemma, what is proved and what is not, was largely answered by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which ruled in a legal judgment that the lists published in the microfilms found at the time at the Ministry of the Interior and then forwarded further were also published in a literary form, that these lists were credible, that they could be trusted and trusted. [[...]] That's what you say, don't say you don't know who was there. The only dilemma you've set forth was the question of perfect coders, what code itself means. Most people know exactly what they're talking about. The worst were the ones we call "fine" in the nickname – they had the marks from the 5's themselves because they were professional, paid adbrasses. Others, however, played different roles. And there are coders for that; if they're not perfect, if they've been destroyed, I'm sure there's somewhere else, the question is just how to get to them. Just like all the other documents. As we know that these documents have been made in copies and we know that they exist in Belgrade, the question of what about the archives in Belgrade that we are talking about today may well be clarified on their own. But when we suggested that this would make Serbia's accession closer to the European Union, you were against it because you don't want to know the truth or know it, and you're afraid of it. You decide for yourself, but these are the only two reasons you can do this. And I personally think that it is different if we were to sum up the knowledge that is among Slovenian leftists about these stories, if everyone still living from yours spoke, of course we would have a completely clear picture of everything. And that's what you're afraid of, and that's what I believe you're afraid of. And I honestly believe that you're very afraid, probably more than anything else, so I often say that if left-handed people are most afraid of anything, they're afraid of the truth. And that's why the truth is hate speech to them because they hate it. Therefore, I do not ask you to say that you do not know what someone has done or that you cannot determine what is happening to a particular subject if that is what you would like to do. The problem is you just want to. And then, of course, you see the whole picture, then there's no taboo of the topic, and then Slovenia becomes a democratic state. And let me finish where I started. With the words of Havel: "A nation that is not prepared to face its past and its challenges honestly has no future." And don't be afraid to open these things to anyone. It's threatening that these things aren't open. But the truth is in the modern world because of the media that are available, I do not mean, of course, the central media that are a problem for themselves in Slovenia, but the media that are accessible to everyone, with the internet at the head of the Truth, can no longer be stopped, it can be hampered. [[…]] The truth is like a stream, and sooner or later it pierces every fence, and it comes on a day. Only if the obstruction of the flow of truth results in fatalities, as has happened in Slovenia – because I say that if these things were seriously investigated, it would be much less likely that the tragedies that have happened would ever happen – then the question of responsibility is also raised. Because in some cases it is more than obvious to me that the law has not been consistently respected — after all we know, after all that has been published, after all that I have been able to obtain from the available information. How can someone have a legal weapon for self-defense if there's no more reason to carry a weapon, by law, should it stop? First question. Second question. How can someone known as a bully be involved in multiple robberies, including armed robbery, and no one notices that he has a weapon back home? He got it somewhere. He must have tried it somewhere. Nobody noticed anything. Is it true that this man was controlled by the same criteria as in other similar cases? I don't know. I'm not sure. But there should be a very serious investigation into how this man got to the weapons, who helped him and whether someone abandoned the mandatory actions that led to the worst consequences. I only hope that these investigative actions will be carried out properly, just as I hope that the Government will keep the word given today by the Secretary of State and that these things will finally be properly explored on the ground and in all other ways – through discussions with individuals and so on – to the extent possible. In order to minimise the danger posed by these killing materials to humans, and to make it very clear, at the same time, that no one is untouchable anymore, that the members of the former Judgment are subject to the same laws, under the same conditions and in the same manner as all others. Because then I am sure that no one will ever again think that even if, in their personal opinion, the victims of some kind of misconduct or bad circumstance, such as the actual existence of waiting lines – which is just a problem for themselves and which is the responsibility of another minister, of course – would be a real problem — but that no one else would have thought that he had the right to take the right and the right to take the life of someone else. But I believe that those people who did this, at least those two, believed that they had this right, because in their former society they actually had it, and there are thousands more people like that. And that would make such a message so precious. Such a message would be a message of the existence of the rule of law in itself. And, ladies and gentlemen, those who might still want to mock this, remember that you were all elected together by swearing to the consistent respect of laws, the Constitution and the rule of law. And the fundamental constitutional postulate is that there are laws for all, for all in the same way and that there can be no exceptions here. Ladies and gentlemen, security is a value, one and indivisible. It is primarily the responsibility of those who have the executive power and, in the second instance, all those who represent its coalition in Parliament. And we will continue to carry out our duties as the opposition by monitoring and alerting to real problems. If you ignore them and therefore the worst consequences, as in this case, be aware that you are responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. The time for discussion has not passed, and under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure you still have the opportunity to discuss. If you also wish to discuss the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Government, please also apply. Please sign up for the debate. Here you are, Mr. Boštjan Šefic, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you very much. For a short time, I just have to answer some of the claims that have been made here, as far as the government's ridicule of security is concerned. I must point out very clearly and once again that, of course, such a claim is not only unrealistic, it is even, I must say, offensive to the Government. This government is very concerned with security, it is very busy and I must say that it also achieves results, but for some periods in the past it is not so clear. But it's a duty, and that's what we're gonna do in the future. Secondly, the relationship between this topic that we are dealing with today and these events in Isola; for the first time, because the investigation is not over, and I also think that we should not make such connections and relations of thought – and this is harmful for security, this is causing intolerance, this is causing fear and, of course, as I said recently, we are afraid to make wrong decisions and we must not do so. And until these matters are over, however, I appeal that we abstain from such assessments. Next thing. I have stressed, and you, too, are a respected proposaler, that of course all of this needs to be explored. And I said that, of course, in the written position given both for the committee meeting, the Government made it very clear that it would insist that all indications, all information be investigated, and exactly as you said, in exactly the same way as for all other indications, suspicions or crimes. And I'm glad we're in the same position here. So there is no doubt here, and I think that the claim that the Government is here is passive and so on is not in place. And of course, as far as this particular case is concerned. Once again, I would like to stress what I have already done – linking with the current State Security Service and imputing such, I will say, categorisation as it has been today, based on the data so far, of course, is not going in this direction, and, of course, if it will, of course, this issue will also be found in the way it should be. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, you didn't sign up. If you have procedural because you can't discuss it, you know. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u112	Because it's just an explanation. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u113	The explanation is not procedural, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u114	The President-in-Office, that I should not now open the facts, who was all of the members of the State Security Service in the former Yugoslavia, will be very amusing. And who sent a letter to start the creation of the first party in Slovenia by all means, including by using the worst force.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u115	You missed the topic, Mr Grimes, it's not procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u116	If I tell you who was signed under this letter, you'll be very shocked, maybe you'll see him in the mirror sometime. But now, if you want it to always be so that the proposer and the government apply separately, that's why I didn't apply to the button, but I raised my hand. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u117	Mr Grimes, I read that if you want to discuss the proposaler and the representative of the government, sign up with a key.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u118	Mr. Hainz, do I have to continue where I left off? About the associates of the former State Security Service? Because this is going to be an extremely interesting debate while you're leading the session. I suggest that we avoid this because of, say, Parliament's integrity.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u119	So your procedural proposal is?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u120	Yes, to find that letter that you once signed as the secretary of the city SZDL, which you sent to the former founding assembly or the founding congress of SDSS, you will see what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u121	Of course, this letter is not going to be a mistake. Mr. Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u122	Mr Vice-President, I propose that you teach the applicant when and how procedural application is made. Especially when he's harassing us with this institute and explaining that he's going to announce who all of them were members of the State Security Service. Find them among your species. One even sits right here in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u123	Mr Grimes heard that, so I think that's true. Okay, I am concluding a general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the 17th item of the agenda. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 4:50 p.m. in half an hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u124	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on chimney services under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 17. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with paragraph 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds within the framework of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, none of whom voted against 73. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 73.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as the parent working body, will consider the proposal of the law in second reading and prepare a proposal for a law to be examined at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the illegal possession of murder funds in the possession of former members of the State Security Service. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the illegal possession of murder funds in the possession of former members of the State Security Service is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u125	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote against the conclusion that the proposed material is not suitable for further consideration, as such a decision is literally in the face of facts, documents, three fatalities this autumn, killed by members of the former SDV and all their relatives, as well as by the wounded policeman. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how serious things work, because the fact is that there are documents found in the Republic of Slovenia Archives, of course, only after they were sent from the former service, that is to say in the last decade. These documents show that in Slovenia there are around 7,000 pieces of various murder weaponry – from explosive means of great power, incendiary mines, then sniper rifles, automatic weapons, various weapons with silencers, and then special weapons for killing – which at the time of the collapse of the totalitarian system were not committed to new authorities at the beginning of 1990 or in the middle of 1990, nor were they committed to institutions that were responsible, nor were the Commission destroyed. This is proved by documents, which is verified by credible testimony from witnesses — key people who were in one or another function during the period. All of this has been made with a proposal for recommendations whose essential content is such that it is absolutely unbelievable that someone would say that they will not support it or that this is not appropriate for further consideration. For all that was proposed was that the National Assembly should recommend to the Government, without delay, to take measures to ensure the detection of chemical and other means of killing for mass and secret destruction by which the SDV was documented and not committed or destroyed by the Commission. That's what they say. It's recommended that the law be respected. And then we continue to propose a second recommendation to determine the responsibility of the people who should act on duty. You all know that negligence in the performance of a function or official duty is a crime in itself. Especially if it has the worst consequences, which there are indications that they have actually been. In addition to sanctioning, those who have not acted or who have abandoned their responsibilities, which is a crime in itself. The content of the second recommendation is therefore to respect the law. It's all documented, there's been casualties, there's been the worst consequences. And you say, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u126	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour and 21 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and therefore the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 21st annual report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 with a proposal for a recommendation. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation to the 21st annual report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 for whom there was a vote, and no one was against it. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Defence Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The draft law on amendments to the Defence Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present and 70 were voted against and three were present. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the core has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Forests is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you, President, for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, good-bye! The transporters were placed in the Law on Forests by one of the previous governments, but the fact is that the minister of the current – Minister of Agriculture Mag. Diane Jedhan. Fortunately for the carriers, a natural accident occurred in Slovenia when it destroyed or started destroying a large part of Slovenian forests. As Minister of the Jews did not act in due time, the problem of the cyclist arose. And for an accident in Slovenian forests, Minister Židan also set up his client company Slovenian National Forests. But the trucks stayed. There'd be only one left. 1. 2017, if the SDS Group did not file a law and wish to abolish the carriers. We believe that this measure is absolutely necessary if we are to burden the farmer with administrative work and even after 1. 1. 2017 to enable him to deal with what he is also supposed to do – with cutting in the woods. While the government is preparing its proposal for a law, which is being pierced in a pianist way, they will also terminate the carriers. But for the last time in the debate, we have shown you that for the first time carriers remain, but only under another name, under the name of the bookkeeping charter. The fines for farmers also remain, and instead of asking farmers in the morning how to cut down damaged wood from Slovenian forests, they will walk by the subway and see if they have anything loaded, which is more than 10 centimeters thick when they drive wood out of the woods. Given that we know what all carriers are bringing, we think it would be right for all of us to take this step together and give a green light to this bill today. Moreover, the Ministry insisted that in its proposal for a law there are also some other provisions and that the coalition could decide tactfully and support the hybrid in the discussion, because today we are at first reading. And more than that, why do we think we have to stop the vehicles? For even after the termination of the transporters, traceability will remain in the Slovenian forests. Each farmer will have to have a decision of the Institute for Forests on logging and a charter on the use and transport of forest and wood assortments. But this government acts the exact opposite of what it says; it speaks of debirocraticism, and in practice it criminalizes and adds additional bureaucratic work to the Slovenian farmer. In short, if you want the Slovenian farmer well, if you want to benefit those who deal with logging in Slovenian forests, you will support this bill as we will in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u128	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u129	Mr President, thank you for saying so. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! Let me point out that, of course, forests need to be spoken of with respect. In a way, it's our greatest fortune by the water. In this way, we have also reached out to the Joint Meeting of the Modern Centre. Remember only the Forest Management Act, where we have in every way established a comprehensive solution for managing state forests. In any case, forest legislation must be seen as a top priority, and in any way, the Forest Act is a umbrella law that solves forest issues for all forests; not only for the state, but also for the private. And from this point of view, I believe that a roofing approach to amending this law is needed here and does not come with solutions that touch only one partial solution, in this case the abolition of carriers. By all means, we will support the abolition of the carriers in some way. However, I certainly think that we need to come to a system law that will translate the elements of good legal practice under the Forest Management Act owned by the Republic of Slovenia into this umbrella Forest Act. Here I am thinking mainly about the establishment of forest-forest chains and so-called wood harvesting and processing centres. Since this marriage solution offered by the SDS party does not solve the matter in a comprehensive, systematic and comprehensive manner, for these reasons, we will not support the modern centre of this law in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u130	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 20 for them and 50 for them. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda, this is Mandating-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing an advocate of the principle of equality. On 7 October 2016, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that Mr Miho Lobnik be appointed as an advocate of the principle of equality. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs Natashi Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u131	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The President of the Republic of Slovenia, following the publication of the call for proposals for possible candidates and candidates for the principle of equality, received 11 proposals. One candidate stepped down during the procedure by electing the President among the following 10 candidates or candidates: mag. Grandma Gabrielle, mag. Fatty Matjam, Dr. Horjak Marjeto, Kofol Alen, Lobnik Mihom, Prof. Dr. Ramšak Mojco, Sitar Jožet, Old Matjaž, Vernik Šetinc Boštjan and Vylihaj Marjan. According to the opinion of the candidates, interviewed by all candidates and after consulting the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic decided that the National Council for Equality Advocates would propose to Miho Lobnik, a university-graduate sociologist who, in the framework of his work so far, had gained a few less than ten years of experience in the field of the realization of the principle of equality of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Mr Lobnik fulfils all the conditions required by law for this function. At the time of the study he started work in the field of one of the common circumstances of discrimination. He was the initiator and founder of the Legebitra Youth Group, the first group for the same-sex young people in our country, which under his leadership developed into a visible non-governmental organisation in the field of inequality and developed a programme for the promotion of equal rights in the wider area. At the beginning of his career he also worked in Brussels at the headquarters of the European umbrella organisation of NGOs from all over Europe in the field of equality and sexual orientation. Following his return to Slovenia, he influenced, inter alia, the amendment of legislation to reduce inequalities and eliminate systemic discrimination through his long-standing and consensus-based approaches. Between 2007 and 2013, as a consultant to the student organisation, he dealt with the accessibility of state scholarships and the social accessibility of studies, thus solving a number of problems in the wider area of tackling inequality and discrimination. Since 2013, she has been working as programme director at the Legebitra Information Centre in order to advise and support people in distress due to certain or more personal circumstances. He is also active in the field of advocacy. For the last two years, he has successfully led and completed the international partnership project of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism Response to HIV. During the public debate on the adoption of the new family code and the referendum debate that followed, despite the difficult situation and the different systemic approaches, he defended his views by calming down and respecting others. Mr Lobnik also attached his view and vision to the work and development of the Advocate for Equality, which you have also received from Members and Members. As he also stressed in the public presentation, his fundamental vision is a dialogue with civil society, which creates a field of equal opportunities and dialogue with decision makers, while adding that progress is possible only in consensus. He is convinced that any discrimination of an individual is equally severe and therefore the Advocate must be absolutely open to equal treatment of the circumstances of all types of discrimination. In the last 20 years, Miha Lobnik has demonstrated, inter alia, that his activities and media performance are constructive, that he is capable of horizontal integration with different civil society groups, different public and different political actors. The proposal for Mr Lobnik's candidacy as an advocate of the principle of equality was supported by a personal signature by 59 candidates and candidates from various spheres of social life in Slovenia with the first-signed Dr. Tanja Rener and Dr. Mirjano Ule. On the basis of consultations with the heads of the parliamentary groups, it can be reasonably concluded that the candidate also has the necessary majority support for the appointment. Mr Lobnik is also the only candidate to show such support. All of this, together with his experience as President of the Republic, convinces Miha Lobnik to perform the proposed function successfully and therefore proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint him as an advocate of the principle of equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u132	The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary-General, Members and Members of Parliament! The mandate-voluntary commission shall be held at the 26th ordinary session of 13. Ten. 2016 as a parent working body considered the proposal to appoint an advocate of the principle of equality. The National Assembly is 21. 4. 2016 adopted the Anti-Discrimination Act which entered into force 24. 5. 2016, and after that, the National Assembly was given the power to appoint an advocate of the principle of equality. The law on protection against discrimination in a transitional provision provides for a six-month period for the appointment of a lawyer in accordance with the provisions of this Act. The legal basis for the appointment of an advocate is Article 23 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination, which provides that he appoints the Advocate to the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic and also lays down the conditions for the person to be appointed to that office. Under the first paragraph of Article 23, a person may be appointed who, on the day of the public call, fulfils the following conditions: has the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia, has a university education in a social or humanistic direction or a high professional education in the same direction as a specialist or a Master's degree or an education in the same direction acquired under the second degree study programme in accordance with the law governing higher education, has at least five years of work experience, of which at least three years in the field of the exercise of the principle of equality or human rights and fundamental freedoms, is not a member of the political parties' authorities, has not been sentenced to unconditional imprisonment and is not in criminal proceedings for an offence which is prosecuted under official obligation. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 23 of the Anti-Discrimination Act, the defence counsel shall be appointed for a period of five years and may be reappointed no more than once. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 26 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination, the National Assembly must vote on the proposed candidate for defence within 30 days of the submission of the reasoned proposal by the President of the Republic. As has already been warned, it is 7. Ten. 2016 The President of the Republic also submitted a nomination. The proposal by the President of the Republic is reasoned, accompanied by the written agreement of the candidate to the Republic's candidacy, the President of the Republic bases his proposal for the appointment of Miha Lobnik as an advocate of the principle of equality on the basis of a description of his work experience, organisational and managerial skills and of his broader social activities in the field of the implementation of the principle of equality and the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms both in Slovenia and abroad. Ms Nataša Kovač, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, also participated in the meeting of the Commission, which further explained the proposal, as today. She also responded to some of the Commission's comments raised in the debate, highlighting the candidate's past patient, interrelated and constructive social activity as those of the candidate who had further convinced the President of the Republic that he would be successful in his role as advocate. She stressed that, on the basis of the consultations already held with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, it was reasonable to conclude that the candidate had the necessary majority support for the appointment and that his candidacy had also supported a large number of individuals and individuals, including some prominent individuals from different spheres of social life. The candidate does not have experience in just one area of discrimination and, on the basis of his clearly expressed view of the work of the equality body, it can be expected that all forms of discrimination will be treated equally and impartially. In the debate, representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group presented the reasons why the proposal by the President of the Republic would not be supported. The proposed candidate, because of his previous political engagement and candidateship on the list of one of the political parties, does not, in their view, create an appearance of impartiality and is therefore not suitable for the function of advocate of the principle of equality. On the other hand, representatives of the parliamentary groups of the Modern Centre Party and the Social Democrats expressed support for the proposed candidate. Taking into account the above-mentioned Rules of Procedure, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 23 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a decision be taken on the appointment of an Advocate of the principle of equality by which Miha Lobnik is appointed an Advocate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u134	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u135	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, the distinguished Secretary-General of the Cabinet of the President of the State! This is where we adopted the Protection against Discrimination Act, which entered into force on 24 May this year. The law establishes, as an independent body, an institution to promote the principle of equality. Much has been said about this at the time of the consideration of this law, and I will focus only on candidate Miho Lobnik, who, after consulting the candidates, proposed him for election as President of the Republic of Borut Pahor. Also in the Desus Group, we held presentations meetings at the request of some candidates. With his vision of dialogue with civil society, approach and work plan, Miha Lobnik convinced us exactly what he is talking about today. In our view, Lobnik meets all the criteria for best performing the duties of the guardian of equality, but we are particularly pleased that the candidate is well aware that there should be no priority in the fight against discrimination. As he himself pointed out, the advocate must be open to all circumstances that may give rise to discrimination. The opposition SDS has already expressed strong opposition to the candidate on the committee responsible. The following was heard: the candidate for the principle of equality is a leftist official and LGBT activist. Is that why he will be able to follow the principles of equality? Indeed, Lobnik has already set up a group as a student for the same-sex young Legebitra, and has also advocated the adoption of a family code, which was even opposed by members of Desus. However, in the Group of Members, we strongly support Mih Lobnik as an advocate of equality, as we are confident that his previous work experience on the principle of equality and human rights and freedoms will help him achieve the objectives set. After all, his 15-year stand for the rights of same-sex couples only took effect. A historic step forward has been taken, and we believe that it will do the same in eliminating all forms of discrimination. Last but not least, we are convinced that in the case of any other candidate who in the past would be an advocate of the rights of other minorities, there would be no such opposition. Just because no one would dare to oppose it publicly and as engaged as it is in the running of Miha Lobnik. We are confident that the advocate will follow the principle that all people are born equal and free and have equal dignity and equal rights. In the Desus Group we will support the proposal, and Mihi Lobnik we want much success in putting the body on its feet, forming an expert team and, of course, combating various forms of discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u136	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u137	Dear President, Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenije, we opposed the introduction of a new institution to the same possibilities when considering the proposal for protection against discrimination. At that time, we warned that the new office would constitute a new cost for the state budget. The assessment of the necessary resources for the operation of the Office is around EUR 200 000 and this money represents a lot of potential state scholarships that students are not and will not receive. We believe that Christian Democrats should be in the position of advocate of the principle of equality, a person who has proven to be sensitive and understandable to all social groups and their rights through his past public action. However, it is not appropriate to refer to this place as an activist of only one social group. For example, how will he fully and sincerely defend the rights of social groups that he has opposed in his work so far? In New Slovenia, we need to reiterate that in early 2015 the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution on discrimination against Christians in Europe, where it specifically stresses the problem of Christians being discriminated against in the workplace and in the public on the grounds of their beliefs. Representatives of the Slovenian National Assembly at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe did not even vote on this resolution at the time. With all that is happening in our country, there is a fear that the defender of the present left government will help to silence and discipline those who disagree with her ideology, and we are Christians in particular. In our view, this new body has a specific purpose, similar to the KPK, to discipline other thinking citizens. Also financially, with incredibly high penalties. At the time of the adoption of the law, New Slovenia proposed several amendments to normalise the law and, above all, to allow freedom of speech and conscience. We believed that the coalition had a good purpose in dialogue to regulate the area by genuinely protecting the weaker. Unfortunately, though, it is really an ideological attack on other thinking citizens. We will certainly closely monitor his work and the work of his office and we will publicly warn about any mistakes in their work, but Members of New Slovenia cannot give a vote "for".
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u138	The text is addressed to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u139	Good afternoon. As of today, we are really only realizing what the National Assembly has already decided in the past, which is that it has established by law a body with which we will control what the principle of equality is in our possession. And we will deal with this primarily with an independent body – I stress this for those who have not understood or yet do not understand what they voted on when we discussed the law – and in this way, of course, we have introduced what we have been missing for several years. We are pleased at the Modern Centre Party in particular that the procedure has been carried out as it must under law. For if we refresh the memory of the past, the procedure for appointing the predecessor, when we had him in 2008, was very discriminatory, as the authorities found in the process itself. At that time, the call was filed and two of them ran — Domen Zupan and Boštjan Vernik Šetinc — and later it was determined by the Labour Inspectorate that in the selection process there was, carefully, discrimination in the public tender on the basis of conviction. Ironically, this happened right in a position that was supposed to prevent or oversee this from happening. That is why we have been so much more careful in the process that we have before us today, and we are concluding it. Especially if we see who is actually the most opposed to this body today to have it. Indeed, it has been proven that both Domen Zupan and the then Director of the Office, Mrs Radlova, were members of the SDS. Well, we have a new future ahead of us. And what is it that some still do not distinguish today, what is the Ombudsman and what is an advocate of the principle of equality and, above all, here differ in one matter that we say that if the Ombudsman is human rights, he does not have the authority to the private sector, so he cannot intervene in cases where the rights are infringed by a private enterprise for example; in such cases he can only exert pressure. [[…]] In contrast, the applicant may even introduce inspection controls. And this is the news that, in fact, all segments of society are covered with which the advocate will be able to do his job. Whether he will do his job well — and instead of making certain assessments today — we will have the opportunity to see the first report, which will be in April and later every year or, if necessary, sooner, and then our work will be to speak our word. Until then, of course, we support the candidate and all congratulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u140	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already pointed out at the consideration of the Discrimination Protection Act adopted by the National Assembly in May this year that the introduction of an advocate of the principle of equality as a stand-alone body is unnecessary, especially since it is a matter of substantive duplication with the work already carried out by the Ombudsman in his duties. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that such a form as we have had so far is quite appropriate. For so far, the advocate of the principle of equality has acted under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and given that, as President of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I have had at least a partial look at the work of the current advocate of the principle of equality, Mr Boštjan Vernik Šetinc, who has participated several times in our Commission for Human Rights, I can say that the work has been done properly and normally in discussions, and I must say this, he has pointed out to various cases and forms of discrimination. Mr Vernik Šetinc was also among the ten candidates who applied for an invitation to a new advocate of the principle of equality under the new regime, it is said, under the auspices of the action as a single body, but Mr Borut Pahor, President of the State, has made it difficult for Mr Šetinc to carry out his work impartially and to care for all those who have been discriminated against. We can rightly expect a selective approach to dealing with alleged discrimination and see this as a problem in the Slovenian Democratic Party. At the time of consideration of the Protection against Discrimination Act, we also proposed that, if the new form of action of the Advocate of the principle of equality was already taking place, it would be more appropriate or the most appropriate form of action within the framework of the Ombudsman. Why? Since the Ombudsman already has all the appropriate infrastructure, he has a team formed, four deputies are said to cover the area of discrimination. And that would also, a well-respected coalition, be the most rational in financial terms and substantively appropriate. However, if we already have such a form of advocate of the principle of equality, then there must be a person on such a function who does not devote his work only to a group of people who are supposed to be discriminated against but must have the same criteria for all. Discrimination does not exist only in same-sex couples. The principles of equality must ensure that the right to equal treatment is respected and that, in fact, when discrimination occurs, it protects and draws attention to discrimination. Who is Mr Miha Lobnik, who was elected by the President of the State as the new advocate of the principle of equality or proposed to the National Assembly? This is an activist in the field of same-sex politics. He was most involved in supporting the family code, which later fell to the referendum. Last but not least, I have already said, he was also a candidate for an MP on the Alliance's list, Alenka Bratušek, it is said, he was certainly, or a politically profiled person, and as such would be difficult to be impartial. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the President of the State should choose a politically unprofiled candidate and one in which there is no doubt in the shadows that he will do his work impartially and that he will draw attention to all forms of discrimination, and not just to protect a narrow group of people who are supposed to be discriminated against. We cannot support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party because of these arguments that I have just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-25-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u142	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing an advocate of the principle of equality, by which Mr Miha Lobnik is appointed as an advocate of the principle of equality for a period of five years. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 54 for them and 14 for them. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I congratulate the advocate of the principle of equality on his appointment and wish him a successful job. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Council for Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Council for Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 53 for whom there was a vote, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in investing in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 70 of whom voted in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the District Court Notice in Celje, Criminal Investigation Department, on the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ambassador Janez Janša. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Celje, the Criminal Investigation Department, for consideration by the assembly. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the Court of Justice in Celje, Criminal Investigation Section, IK 14840/2016 of 22. 9. On the initiation of criminal proceedings against Member John Janša for the suspicion of a criminal offence under Article 185, paragraph 2, and Article 185, of the Penal Code, he shall not grant immunity to Member John Janša. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 71 votes in favour, one against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the District Court Notice in Celje, Criminal Investigation Department, on the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ambassador Janez Janša. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Celje, the Criminal Investigation Department, for consideration by the assembly. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the Court of Justice in Celje, Penal Investigation Section, IK 14855/2016 of 22. 9. On the initiation of criminal proceedings against Member John Janša for the suspicion of a criminal offence under Article 185, paragraph 2, and Article 185, of the Penal Code, does not grant immunity to Member John Janša. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 71 for whom there was a vote, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item as well as the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly.
