ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good morning and good morning! Starting the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Jelka Godec, Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Anita Koleša from 14:00 on, Nada Brinovšek, Marjana Kotnik Poropat, Dr. Milan Brglez until 13:00, Saša Tabaković from 14:00 on, Igor Zorčič from 15:00 on, Ivan Škodnik, Danilo Anton Ranc, Bojan Podkrodšek, Miha Kordiš, Dr. Wine Gorenak, Tomaž Gantar, Tomaž Lisec, mag. Branko Grims, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Roberto Battelli, Franc Laj, Franc Jurša, Uroš Prikl until 3 p.m. and Mag. Matthew Tonin from 2.30 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS TO THE LAW ON CONCERNED WAR TERRITORY AND THE MORNING OF THE VICTIMS. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already warned, when adopting the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, that in practice there will be behaviours that are not always in accordance with the principles of criminal procedure. We have also warned that in practice there will be evidence of material and technical shortcomings and of the rules of that law. We also warned back then that the law was not appropriate in terms of respect for the dignity of the victims. The law stems from exactly the same substantive origins as the 2003 law, which caused members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Members of the New Slovenia to obstruct the vote, because we did not want to participate in such adoption, which interferes with the dignity and integrity of the victims and their relatives. In these matters, which, respectable colleagues and colleagues, are key to the nation's being, we remain, unlike some other parties, in principle today. With the amendment of the law that we have tabled in the SDS Group in the process, we want to address the shortcomings that have proved in practice, that is, in the event of excavations. According to the case-law of excavations or in the case of sea-clearing procedures, the detection and prosecution authorities and the investigating judge are not always present, in order to prevent such proceedings from being carried out in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings. The law exempts such mass and systematic war crimes from the system of criminal law and leaves them to the discretionary decisions of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve the issues of hidden graves. This represents a marked denial of the rule of law and a violation of the principle that we are all equal before the law and that criminal law should be applied to all equally. We cannot therefore agree in the SDS that mass and systematic war crimes committed after the war would be exempt from criminal liability, in particular for the civilian population. This is a crime which is not obsolete and which has been criminalised by the then applicable Geneva Convention. However, the situation is completely incompatible with the existing civilisation standards, or the state afforded by the law currently in force. Let me explain. Take Srebrenica, for example. There the law enforcement authorities identified criminal liability. Also in Srebrenica, each victim was identified and buried in his baptism. In the burials that have been carried out on behalf of Slovenian countries in recent times on the basis of the current law, there is absolutely nothing in the way of a pietic and civilisational attitude towards the victims, which were buried with a large media pump such as Dobrava pri Maribor. In particular, relatives and those who do not care about how the victims of postwar seas are treated have been warned and still warn that the burial of the remains with the exception of one baptism takes place in plastic bags, as if it were building material, not the remains of people who also deserve a decent burial, as dictated by basic civilisation standards. We have therefore proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party a amendment to the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, with which we want to establish a legal basis for the implementation of maritime validation procedures in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings, and it will be mandatory for the investigation of any new detection or excavations to be carried out by the crime detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary, since this is a crime scene or crime scene and for the victims who have been killed and they must be treated exactly as other murdered persons. However, the criminal procedure must not, of course, impede the procedures of a decent burial, but in any case, at least the evidence enabling the continuation of criminal proceedings and the determination of liability must be protected. We therefore want a precise dictatorship in the writing of the law without such or other interpretations or possibilities and in particular without discretion, which under the current law belongs to the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, as a proponent, I ask you to support the amendment of the law and thus enable the rule of law to function, respect for the Geneva Conventions and civilisation standards. More than that, as I will continue the debate on behalf of the proposer, according to the views of the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u3	In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mag. Alešu Cantarutti.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I thank you for your word. Allow me to point out some essential points of opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the proposal for a law amending the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims. Members of the bill state that they wish to establish a basis for the procedures for the certification of graves to be carried out in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings by ensuring that all evidence is protected and that criminal detection and prosecution authorities as well as the judiciary are required to cooperate in the proceedings. The government considers that hidden graves as a place of criminal service are already under police investigation and follow-up procedures prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Act. The Government also considers that the legislation implementing the detection and protection of hidden war graves, i.e. the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, the War Cemeteries Act, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Penal Code and the regulations governing the work of the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, is sufficient grounds for the consistent execution of all tasks, including investigations, and of the prosecution of crimes. In the process of detecting hidden military graves, the police are present all the time. Other relevant experts, archaeologists, physical anthropologists, forensics and so on are also involved. The work is carried out under the supervision of the Government Commission to address the issues of hidden graves and police. Also in the case of crossings and probes, i.e. confirmations of the cemetery, because of the crime scene, there is a police presence who, at the same time as carrying out a search or probe, collects new information that develops at the time of the check and at the end of the works on possible new findings and informs the competent state prosecutor of the specific grave. Material remains or all objects found in hidden graves are adequately protected and also subject to archaeological and anthropological analysis. The material resources found in the process of detecting hidden war graves are also one of the sources of the identification of the remains as far as possible. In view of the above, it is totally unnecessary, however, for the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Funeral of Victims to provide that the police, the State Prosecutor's Office or the investigating magistrates must act under the law governing the criminal procedure, since this is clear from the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act when the offence is suspected of the service of which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility. The Government underlines that, in implementing the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, together with the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to address the issues of hidden graves, competent ministries and competent investigative bodies, i.e. the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, we have established an effective way of detecting hidden military graves that enable the law to be implemented successfully, with a focus on ensuring a respectful attitude towards victims and their owners. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the solutions contained in the proposal for a law amending the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, submitted by a group of Members and Members, and proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia the adoption of a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I would also mention this, because at the end of the year, I would first like to thank the Commission for the work done this year, and I think we are successfully carrying out an important task together. This year we have fully completed and implemented the work plan set up, allocated 500 000 euros, and in the following year the Commission is also preparing a report and a financial plan for next year, and a million euros will be allocated for these activities. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u6	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Government Representative, welcome! Have a nice and good day! Today, we are discussing the amendment of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, with which a group of Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party propose to amend Article 9 of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims by means of compulsory and active participation of detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary. The applicant also points out that these are crime scenes and victims who have been killed out of court and must be treated in exactly the same way as others, in accordance with the principles of criminal procedure. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that this would create a false belief that the hidden graves as crime scenes are not the subject of a police investigation today and of further procedures prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Act, and this is quite the opposite. The proposal for a novel is, in a sense, a logical consequence of the many debates that have taken place over the past two years, both in the adoption of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims, as well as in the consideration of the novel of the Law on Cultural Heritage last September. With a similar proposal of content, as discussed today and this April at one of the Commission's thematic meetings on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, which was also dedicated to the implementation of the applicable law on covered war graves and the burial of victims. A year and a half ago, in the debate about the law, there was neither a single coalition nor an opposition. The debate at the parental committee and also at the plenary session of this assembly triggered different responses in all the parliamentary groups. Of course, debates have also been ideologically colored, and this is likely to be the case today. We must stress, however, that in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we have always considered the Law on Covered War Cemeteries and the burial of the victims only as a technical law. Its technical aspect is defined in Article 2 of the Act, which regulates issues and procedures related to the detection of hidden war graves, their marking and registration of these graves in the Register of War Cemeteries and the definitive burial of all victims of war and post-war violence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We can gladly say that we are approaching the goal we set ourselves when we adopt the law a year and a half ago. In July, the government appointed a new commission to address the issues of hidden graves, to confirm the new work programme and the financial plan of the Commission and to provide funds for the implementation of the programme. In its opinion, the Government submitted a comprehensive report on the activities carried out and would therefore not be repeated here, as it will also be an opportunity to exchange more detailed information later in the debate. However, what is important to point out is the fact that already covered graves as crime scenes are subject to police investigation and follow-up in accordance with the Law on Police Responsibilities and Powers, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code. The law in force in Articles 9 and 13 clearly defines the role of the police, the State Prosecutor's Office or the investigating judge in the process of detecting covered military graves. On the basis of all the above, in the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we believe that the amendment of the Law on Covered War Cemeteries and the burial of the victims is in no way suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u7	Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed the Law on Covered War Cemeteries and the Burial of the Victims, or its amendment, because as one of the biggest shortcomings, it has been most demonstrated in the current excavations of remains on the seas, when the remains found do not represent a fact on the basis of which the criminal procedure for the identification of the perpetrators and the cause of the death of the victims would be initiated. Article 9 of the Act allows for discretion as to whether, despite the clear findings of the victims' remains, the criminal procedure is initiated or not. The situation in which the so-called crossing of war crimes victims is carried out is the same as that in which someone finds the deceased remains one or more persons and the law enforcement authorities would not have found the cause of death or even begun the criminal procedure. And that is also when it would be evident from all circumstances that it was a murder or murder or in cases governed by this law, even for a mass, systematic and pre-planned genocide between war and war, which is not obsolete by international conventions or by Slovenian criminal code. With this novel, we want to regulate the shortcomings that have been proven in practice in the implementation of the Law on Covered War Cemeteries and the burial of victims. In the case of excavations or attestation procedures, no detection and prosecution authorities and an investigative judge shall be present, in order to prevent such proceedings from being carried out in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings. The law exempts such mass and systematic war crimes from the criminal law system and leaves them to the discretionary decision of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve the issues of covered graves and law enforcement authorities. It is a gross denial of the rule of law and a violation of the principle that we are all equal before the law and that the law applies to all the same. With this amendment, we would like to point out that we are also alerted to the problems or open issues raised by this law in the context of its legislative consideration in the National Assembly. The law has many shortcomings, both substantive and technical, which need to be re-emphasized and, above all, addressed. In the SDS Group, we already wanted to achieve, with the amendment of the Law on Cultural Heritage, that in any case, when the site was found, the exhumation or exhumation process and identification of victims should be initiated in accordance with the principles of criminal procedure. We have proposed that victims be treated on an equal footing, like all other murdered persons, in accordance with the principle of criminal procedure and the procedure for exhuming the remains of the deceased. The management shall be taken over by the competent authority, which shall be the State Prosecutor's Office, which shall also determine which offences are obsolete in accordance with the principles of criminal and international law and which are not obsolete. With the aim of the proposed law, we want to lay the groundwork for the law governing criminal proceedings in order to ensure that all evidence is protected and that criminal detection and prosecution authorities as well as the judiciary are necessarily involved in the proceedings, because it is a crime scene and for victims who have been killed and must be treated in the same manner as elsewhere, under the principle of criminal procedure. Among those killed are women and children, babies or even pregnant women, for whom it was only fatal to be deported from the camps in Austria. The criminal procedure must not impede the procedures of a decent burial, but at least the evidence enabling the continuation of criminal proceedings and the determination of liability must be protected. It is a matter of ensuring the principle of the rule of law that criminal law applies to all equally and to ensuring the human right to dignity in all procedures and the right to personal dignity of both victims and their property and, of course, security. Thus, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the proposed amendment of the law, we add what has not been done so far, namely to secure evidence and to follow the law governing criminal proceedings. Although we have also heard several times from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the police are engaged in such and different procedures, but in all the history of Slovenia, not one procedure has been completed in all these 25 years, so we are some kind of unikam in Europe and I suppose even wider. We've got a crime, but apparently there's no criminal. By means of this law or a new law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose and lay the groundwork for this crime to also be found a criminal. Of course we'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marinka Levičar is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Ministry's colleagues. Colleagues and colleagues! During the past year, we have talked a lot in this hall about facilities, war graves, and a decent burial. We passed a new law that entered into force on 8 August 2016, and now our colleagues in the SDS would be correcting it again. We did not support the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims because we thought that the existing legislation was sufficient by then. Let me just remind you that in October at the memorial park of the Maribor cemetery of Dobrava, a ceremony was held at the funeral of victims of postwar beatings from the Huda Cave. In doing so, the state has in some way abolished its civil duty, a worthy burial of all victims. As already stated in the Desus Group, we have already said at the time of the adoption of the basic law that it is not necessary, since the old War Cemetery Act regulated everything but was not implemented. Why? There was no need for an action plan, there was no reorganisation of work by abolishing unnecessary administrative procedures and so on, and above all we lacked the will at the time. Today we have a new law that is also being implemented in accordance with the purpose for which it was adopted. Is this law now urgently needed to be amended and complemented, as proposed by the opposition party? In our view, just a quick review of the text of the novel shows a different, distorted view of the history that they so wish to convey to all of us. Terminology already tells us everything, but I'd rather not repeat it. What's the matter with the novelty of marriage anyway? The SDS wants to ensure that detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary participate in the process of digging up the remains. They believe that in the current excavations of the remains, it is not possible to initiate a criminal procedure to identify the perpetrators and the cause of the death of the victims. This is not true, of course, since all the proposed rules already apply to the Criminal Procedure Act, and the new law has also established a sufficiently effective system for detecting hidden military graves, which also ensures a respectful attitude towards the deceased and their relatives. Obviously, the proponents want this painful wound of the nation never to be closed. However, in the Desus Group we advocate and we want the past to conclude that history does not defile itself, is as it is, and that energy and free will are geared towards solving the current problems of this society. We therefore agree that the amendment to the law is superfluous and is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u11	Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the amendment of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, is not suitable for further consideration. In doing so, we will stress once again, before ideological interference occurs, the Social Democrats, despite the fact that this novel does not have our support, do not oppose a decent burial, reconciliation and reconciliation. The novelists propose to remedy the shortcomings which they believe are evident in the ongoing excavation of the remains when the remains found do not constitute a fact on which the criminal procedure for determining the perpetrators and the causes of death would be initiated. Since the detection and prosecution authorities and the investigating judge are not present in the excavation or validation procedures, these proceedings shall not be carried out in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings. Applicants want to lay the groundwork for the certification of graves to be carried out in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings, so that all evidence is protected and criminal detection and prosecution authorities as well as the judiciary are required to participate in the proceedings. In our view, the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing well to address the issues of hidden graves. In the procedures for detecting hidden graves, the Commission shall pay particular attention to the respectful treatment of post-mortem remains and objects found in hidden war graves. Competent authorities shall be informed of this prior to the start of the work at a specific location of the hidden war grave. The execution of tasks at a hidden grave shall be carried out professionally, operators shall be professionally and technically qualified. Relevant experts shall be involved in the procedure. The work shall be carried out under the supervision of the Commission and the police. However, it is already clear from existing legislation that hidden graves as crime scenes are the subject of police investigation and follow-up procedures prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Act. Social Democrats agree with this and with everything else in the government's opinion, so we will follow their assessment that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u13	Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor on behalf of the United Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u14	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! There was no reason why last year the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries was adopted. Anything the law technically regulated could also be arranged in an old marriage. The purpose of the marriage was to provide for five funerals. The purpose of the right was and is only to open up a topic that has poisoned our political space for 20 years. Opening up the darkness and wounds for only one reason – historical revisionism and grading the national liberation fight. Sadly, he supported the Modern Center on this right. In the United Left we, of course, opposed the law at that time, just as we oppose any act that seeks to devalue the national liberation struggle and heroic acts of partisans and partisans. In this place, I will repeat a historical fact that is never too much to repeat. The national liberation struggle was a struggle for national, cultural and social liberation. A battle in which, together with the antifascist allies, we resisted and defeated the Nazi invader. The fight that has created the conditions for a new more just society that has given us what we most value as a society – a social state with public education and health care, the emancipation of women, and general social and economic development. He gave us all this socialism. Of course, there have been mistakes, but no one can change these simple historical truths. Which, of course, is a clear obstacle to the right. It was only a matter of time before the re-use of this law would take place in order to demonise the partisan movement and acquire cheap political points. We expect nothing more from the SDS in the next four hours than this. They will listen to the collaborators as patriots, while the partisan movement will criminalize, pummel and rob him or at least try to take away his undeniable historical role. The implementation of what the SDS is proposing today would mean everything else than a five-year burial and an appropriate closure of this historic chapter. To be honest, the right hand doesn't really want it. For what do they have left if we take away the ideology of apologizing for cooperation with fascism? They are left with only their anti-human, economic and social policies and attacks on women's rights. Politics that lower taxes to the rich while tightening their belts to the poor. Policies that destroy the social state with public health and education. The brutal neoliberal policies that we have actually seen in the time of both of them. This is the only truth of neoliberal politics advocated by the Slovenian right. The United Left will, of course, vote against the law that we are considering today. And in this place, we also promise to vote against all proposals that will attack the national liberation fight and its acquisitions in the future. We also promise that we will continue to fight to ensure that society of the future is built on the basis of national liberation, economic and social justice, the elimination of the subordination and emancipation of women and solidarity and society. Death to fascism!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u15	Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the views of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u16	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! We Christian Democrats are working to finally resolve the sad chapter of our past history in a dignified way to bury all the victims of interwar and post-war massacres. We are pleased to note that our law on the covered graves and burial of the victims has also helped to solve this problem and to realize that every human being has the right to a decent burial and grave. In 2015, in Europe and Slovenia, the 70th anniversary of the end of the world's largest sea and the victory of allied forces over man's evils were organized. Unfortunately, however, the Slovenian people in their own country still feel the tragedy of civil war with still unburied victims. In the Devil’s pit, which became synonymous with the increasing disunity of the nation because of this unresolved problem, the remains of victims of postwar beatings were unworthyly stored in plastic crates. We Christian Democrats have been and are still convinced that, in the spirit of basic civilisation standards, these human remains must be buried with dignity as soon as possible. In doing so, steps toward reconciliation will be easier and will follow their own course. Tragic postwar events will go back to history, and as a nation, we must make this history as it was. This can lead us to internal cleansing, which is healing for the people and individuals. Killings, interwars and postwars are the result of a communist revolution and not a national liberation fight. In Novi Slovenije we have therefore prepared a proposal for a law on covered war graves and burial of victims, which foresees all necessary steps for the concrete rescue and healing of this painful nation's wounds. This also reduces the possibility of further political manipulation of the dead. Let us re-emphasize some facts. We are talking about some 600 hidden graves that have been discovered by the government's commission to address the issues of hidden graves in all its efforts so far. Since they were only registered and not registered in the War Cemetery Register, they were not protected under the War Cemetery Act and were not cared for. In addition to these already discovered graves, we know that there are still many undiscovered sites where the remains are located, and we are obliged to discover them and bury them. The fact is that every year we lose living testimony to help us discover the hidden war graves. In addition, the current War Cemetery Act represented many technical and procedural obstacles to the effective work of the Commission. That is why we urgently needed a new law that provided the legal basis for the further detection of these graves, their entry into the register, the identification of the victims and their pathetic burial and the marking of the grave. However, we also needed political will to enable the law to be realized. The Commission has been given a different composition and more powers to address the issues of covered graves, which has already proved to be a great advantage this year. After more than two decades, in the second half of this year, the Commission exhumed a thousand people from the cemetery, of which 625 were exhumed from Barbara's trench. At 45 registered sites, victims were confirmed, 50 seas and graves were arranged, 66 burial grounds were fenced, crosses on which the basic data were placed. And what's important is they're taking DNA profiles from the remains for later personal identification of the victims. Experts from the National Forensic Laboratory of the Ministry of the Interior shall store DNA samples in accordance with the professional standards applicable to the processing of forensic DNA analysis for each exhumed body. DNA analysis will be carried out if human remains are likely to be identified in accordance with the professional criteria. The victims of the Huda Cave will be buried in the common burial ground by ensuring traceability and possible subsequent identification. All of these are the advantages of our law, which was not opposed by today's amendment at the time of its adoption a year and a half before its adoption. We have already stressed in New Slovenia that the implementation of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Funeral of Victims does not constitute an abolition of those responsible for the acts of execution, as responsibility for investigating these acts and responsibility remains with the authorities of investigation, prosecution and justice. The fact is that Articles 9 and 13 set out in detail the procedures for detecting and crossing the remains of the deceased. It is also true that the authorities involved in the detection and prosecution of criminal offences and the judiciary are involved in their detection. The police always come to the place where the remains have been found, as the Commission is obliged to inform the police, the State Prosecutor's Office and the Department of Cultural Heritage to resolve the issues of hidden graves about the existence of an alleged war cemetery. Any further proceedings by the police, the state prosecutor and the investigating judge shall be governed by the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. Since secret war graves are always crimes, the police and the investigating judge are always present and conduct procedures in accordance with their jurisdiction under the two laws mentioned above. In this context, evidence that actually allows the continuation of criminal proceedings and the determination of liability shall always be protected. In the event that an investigation of a criminal offence is carried out on grounds of objective circumstances, i.e. during a procedure conducted in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on Police Responsibilities and Powers, the perpetrator shall not be found for lack of evidence and for the years preceding, a crossing of the cemetery shall be carried out, as provided for in the law. Also in this process and in the case of probes, confirmation of the cemetery, the police are required to be present at the scene of the crime, which collects new information and findings at the time of the check and probe, and transmits them to the competent State Prosecutor's Office. Crimes against humanity are not outdated, neither by international law nor by domestic law, so it is the duty of the State to never abandon the persecution of the perpetrators. International humanitarian law, the Geneva Conventions and Council of Europe Resolution 1481 on the International Condemnation of the Crimes of Totalitarian Communist Regimes, and the European Parliament Resolution on European Consciousness, which has also led to the adoption of our Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, are binding on us. However, the conduct of prosecution and the conviction of the perpetrators are not subject to this law. As is not the subject of this law, the choice of the place of burial of the victims or the question of the storage of found items from these graves, which are written down and handed over to museums. The distinctions between individual laws which interfere with the work of all detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary are therefore clearly established and the exercise of their powers is mandatory. Since the existing law already adequately addresses all the issues raised by the novels under review, we will not support this amendment in Novi Slovenija. However, there is also serious doubt as to the credible well-intention of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u17	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. I give the floor to the representative of the candidates, Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I have listened closely to the views of the members of the groups, in particular to the position of the Government, which, among other things, stated that everything is going on in accordance with the principles of criminal procedure and that there is therefore no need to amend the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of the Victims, but I am respected by the representative of the Government who is sitting here today, and then wonder why the discretionary right of the Commission of the RS Government, which deals with the issues of hidden graves, is enshrined in Article 9, paragraph 3, to begin with the confirmation of the seas even if there is no investigating judge or law enforcement and detection. Here, I would like to ask for an exact answer before I continue to discuss as a proponent. Another time. If what the Government says is true, that is to say that everything is going in accordance with the criminal procedure, which, of course, contains or also constitutes an investigation into liability, I am interested in the extent to which criminal proceedings have been initiated against unknown or known perpetrators. This is where I'd like the exact information. For we need to know that it is a crime here, that it is a crime that is never obsolete, not under international or domestic law, and, of course, certain procedures can be followed posthumously. I want a precise reply from the Government representative, why the said discretion is enshrined in the third paragraph of Article 9. Which means the investigating judge can come to the city or not, and if he doesn't come, then the commission can do its job and actually do what it wants on the spot. Another time. How many procedures are being conducted against unknown or known perpetrators? I'd like those two answers first, and then I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u19	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Ms Anita Koleša and Mrs Iva Dimic should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government Representative, dear colleague and colleague! When we wrote the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of the Victims, we were aware, as is the case with every law, that the spirit of this law must somehow be intensified. And the spirit of this law is very precisely enshrined in Article 1, which states: "This law is in accordance with international humanitarian law, with the principles and rules on the treatment of the dead laid down by the Geneva Conventions, in accordance with Resolution 1481 on the International Conviction of the Crimes of Totalitarian Communist Regimes adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and with the Resolution of the European Parliament of 2 April 2009 on European Consciousness regulates matters" which are regulated. Here in Article 1 is the intonation. I have a question for government representatives, too. First of all, I regret, of course, that there is no business provision for all members of the government commission to have here in this debate, for example, but the Rules of Procedure are such that this is not the case today. I'm asking the government's representative, because it was an obvious thing, which actually scared me, and I know it's not true that human remains are put in plastic bags like building materials. I ask the Government to say what these are for one bag, whether these are European standards or something, or whether they are, God forbid, garbage bags. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be careful when we say anything about such a sensitive issue. In fact, I will quote an expert in this area, this is Dr Mitja Ferenc, who had a very interesting interview in the Reporter magazine, not now doing an advertisement, but I have to quote the source on December 5, 2016. Of course, the journalist also asked him questions that are always in the air. The question is: "Does the law allow the Commission a discretionary right to proceed in spite of the clear findings of the victims' remains?" Dr. Ferenc answers: “I know that several ten complaints against an unknown perpetrator have been written by the police at the time of the discovery of graves and seas. Historically, we know that he caused extrajudicial killings after the end of the war...« Who caused them? Ferenc says here. “... new Yugoslav and Slovenian communist authorities or its leaders. But you've been dead a long time. We know that the criminal procedure is being instituted against a still-lived offender. If anyone knows them and can connect them to the victims in a single cemetery, let the police know. We have the Penal Code, which also regulates acts of genocide and war crime. The fact that the new law protects the perpetrators of the crime, because there is no police and the prosecutor present in the excavations, is misleading and not true.” That's right, Dr. Ferenc. And continues: “The police have been informed about the place and time of the start of the excavations and are monitoring the work of the performers. Finally, we came up with a lot of information about the killings and graves in cooperation with the police. And all the items found next to the victims are, as it were, documented, but from the buttons found, the mains and other personal items of the victims we will not get the names of the perpetrators. They will enable us to explain the circumstances of death, the status, the nationality of the victims, their age and gender, and in some cases the name and surname of the victim." Allow me to present another answer to a question that Dr. Ferenc was asked in the Reporter magazine. The question is: “Have you expected so much criticism of your work?” Dr. Ferenc answers: “The criticism is already, we are not intrudable, but not such poisonous inducements, on the back of the victims and the shoulders of the family. I see them being manipulated, because someone is telling them that the gold of their relatives is being stolen, and someone else is trying to convince them that we're hiding the victims in Maribor. Does Maribor not belong to Slovenia? Is the burial site in Dobrava, which is part of the association of European important cemeteryes and has offered a burial site where the first monument after the war was laid is not a decent place?» I'm closing the quote. I call, colleagues and colleagues, all of us, especially in this adventurous, Christmas time, which is a special time, peace, love, patience, to actually take a well-meaning step towards the final goal – and this is made by Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u21	Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor. Prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u22	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! It is clear that, according to the motioners of the amendment of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, the activities following the adoption of this law are taking place too well, with the approval of both the professional public and the Slovenian society in general, so that the Slovenian Democratic Party should allow this to happen. We are slowly moving on to a time when we have come to realize in society that some of us can write deeply traumatic stories, and we can tell them, and we can end them without fear that the storytellers and listeners will fight to death. And this is, of course, a very painful knowledge for the proposer, because without them, the story that kept them on the level of the ideological struggle between good and evil ended, and they were left without a bullet that shot at the already wounded Slovenian soul. During this year's visit to the victims of the massacres in the Hudi Cave, participants in this event – by the way, we attended only two Members, a colleague of Janja Slug and I – Professor Dežman made it possible to view the cave and presented the way members of the team work, who, in a sense, work unrelentingly in their workplace, a sad part of the site, but professionally, in accordance with the instructions of the members of the commission and, of course, also with the law that requires their work to lead to a decent burial of the victims of this war cemetery. It is clear to everyone that the identification of these remains is extremely difficult and difficult work, but the Ministry of the Interior has issued a requirement for compulsory storage of the sample for identification maintained by the forensic laboratory. Only in this way is there any possibility that someday in the future they might discover the victims' relatives and indirectly find out who ended up in the scary shafts of the Hud Cave mine. From all the transmitted data received from the Government, both competent ministries, from the President of the Government, from the Commission, it is quite clear that the law is fully appropriate and that there are no procedural problems in its implementation and that no serious expert dealing with this area has made any request for a change in the direction indicated by the amendment of the law. In today's debate, there have already been arguments against the novel, which prove that this law is also appropriate in the sense that it does not overlook the involvement of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office and that, under certain conditions, the provisions of other laws, such as the Criminal Procedure Act and the evidentiary procedures, which I have personally ascertained, must also be respected. Therefore, it is kind of disrespectful that I do not say rudely to all those hardworking people I saw at the workplace at the entrance to the Hudo Cave, to members of the government commission who are looking to dig up the remains of the victims in the cave, to Mrs anthropologist who is carefully meeting the requirements for collecting samples for identification, and, of course, to all those who participate in this sacrificial work of dealing with the remains. Personally, I think that this is rude and unacceptable, although it is not in this kind of debate that we measure the success of the implementation of the adopted law last year, but I must be pleased to conclude that this is one of those laws that fully justified the efforts made at the time of adoption. I am kind of glad that we have been working together with colleagues and colleagues of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u23	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mrs Janja Slug and Mr Andrej Chuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Again and again, on such proposals, I am overwhelmed by feelings because such corrections and comments and I do not know what affects emotions, not just me, but probably all the people who have emotionally suffered the loss of relatives at the end of World War II as a result of the revolution. I can't help but share with you the personal experience of the past days, when I'm with some who may still know where we still have unsold graves in Notranj, that we have a lot of work to do next year, and here I am pleased. Last but not least satisfied after 25 years that the government has committed a million euros in the coming year, that we will also come and clean up our early history, that, however, the Notranians will also have the opportunity to find our own, that we will have the opportunity to say good-bye in particular to them and that this country will give them a decent burial or recognition of what needs to be recognised to every man – his own life in the past. But to us also that we love our ancestors and that we are proud of them, because they too were in some way patriotic. Big patriots. That is why I am pleased with the interview by Dr Mitje Ferenc, quoted by my colleague, Jožef Horvat, and, of course, that they also understand at the Ministry of the Economy that it is necessary, as Mr Ferenc said, to quote: “... to make up for the civilisation debt for the cemetery fund we know would take about five or six years of such working pace.” I really want such a pace to continue for another five or six years so that we do not come with such and similar novels that would eventually stop the excavations and bury the victims, identifying the victims, because if we have the funds provided, according to Dr Ferenc, this work will continue smoothly. I am confident that as we continue to work, we will also give a new look at past history, and that we also need to understand New Slovenia, that this law has also been made out of some of our own initiatives and a desire on the basis of 25 years, because there has been virtually no talk of any greater excavation, of what greater human action for all victims and, of course, of our own. Much has been said in these days or in the last year, of course, unfortunately, about the law that was passed, even though experts say that the law is good, that it is fast and that it allows a thousand 46 people to be buried this year. This has never happened in recent years. The real law has a solid basis for action to be carried out, however, to move some such heavy stone in our history. I come alone from Notranjska. There were also many round tables in autumn times by various social and civil organisations. I find or find out how many different shores we are all on, including those who have relatives in such undiscovered and unexplored graves or killing sites as the word is closer to someone. And how easily people cannot bear that such a law was created and adopted and that it is implemented in Novi Slovenije. I'm really sad. And all they're looking for is where and how things could stop. I am sad not to find that there is something good and let us take advantage of the time that we are given to resolve matters as soon as possible, find victims, of course find their own. And to take a step forward, a step that we always talk about is necessary, of course also to save and reveal history. At these round tables, which took place in Notranjska, we know that we had a round table in the event of the victims being dug from the Crimea Cave and even in Rotta, I can say that all the words that were spoken, how unfortunate the law and what should have been done, however, have led us to bury the victims from the Huda Cave, to bury the victims from the Crimea Cave, that we will probably also bury the victims lying in Loškem, Cerknica, Rakov Škocjan and others in Slovenia. That is why we have a million euro guaranteed in the coming year. To say that humans or remains are in construction bags seems to me to be an extremely inappropriate expression to bury them in some plastic construction bags. The Commission's representatives also say, among other things, that Mr Sušnik stated on the round table in Rottah that these bags are special, that on these bags are collected from each individual the remains, that all the bags are equipped with an identification number, that at the possible finding of the relatives who would have volunteered, this could be submitted to the funeral at the earliest possible time, to the burial of the personal graves, if that is what the family wants. Why so valuable to a person even when they find him? That remains an eternal question. Maybe someone wants to show us that we're taking them as remains. No, no, no, no, no! They're our ancestors, we have their DNA in our genes. And I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgle, representative of the applicants, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that again. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As I explained earlier in the proposaler's position, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to introduce a new Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims into a legal basis that will be in line with both the Geneva Conventions and the principles of the rule of law and civilisation standards. Let me explain that this amendment represents only an additional safeguard so that in any case investigations are actually initiated. I mentioned earlier that, because of the discretion afforded by the Commission for the issues of hidden graves, these procedures cannot be initiated in any case, although they should be based on the principles of criminal procedure. We are therefore amending Article 9 of the Law, which, at least as regards the validation of the seas, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party, today too fluently written. It does not follow, as said, the principles of criminal procedure, which are necessary, since in the case of the confirmation of the crime scene or the crime scene. And here again, as a member of the National Assembly, I am warning both the public and fellow Members of Parliament, and above all the Government that when they use the concept of the sea, the cemetery, they will make a clear distinction in order to make clear what the sea is and what the cemetery is. So the sea is the scene or crime scene where the victims of the postwar sea were killed, killed to death, or thrown to that place. That is why when we come to new discoveries of such seas – now there are about 600 mass hidden seas in Slovenia, but there are even more hidden eyes – then we need to talk about this as seaports and not graves, because the cemetery is, respected colleagues and colleagues, a place where they live eternal peace and peace and where I die then the eternal light to rest in peace. This is the cemetery. Therefore, I also argue that the title of the law itself is not the most appropriate and appropriate. In particular, in the last excavations in the case of the Košnica murder site, it also turned out that I went to Košnica myself, where I saw how these excavations were going, how exhumation procedures were going, who was there, who was there, what was doing with the objects found. And the fact is that there were no detection and prosecution authorities there and an investigative judge, even though it was a crime scene to which the principles of criminal proceedings should be approached. I will point out once again, because we obviously do not understand each other well, because after the current law, the Commission has a discretionary right to initiate the process of certifying the seas and then exhumation even if there is no investigating judge and prosecutor present on the site. Even if they are not genuine on the spot, the commission of the investigating judge and the state prosecutor can only inform. Thus, gentlemen sit in offices and learn that a new seaport has been discovered, and do not raise their last salary to look at it on the face of the city, but simply say from the office: “Well, we have discovered a new sea, that’s it.” This is unacceptable, so we want a clear diction to be recorded in this law. A clear lesson that will do everything in order to establish such a legal basis that crimes against humanity will no longer be excluded from the criminal law system and hence from the criminal liability system. With amendments to the law, more specifically Article 9 of the Law, we want to establish a legal basis which will treat the murdered victims exactly as the rest of the murdered. This means that when a body's killing site is discovered, it is clear that the police must get there first, it's the detection authorities, and then the law enforcement authorities must do their job. But because of the discretion vested in this law in Article 9, in paragraph 3, this does not always happen. And the commission can also do its work past the investigating judge, which is contrary to the principles of the rule of law. And this is what we are talking about, this is a purely basic civilisation standard, which includes the issue of the rule of law and, of course, the actual establishment of the rule of law in this area. Here let me draw attention to the fact that, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are clearly aware that the criminal proceedings that must be initiated must not at the same time impede the procedures of a decent burial. The victims have been waiting for this step for over 71 years and, of course, certain steps have been taken in this direction, we cannot deny it. I have also worked with the Commission on these issues on my own several occasions, and of course they have done a lot of good, but I claim that in this law, when we went into changes, we have not done our homework to the end, and in particular not a domestic task that would be in line with, even if you want, international legal acts, Geneva conventions and not least in accordance with the domestic criminal order. We are aware that, through the criminal proceedings initiated, decent burial procedures must not be prevented, but at least the evidence which enables the continuation of criminal proceedings and the determination of liability must be protected. And not once in one case would we have secured them, but in one case they wouldn't. No, no, no. In any event, this evidence must be protected. I don't think anyone can object to that. And I don't understand how all the parliamentary groups today can say in their views that they don't support this law. It is only an upgrade; it is a change that represents only an additional fuse, in fact, that in any case investigative procedures are initiated. Dear Members and Members, we have not voted in favour of the law for several reasons since the adoption of the law, which was adopted and prepared in Novi Slovenije, and then confirmed by the Modern Centre Party. Nor did we oppose it because we believe that some important steps are still being taken, but we have already warned throughout this legislative process that in practice exhumation procedures will show shortcomings in the law, which do not always lead to a just resolution of this important civil issue. Here let me be a little political and say, in the Slovenian Democratic Party everything that this party has been there – I am not in it from the beginning – but I am monitoring its work, this party points to the urgency of looking into this tragic part of our common past. Before this tragic work, we must not close our eyes, even if it is so painful. The European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism in one of its points also makes it clear that it is necessary to address this common tragic European past, that we must open up archives, that we can get the data that has been silenced so far, that we can draw up history as it really was, to look at all the arguments and all the materials and then draw up a whole story. Of course, we will all agree here today that the rescue of this long and hidden past takes too long, and above all, that it must take place fairly, that it must take place honestly and primarily with great responsibility both to the victims and to their relatives. However, I think that some in all of this have in particular lost a sense of sincere recognition and a sense of genuine regret. Here, let me put it this way. What helps us with all the big words of painting in front of the photographic lens at the funeral of the victims of the post-war sea, if, as a country, as a policy, we are not able, together, to condemn the totalitarian system that caused this inconceivable horror. And, dear colleagues, we are doing absolutely nothing good with this for our common future, when we leave things somewhere half-done, only to see that something is being done in this area, and in fact, it is not sincere of some political officials. I am not talking about the Commission for the resolution of hidden graves. This has done a remarkable job, especially when it has recorded more than 600 hidden seas, that today, I hope, at least, every Slovenian knows that we are practically walking on the bones of our own, through the bones of our own people throughout the country. It will be honest when, as the National Assembly, we are all Members of this call, but I fear that this will not be possible, even though some, even though they are leaders of the parliamentary groups, are happily chatting in this national assembly when we talk about such important issues of the national essence, but that is the case. Some people just don't feel that way, and I've said that a lot of times, and I'm going to say it, so I'm also saying that these things, they're not being honest about it. They're not honest. Because only when we know how to listen to each other will we be able to begin the reconciliation process. Until then, unfortunately, we will remain on some trenches that do not lead to a better common future. It will be honest when we know all the members of this National Assembly, but I am afraid that no, there will probably be another call for a national assembly, another term in the other composition, when we all know that we are condemning all three totalitarian systems that have profoundly marked the Slovenian nation. It will also sincerely be when the heirs, the political heirs of this crime, hope to demand out the condemnation of those who have committed the crime. Only then will genuine reconciliation and genuine forgiveness be possible. Until then, it is a policy of defiance, a policy of manipulation and a policy of manipulation, with respect to fellow Members and colleagues. Now allow me to show a diagram of crucial importance in this field of world reconciliation theorists argue that all elements of transitional justice must be fulfilled for the final reconciliation of the nation. I believe that many of you have never heard of this, especially those who are the political heirs of this system, who have so gravely intervened in human rights and taken lives. That's what I believe, some now, so they're leaving the hall because it's hard to listen to, but I can say [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I would ask you, Mr President, to calm the Member of Parliament, that yes, thank you very much. [[…]] In this area of transitional justice, we are most concerned with Mr Boštjan Kolarič of the Centre for National Reconciliation; otherwise, a diagram of these elements of transitional justice has been drawn up at the Swiss foreign ministry and is in fact necessary to bring a nation to the beginning or to bring one another together or to the fact that the debate actually takes place. These four major elements of transitional justice, which we must fulfil as a country, are first of all the right to know, this means that before I have principles of this topic, that it is necessary to consistently determine the historical truth, not as some have written, I will say to court historians, but also to look at other documents, actually open archives, not just in half, with some anonymisation, that means that we are not actually closing them but opening them, but that we really need to ensure access to archival materials in full, as they did in the Czech Republic, for example. But we, respectable colleagues, in this area do not have things arranged as the rest of the democratic civilised state, and still cling to the sand when it is necessary to make an incision in connection with a break in the past that has gravely violated human rights and interfered with the integrity and dignity of individuals. The right to know, therefore, one of the major elements of this transitional justice, also says that everything must be done to ensure that the investigating authorities participate in these proceedings, that the truth commissions participate and that independent historical research is, of course, present. Another major element of transitional justice is the right to remedy injustices. I will remind you that I have been dealing with this topic for a very long time, and when I looked back at some documentation when I reviewed what she was doing – and also did an extraordinary job in this area – the Colonel's Commission, which in the early 1990s dealt with the issue of post-war beatings, was already warned in the conclusions that rehabilitation of victims was needed. What does the rehabilitation of victims mean? This does more than just bury them with dignity. This also means restoring their good name, for most of these civilians were killed on the basis of an ideological criterion and without any judicial proceedings. Therefore, they need to be given back a good name. That means rehabilitation of the victims. And that also means a material cost settlement. Even today, we were not able to arrange this as a country for the relatives. The layout of the markings is crucial. We must be aware that only when we can honestly write down what happened in this interwar, and especially in the postwar time, when other rules arise as in wartime – because in times of peace different rules apply than in wartime – and only then will we say that we have taken an important step, an additional step forward. Then the right to legality. What does that mean? This right to legality, respected representatives of the Government, is in fact the most relevant one to what we wish to amendment today in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It means carrying out a criminal investigation, prosecuting and punishing the perpetrators if they do not go through domestic courts or tribunals. It is therefore that element of transitional justice, for which we lay the legal basis, precisely with the amendment of this law. Therefore, I do not understand that the parties to the coalition and also the opposition to this proposal do not wish to support it. I just can't understand it. It is only a further change, which gives an additional security guard, that in fact, whenever a crime scene is detected, the investigation authorities and law enforcement authorities will actually begin to carry out procedures at that time. And then the last element. This is an element of the non-repetition assurance. This, however, represents the implementation of institutional reforms towards democracy and lustration. I have also called on the Commission for petitions for human rights and equal opportunities from a period of time ago, where experts from various fields have spoken to us about how far in Slovenia we have, in fact, been able to fulfil these elements of transitional justice or to achieve reconciliation. I have also repeatedly warned that without a clear past, we cannot breathe the future with full lungs. And of course, a nation that does not know history or recognize history in its entirety, even though it is painful, is doomed to repeat it. Look, in Parliament now we have some sort of meter measuring how many words someone says. It's an interesting matter that I personally don't give anything, but this measure of how many words someone says in the National Assembly. For example, Comrade Battelli is not best known for having really long speeches, but he is known to have very wise speeches and that every sentence he utters stands. But we also have people who talk a lot, and they don't say anything. Why am I saying this now? Because there are also some words in this meter that mark each member of the National Assembly. Although I think it's all out of the question, especially because it serves the manipulations in particular, despite making fun of some of the words they've given me, I'm proud that they mark me. These are the words of the sea, the cemetery, the archival and so on. Why? Because this means that I have been genuinely dealing with this problem since the beginning, which we should have solved a long time ago. On the other hand, we have policies that, some year before the elections, say, in a series of lightbulbs do pear at the expense of the victims; of course, they cannot have such a statement between words. However, these politicians are presented as working for our future. Those who for many years have been reminded that we are making proposals, we are working together with the victims and others, and we are referred to as those who look back, who are dealing only with the past, which is just bone-throwing, so they say, just because they are coming or are coming from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Look, a while ago there was also a debate in the National Assembly, which personally touched me, because I believe that the decisions made by the State do not take into account the wishes of the victims' relatives, especially when talking about the place of their last rest. Here I must say that it is perverse that today the heirs or political heirs of the communist regime, who in fact committed a crime against humanity that never grows old, determine where their victims will be buried, the wishes of the relatives do not touch them. Further on, since I will have some more time, I will also say more about these desires of my family, about what is going on in Tehary, and what is urgently needed to be pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Of course, I agree that today's topic is important, but I also agree that these things are very difficult to listen to; probably this is why only four Members are sitting here in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. I will begin with a quote by Mr Dežman: “After the adoption of the law, the story began to develop intensively. The Ministry of Economy and Technology is particularly responsible for this. The reason for the establishment of a normal situation in the field of the regulation of hidden war graves is seen in last year's adoption of the Law on Hidden Cemeteries and the burial of victims, which builds on the Commission's 2010 programming principles." The law was adopted in 2015 and its purpose was to very clearly define the procedure in order to ensure greater efficiency in the implementation of all procedures. And the existing law in the second paragraph of Article 9 states: “If the existence of an alleged war grave is determined by facts allowing exhumation under the law governing criminal proceedings, the conduct and direction of police investigations shall be taken over by the State Prosecutor or the investigating judge.” The Commission of the Government has also laid down its work programme very precisely to address the issues of hidden war graves. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology allocated half a million funds to the Commission in 2016, in 2017 450 thousand. The most funds are allocated by the Commission to the crossing of victims and to the organisation of graves and entry into the register. Of course, this is first of all for those graves where Slovenian victims lie, where it is found that the victims are foreigners, then further procedures are the subject of interstate contracts. And if we look at what the commission entered in its programme for 2016: the arrangement of 60 hidden war graves to the stage, which will allow the preparation of a proposal for the registration of a cemetery in the register of war graves at the Ministry of Labour and consequently in the register of immovable cultural heritage at the Ministry of Culture; the excavation and burial of victims from 18 hidden war graves; the confirmation or probe at 45 hidden war graves; the nuclear drilling or probe of the mine pit of Pečovnik; the examination and sanitary amount of remains from 16 karst caves and abysses. And there is always a part on a specific location that is notified to the competent authorities before the start, and that is also the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, and all the time thereafter procedures and work are carried out under the supervision of the Commission of the Government for the Rescue of Hidden War Cemeteries and Police. As my colleague Anita mentioned earlier, we are probably still under the strong impression that a man gets when he visits the Hudo Cave. We had a very detailed view of how the work at the Ugly Jam was going. There are experts present throughout the process, archaeologist, anthropologist, forensician, including miners, who will ensure that access and security is made possible in the very grave pits, because the matter is very complicated after the victims have somehow been discovered in these mine shafts. The access itself is very difficult, it is necessary to provide adequate access, it is necessary to ensure ventilation of the shaft, it is necessary to ensure drainage and so on. My colleague and I can make sure that the entire team works professionally, professionally and pietically. And as I said, everyone there is taking this work very seriously, there is no doubt that things are going on with dignity, that things are going with respect. If I may just say so, our visit to the Hudi Cave was merely a done deal, but we have noticed that the police also visited and regularly visited the site in the same morning, so that these matters are certainly going on, in our opinion, as they must. If I go back to law school. As I have said, Article 9 already refers and already includes the Criminal Procedure Act, also in Article 13 and both of these articles, it is clear that hidden graves as a place of criminal service are the subject of a police investigation and follow-up procedures prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Act. If the offence is not investigated for objective circumstances by carrying out activities in accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure or the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, the execution of the crossing of the cemetery is possible under this law. Also in the case of crossings and probes, because of the crime scene, there is a police presence who at the same time selects new information to be disclosed in the cross and at the end of any new findings concerning a specific grave, informs the competent state prosecutor. As I mentioned earlier, Mr Dežman, who is the head of this committee, in several discussions, pointed out in several interviews how the matter had moved, how it was actually going better than it had been, faster than it had been, and with more resources, and all of this, of course, attributed to the existing law, so the law in which today's motioner did not want to participate did not want to participate, I stress, they did not even want to define themselves, they did not propose amendments and they abstained. Therefore, as colleague Novak said, it is a matter of serious doubt as to the intentions of today's proposal to amend the bill. Neither did they propose any changes in the 2004-2008 mandate, so let me use my colleague Irgl's quote: "I can't understand why then, but today totally different." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of my debate, let me say that I am fully aware of the injustices that have taken place in our past, that I am also aware of the Constitutional Court's judgments, how it feels about the former country, and that I am also aware that the victims deserve a decent burial and that the murderers are responsible. But let's look on the other side. We're 25 years old. We had right-wing governments, and the left-wing government also led the Government, and nothing was going on in this area. Why not? Because I feel that political elites in this country are actually in the interest of constantly warming up the history of who was red, who was white. Not only do citizens and citizens fight at every turn, but they also poison young generations, and this is unacceptable. When we talk about reconciliation, I think that reconciliation will come between the older generation only with honesty and not with provocations. Today we have 300,000 people living on the threshold of poverty in Slovenia. Young people are moving out of Slovenia. People work and they're poor. Pensioners can't live properly with pensions, and today we're talking again about who won World War II. I have listened very carefully to the presentations of the positions of the members of the groups and I must say that some of the discussions went beyond the frameworks and discussions, who was red, white and who was black, and that we are still talking about this in 2016, and on the other hand we have so many other problems and I find it unacceptable. I am also a member of the National Assembly for the fourth year, many times we listen to some warming of history and always end up with the same things. We're all going home, and the people who watch this are even more upset than we are. So I decided, given that he also has enough of this, for one proposal that we might finally end up in the National Assembly by warming up history and dividing red, white, as was 1941 to 1945, so I brought two beers, two six packs of beer and all the interested ones just invite them to take it, they close up in some meeting room and they finally agree on who won World War II because I believe that citizens have enough of this, and so do I. I say that history needs to be known, but there will be no new services, no better pensions, no health care and no better welfare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u32	I have only a few seconds at my disposal, so I'm just going to say thank you to the members of the committee for doing this work, and I'm sorry they have to endure all these obviouss. I believe in their well-intentionedness, honesty and credibility. That is why I thank them for all of this, and I am glad that we do meet this civilisational standard and bury our dead.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself have looked at the views of the members of the groups on this subject. Of course, man is always the most surprised about such topics, the sadness is no longer here, some even laugh back there when things are still getting to the level of ideology. We're talking about some civilizational standards, that it's not enough to take care of the money, to take care of that funeral, but also to find out who's responsible for the crimes. Previously, it was said by a fellow Servant that, given that the Slovenian Democratic Party did not support the proposed law in the summer, it was actually doubtful about our purposes. I'm sorry, but you, in this national assembly or your coalition, have not been able to support the European Parliament's resolutions on totalitarianism, which is why it is difficult for you to lecture me about the purposes. It's very difficult for you to lecture me about your intentions. Many other conventions have already been adopted and it is well known what should happen in such acts or at such a finding. Our proposal is completely, I think, in a way logical – if there is a cemetery, a seafront, automatic investigators come, a judge comes in and that matters are also investigated from this point of view, that is, after all, very important. And it's extremely irresponsible and rejected that in Desus' position, I've heard that we want to make history. History is misplaced, respected, if we don't let her tell the facts about who's responsible for the crimes. No, it doesn't matter who's responsible for the crime, because that's the saddest thing. It's not about pretending, it's just that if there's a cemetery somewhere, the investigators come in, the law enforcement authorities come in, and things come to an end. Today this is not the case, today it is not a criminal code and it is a matter of some discretionary rights. Then we change the penal code, and when we find the bodies, respectable, we'll have a commission in the country, and then they'll decide whether or not we're going through some procedure. They're also our citizens, and they're people, and they're kids. And if all these laws were to be valid and of such quality, it would be difficult to say that today there would be no case before a court and concluded, but there will not be, nor will there be. You know, a lot of these relatives have already buried these people in their hearts. However, we would expect a country that declares itself democratic, that the state will also do everything to find the culprits for these crimes. That even for once they will be treated as equal before the law. Now we are performing first-rate and second-rate burials in this country. For some, it doesn't matter what happened and what happened, of course, what matters to others. But that's not how it works. For anyone found, it is necessary to ensure that things are investigated and that the perpetrators of crimes are also found. The fact is, and this is, I think, colleague Irgle has repeatedly pointed out in this debate that when a cemetery is found, it does not always go in accordance with the principles of criminal procedure. And now talk about that some commission is doing well, that there are archaeologists, that there are many who are doing hard work, painful work, that's all true. And that's not what they're dealing with, which is what we have as the legislative branch of power. We have to take care of what's missing. And by the time this law was adopted, we had warned that things would not be resolved as they should be, so we did not want to participate. And not now to cast a shadow of doubt on the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has been fighting since the beginning to bring about excavations, and that it would also occur that these people are, of course, buried in a civilised way and, of course, to find those responsible for it. Well, those double standards of yours are moving on. Look what you're doing with the archives in Serbia. I know you don't want them, but you know, you're giving them up too clearly. Apparently, the fear of what's going to happen in there is too great. But you will find it difficult to say that this is impossible or impossible, because here we will be able to learn much from the neighbours of the Croats. I hope you at least read the Constitutional Charter and know what you're doing by not having these archives in Slovenia. And the statements of treason are in place, you know. It clearly states what needs to be done and what the state needs to do to gain its cultural and historical heritage. In the country for cultural heritage, it will not be enough for Mr Klemenčič's son-in-law to receive grants to rebuild the castle. Cultural heritage is also an archive. And it's very important. For they speak of a great deal of Slovenian history. And here we expect and we will demand and we will be loud enough that these archives will return to Slovenia. Of course, you can just say that the Slovenian Democratic Party is constantly warming up history. History should not be wrong in any way if we put matters in their places and name them by their real names. Crime is a crime. And crime needs to be investigated and found criminals. But you know, some things happen again in this country. We can't find anyone responsible for these acts after the war, and we already know how many civilians have been killed. The same is true of banks, it is said, constantly when it comes to protecting their own elites. Before that, it is impossible to escape and it is likely that no step will be taken in this country until we are able to adopt a resolution on totalitarianism in the National Assembly. And look at these double criteria that really turn a man's stomach. We're hearing about how the Huda Cave was viewed, how people do it there, how it moves you and how it hurts. It's really painful. I was in the Devil's Cave a few years ago when all these people were still in the gutters and in the holes. But on the other hand, you know, we have a decision by the Constitutional Court that clearly says what a red star is and what a totalitarian regime is, and in this National Assembly we can see Members who speak confidently with this red star about this speaker. And we have a decision of the Constitutional Court. Not even in this temple of democracy are we able to arrange what they say to be old people who belong to the National Assembly, and there are things that don't belong. Even at many events, even national celebrations can wave with a Yugoslav red star. The red star of the last army to know what she was doing in this room. And nothing happens. He even protects these people. Therefore, it will be difficult to attribute ideological themes to the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Slovenian Democratic Party does not wave with the red stars, but wants the most civilisational standards to be regulated, which would be appropriate for us to have a constitution based on democratic principles. We can say that we live in a state of law, but the rule of law doesn't work here. The fact is, if there is any place to go, it is essential that all those responsible for the prosecution in the country come and do their job. This can't be a discretionary right. We cannot say that this is too difficult or that the procedures are too long. No human life, death, or murder can be the reason why a procedure is too long. This is our duty. And when you say, "We have given the means, we have adopted a hybrid law," this law does not save everything and not the fundamental one. You know what many relatives thought about this when this marriage was adopted. Don't throw sand in your eyes. We will start once in the National Assembly as it should, in a row, by adopting conventions adopted by other parliaments, these things have already been well settled and are not coming back to these issues. But you know, it's interesting, even their state in the country is improving because these things are very related to the elites that are going on and on in this country and are protected. And they're protected. Of course, I support the law, I can't agree that young colleagues, even though I know they like to be original, that this is how they join the National Assembly when they speak, let's close ourselves in one room with alcohol. There was a lot of this alcohol in the past, even when these things happened. Even to make something forget what was going on. This cannot be forgotten and the burden is borne by both the perpetrators and the victims. This burden, my respects, cannot be borne as easily as anyone may think. And the fact that archives are not open, that work is disabled, that we give up archives from the former country, that someone is breaking blocks on the table now because someone else is discussing it, shows how firmly it is rooted in this society. We are not capable of some normal dialogue without ridicule, without those difficulties, just so that things can actually close up as they should. Then let's not expect these things to be saved by the school system, because they won't, because that's allowed. Why did I mention the school system? Because on Facebook we also have pictures of teachers taking pictures with a red star because the vows of Titus are taking place in Velenje, and we have a decision of the Constitutional Court, we have it all. But this will not change unless we begin, as I have pointed out, and I will say a thousand more times, in the resolution, and then also support such changes and not look for the basis in ideologies. This isn't about ideology, this is just about what's right and what's wrong. This is just about whether we're all going to be buried in this country as we should be if there's a crime. It doesn't matter if someone takes your life wrongly, there's no difference, respectable. And as long as this difference exists, we have not taken the right step in the right direction. You can bury someone, you can let your family light a candle, but look, we still don't know who's responsible. These people are still feeling very distant and on the threshold, and we are still hearing about some village guards. Please, what do the village guards have with the children of Petrička or with the children killed in Ormož? Nothing. I want to know who's responsible for this. As a mother, as a teacher and a citizen, I am interested in who is responsible for such crimes that this nation has never experienced in the past, but they are in post-war times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. As it has been heard so far, it is a winter theme that will be used indefinitely for political purposes. Why am I saying this? It will never be good enough, not this law, not gestures, not purpose, never will be good, until people clear themselves. Warming up this history, poisoning young generations, what Andrei said, which I very much agree with, shows no perspective. To talk here about civil standards, about honesty, about regret, it's all about a game and the context of some pathetic, hypocrisy and duality, some politics and denial and manipulation. Some are heirs of one system, others are heirs of another system and values, all of which is mixed and all of this is poisoned by the nation. If we are realistic, I think that this government, even at the initiative of NSI, has taken the right approach, has taken a step forward. Step forward in terms of supporting this law and doing what has not been done in 25 years. This use of this subject, the painful darkness, keeps bringing us back into the past, instead of giving us this opportunity for this future. I think this law has taken a step further. It is up to us politicians to be responsible that we are adults and leave you behind with a painful past. This law certainly makes this possible. We're not looking for unrest, we're not looking for some mistakes, some negatives in this marriage, but we're moving on. Let us leave this to the true historians and experts to do their job, as well as to the Commission on Cemetery and stop looking for weaknesses. I also appeal to all stakeholders, including the church, to end this national tragedy in the spirit of Bishop Schuster. That the correct extensions made at this time also give us the answers by New Slovenia. However, the task of the State and the authorities is to do their work, such as the laws given to them, must also be done. We always like to put salt on an open wound and prove over and over again that we are a nation that enjoys these pains and we do not want to or we do not want to look forward to. I always wonder if we'll ever get past this and move on. On the other hand, whether it is Christian once and for all to forgive and give some peace to those generations who have suffered and survived and who are slowly withered. I think we have taken very many steps in this direction to calm this pain of our nation and that we are all turning against the future. Looking for the very weaknesses and looking for what each of us must have had a experience that was certainly very strong for that time, I think there is no place left. After 25 years, we must also take this new auction step forward and focus on the future. We have a lot of problems, I agree. Step by step. I'm also in this direction, because I say, I'm impatient because I want this to go much faster than it is. Last but not least, I think that this law that the NS and these governments have given to NS and this government, and we supported it in the SMC, is good. This matter, however, now that the SDS colleagues have reinstated some new variants, does not make sense because it breaks again and does not work in that constructive positive direction that we should go to.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go, Mrs. Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferruga is looking for weaknesses in marriage. Why do laws change? Then let us adopt one marriage, let us dissolve the National Assembly, for the law is the same as it is, and we do not eliminate weaknesses, nor are new ones accepted. It's stupid that she's not a couple, that's what you said. At that time, we emphasized the weakness of this law. Who poisons society? We just want there to be a law enforcement officer and a judge in the dig. That's all. What kind of poisoning are we talking about? It's simple. We just want things to be done as stated in the Penal Code. Let's respect the law for everyone in this country. That's the only problem we're underlining. We can't say, we can't look for weakness, we can't look for it. It's the great weakness of this marriage. [[…]] There's nothing else here that needs to be put on the table right now. Are we going to fix this, or are we going to be able to fix it? I'm saying we should. And you say that's enough. It's not enough! Because this is how we have different forms when we find someone who has been found in one way or another and died violent deaths. That's the difference. And we make a difference in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you very much for once again, Mr Vice-President. I had already said, on behalf of the proposaler, that something would have to be said about how the country does not take into account the wishes of its own, even though their wishes should be the first to lead them, especially because they are such important issues, indeed at the most subtle human level. That's why these people need to be listened to. I would like to recall that before the time before, the Slovenian bishops in a joint declaration, where they have written certain conclusions which they unanimously adopted, have clearly defined to solve the extrajudicially murdered victims of interwar and post-war violence. And then in this statement, you will probably remember, among other things, that it was said that the victims or not only that such a decision had been made — that the victims found in the grave pit should be buried in the Teharje Memorial Park, because the relatives of their loved ones who were brought there are often remembered in this very place and there are prayers. But the decision fell differently at the top of the country. A joint statement was made by the President of the State of Borut Pahor and Archbishop Stanislav Zoret, who explained that the victims would be buried in the memory park of Dobrava near Maribor due to a number of technical and spatial obstacles. See, at the time we supported in the public statement all conclusions or all that the archbishop and the president of the country agreed in this statement, but we did not support the proposal to transfer the remains of the victims from the Hude Cave to the Dobrava memorial park near Maribor. And we still believe today that the best decision and the right decision would be to bury it in the Teharje Memorial Park. This is what the relatives want, and this is how the Slovenian bishops committed themselves in their statement. And personally, I don't think you can get past the deep commitment given unanimously by the bishops of Slovenia, and above all, that technical obstacles cannot be the reason that the remains of the dead are not buried in this place. Allow me to say here that I have been dealing with these issues for quite some time and wondering what those technical obstacles are, which is why these victims cannot be buried in Tehran. Let me say that no one has yet been able to explain it precisely enough. Most of the talk is that there should be a dump in this area so that the victims cannot be buried there. I have spoken with the lady who is monitoring activities in this area, and in particular the voice of the victims of the victims in this area. The lady asked the Mayor of Celje, Mr Bojan Šrot, who is an environmental obstacle or technical obstacle, which would in fact prevent them from being able to bury these people with dignity in this place. And the answer was as follows: "For years ago, the City Municipality of Celje proposed to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same possibilities for an office in the area of Teharje Memorial Park. There is no landfill in the park area and it does not need to be repaired. No one has ever mentioned to us that there are environmental problems or reservations, but they are technical, but they are simply lifesaving. It is only about changing the OPPN and building a tomb or tomb.« In short, these technical obstacles are not supposed to be, so I don't understand here why the wishes of the victims were not followed. However, when we are talking about this subject, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is a broader context, it is always necessary to look at this topic in a broader context. Slovenia is, as it is said, deceived by mass killings, more than 600 have been recorded. I do not repeat this at this point again, because, for example, Members of the National Assembly would not know this, but that this information may also be captured by young generations of people, who are rightly aware of the events that have taken place in our not-so-distant past, in addition to finding a quality life which the government must create for it. Of course, we still have some unexplored areas, but people know that some individuals know where these places are where the bodies of the victims were buried. And it's right that they do. Years ago, now a long time ago, I think that, in my second term, I also called on the president of the NOB Association of Fighters to resolve the silence of all those who were supposed to be bound by silence to tell where these graves were. Because people want nothing but to light flowers and candles before they die and to say good-bye to their relatives. There's talk here on the average, we're listening to a lot of nonsense, not to talk about some of the balinian outbursts and simply because the depths of this topic are not understood. You don't understand it because it doesn't deepen enough. And it takes these deepenings, because only when you actually put things in your place to admit that something was seriously wrong, can you start building a better, healthier common future, on a healthy, not a rotten foundation. How can you not understand that? This isn't about us dealing with ideology. This has nothing to do with ideology, but it has a great deal to do with civilization's standards, with what rule of law means, with how we treat these things. And I do not allow anyone else in this national council to say that we are dealing with the past rather than dealing with the future. Because it's important to deal with the past if we didn't put things in our place when the time was right so that we could live a better future. And if you don't understand that, then I don't know what else to say, even at home in the families, if you don't put things in your place, they come back like boomerang. Like a boomerang. And they need to be taken as such. Unfortunately, I don't understand why some things weren't done when it was time, but they should be. If they were, we probably wouldn't be talking about it today. Above all, if things were to be put in place at that time when the time was right, everyone today would be supportive of such a change. Completely everyone, because this is in accordance with the rule of law, in accordance with international conventions. Where it's a crime, there's a criminal, and there's a crime to be punished. This isn't about revenge or revenge. This is about giving the Slovenian people a clear signal, and especially to the generations that are coming after us, young generations, the clear idea that if a crime happens, then this must be punished. We must abandon such a valuable system to our craftsmen. If we don't leave him, what have we done? Company anomaly, I'm sorry. And for years and years you've been hiding, hiding, rejecting everything that's related to these so important issues that are actually the essence and essence of the nation. You're always drifting away from them, jumping away from the truth. But once you have to call it enough. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party with this law, we are not doing anything else with the novelty of this law but simply putting things in our place and being clear and consistent. And, Sir Ferruga, I myself have been warning that there will be some obstacles that do not lead to a just solution when we have adopted this law. I kept reminding myself of that. And as an opposition Member, I think, I would feel very bad if I knew that things weren't going in the right direction in certain segments and parts of the law, but it would be quiet. I can't just be quiet, I can't be. And that doesn't mean I'm dealing with the past, but the future isn't. This means that I put things in my place so that we can also deal with the future. But you know what the biggest problem is? That your government is the one who should really start dealing with the future. How about that? Yeah, you blinked your shoulder, and I understand because we both know why. Because it is simply little done in all areas. I'm not saying nothing is done, I can't say it, but it's too little and of course too slow. That's what I'd expect from the government. And this is actually the work of the Government to deal with the future as well, or especially with the present and the future. Of course, until you lay the foundations of a healthy foundation, based also on the past, everything else is mere conjecture, mere conjecture, manipulation, and nothing else. Look, about 600 hidden seas and a lot of undiscovered, I said earlier, showing an incredible historical and social picture. Historical — Why? Because they point to a country that is sort of boned, we walk through the bones if I express myself more figuratively, each of us. At least I hope they're marking us, no matter which side these remains belonged to. We can't get around them, nothing more. We can't erase them, we can't erase them, even if we wanted to. We can't deny them anymore and cover them up, but there are facts. And now everything must be done to ensure that the process is also in accordance with legal principles. As for the social picture, however, it shows that it was after the war, and I know that colleagues, especially from the Social Democrats as heirs, the heirs of this totalitarian regime or Communist party, which has practiced many things, indicate that after the war, during the period when the time of peace came, the flower of the then Slovenian intelligence was killed. And it is not surprising, therefore, that, if I say so, artificially built, unnaturally built intelligence is fought so hard that it scrupulously retains all the privileges in all areas, even though this fact, which turned the image of the nation, was unjustly obtained. Mr Justin Stanovnik, I very much appreciate him, is a philosopher, a critical thinker, after the end of the war, has survived the prison camp of Teharje, then spent another year in the concentration camp of Strnišče on forced labour, but he is on one of the petition committees and on human rights and equal opportunities that the opposition has regularly obstructed in both the previous term and the current term, said the following; an exception to a thought that defines the whole time and shows how important it is to put the past where it is that we can live the present and better future, and to know what it means. Mr. Justin Stanovnik said at the meeting of the commission: "The hard questions save the elites. However, we have a problem elite because the new elite is a substitute elite. The real elite, historically, who were born and born organically, were killed in 1945. And the people who came to their places did not seem to feel that they were merely heirs to something, that the city did not tell them that they were merely heirs to something, and that in the entire diapazon from technique to literature, to art and perhaps even to the church.” End of quote. This shows the social picture of the Slovenian people. It is therefore necessary to discuss these matters. And that's why it's not about dealing with the past, it's about putting things in their place. Putting things in their place. It is surprising, however, that when politicians from the left, when it is necessary to show their faces before the soybeans, that everything is doing well in this area, when they say they are working for the future, even though they are dealing with the same issues as the Slovenian Democratic Party itself and the Slovenian Democratic Party, then they all say, and all the media cover it up to work for the future. But the Slovenian Democratic Party does not work for the future, but remains in the past, which is pure nonsense, and I reject this in its entirety. Not only have we proposed in this mandate an extraordinary number of laws that are linked to the present and future of people, that we wanted to improve the quality of life of people, but you have opposed, not only do we do all this, but we also realize that without knowledge of the past there cannot be a real and clear future. So I don't allow these anymore, I don't even know how to express myself, these words that are really just floscules. Really. Flossule flossules. At that time, they were killed by other thinkers; they were murdered by wealthy individuals, worldlings of advanced spirit, such as the married man Hribar. The country has now apologized to its relatives. People who cared for cultural, church, social life were killed, and in short those who threatened the system could have set up a political opposition. And so today is the time to really cut into this and finally make a break for it, but by respecting the rule first. This is how we can solve this. For we do not force you into not knowing what procedures, but merely to act in accordance with the laws, and to take them into account, to be taken into account in fact, but not to the extent that, after the current Article 9, paragraph 3, the Commission has a discretionary right to initiate the proceedings itself, without the presence of an investigative judge, which is a complete absurd, complete absurdity. The Commission informs them, but gentlemen from comfortable chairs and offices do not need to come to the city and see what is happening there. But it's a crime scene. It's a crime scene. Where the bodies were, a crime was committed. It's the waterfront. It is a seaport and therefore the law enforcement and detection authorities must be present in these places. But not just from the office thing, yeah, okay, we got to know the new sea. What kind of attitude does that have to do with anything? Then the commission can just start the proceedings. That's what we're warning you about. It's a minimum thing, but it's a key, crucial thing to deal with these issues in a fair way. Look, I have to say, the indifference of a certain part of the policy, which then goes to certain people, but especially politics, because politics is the one that then makes some kind of work, it is said, the indifference of a certain part of the policy to these historical issues of fact is terrifying to me. It is more than obvious that some of you cannot face a past that is not as impeccable as you have been shown or have been photographed for decades, you have been created by some of the villages of Pomecin. I believe this is difficult, but we can overcome this by working together. Help you, too. I understand that this is difficult if you have been told for years that only this is true, then it is difficult to recognize that there is a possibility of argument elsewhere, and that there are also arguments, not only arguments, but also evidence on the other hand, but that they must be taken into account. We never really condemned what happened. Never. And if he doesn't confess and condemn himself, there's a good chance they'll happen again. I have already said many times because we did not condemn postwar beatings when it was time that we did not go looking for the procession of the perpetrators, except in one case, and then this case was obsolete, of course the nation could not learn anything from it, and of course then there were killings not far from us in Srebrenica. And here let me read once again what a member of the Bosnian Serb army said: "Also, in 1945, Yugoslavia killed hundreds of thousands of prisoners and no one ever answered, so we believed that the tombs around Srebrenica would not be discovered until 50 years later, and then all will be forgotten." A statement that shows why it is so important that crimes are convicted at the right time and that the perpetrators must also be held accountable for the crime. It is said that if we condemn crime in due time and even if we give signals in good time as a society that procedures need to be processed, then there is less chance that such crimes will ever happen again. Once again, crimes against humanity, including this crime of genocide, are not outdated, nor are they outdated under international and not domestic law. But we have another problem, historically speaking, either in the use of the concept of history or in what is learned in history. Historic textbooks in primary and secondary schools still write with a very high degree of restraint about what was really going on. Very little, so in droplets, really in droplets. And not just that, it's all about the fact that there's still some kind of control over historical truth. And who are these people who are telling us that they are the only ones who are capable of having a real view of historical truth, but if we know that documents come from everywhere that show a completely different light every day. That even though people are still afraid, they speak out loud and tell us what was going on. And when you add up what two plus two is, you have to consider the other side of the story. This is not seen, but mostly not in Slovenian elementary and secondary history textbooks. That's the problem, and it makes me personally very sad. In short, I wish that today the National Assembly would overcome this wisdom and actually find that we are doing everything in order to set up an additional protector, as I have said many times before, and that we are actually making the law so that it will stand in all legal terms. And it is right that we remind the Slovenian Democratic Party of this every time, if necessary. And it's not going back in time, it's working for a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Get Dr. Mitja Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I must express my surprise at the position of the Government, which does not support any positive approach to improving these procedures as regards post-war excavations of victims and identification procedures. I must say, I am appalled by what is said in the government's position. I must also say that I am also very disappointed at the position of New Slovenia, which is preparing the basic law, which the coalition has apparently supported after some political trade, that these solutions are not supported by this improvement. Yesterday, I happened to watch some press conference from the commission, and I know that Dr. Mitja Ferenc spoke, who said that even after this law, they're having problems on the ground. So that in some cases it can't be confused with the locations where this sea happened. To find people who prevent the cross from being placed, not a star, but a cross, because it obviously goes on in these cases for Christian, Catholic people, and so on. The law is not perfect, the law that was passed in the National Assembly is not complete, but it meant some direction where certain things that were clear until then even relativized. When it comes to war crimes, we can't talk about war graves or postwar graves, that's short-term. The real definition is the crime scene, because there was a murder, mass murder took place. And until politics is able to name things with the right name in the National Assembly, until then there will always be problems with understanding certain concepts. I think we should put these things the way they're set up. In Teharja there was a camp, such as a camp in Dachau, such as the camp of Oswiencim or any other camp. And what happened in these postwar events or postwar seas, these are seas, not events, not that I don't know what. I think that Slovenia is one of the few countries where, in the majority part of the policy, the problem is even the definition, acts and convictions adopted by the European legal system. Even the principled acts adopted by the European Parliament or the European Council in the National Assembly cannot be confirmed and adopted in the original text. What differs from the original in condemning all three totalitarianisms — fascism, Nazism, and communism? What is the problem with the National Assembly? Or in this third, I guess I love you, close to your heart, totalitarianism didn't happen illegal things, murders and so on, mass murder. No totalitarianism has been maintained in power, not even for a long time without unlawful interference with human rights. Not one. None of the totalitarian systems were retained without mass executions committed on an unfair basis. This was happening in Cuba, this is happening in Zimbabwe, and this was also happening in some regimes where after World War II military juntas ruled when people were just disappearing. And this was done by all the so-called liberation formations that fought against capitalism and were supposed to make people happy and force them into a better future by cleaning up their country. We now have an example of this agreement with FARC in Colombia. When we turn a little back in the past and accept those past events, including the discovery of events from the past in the present tense, we have a good example of Germany. There is no case where a guard is discovered in a military camp or in this office, or as he has been told, and then, regardless of age, he is tried through a criminal procedure and convicted. We have convicts there who are almost a hundred years old, but from the point of view of the rule of law, from the point of view of culture, democracy, this is an important message that is happening in Germany. We in this country are not even capable of doing this. The first problem is probably that it is not recognised, and this is done by the top representatives of the Slovenian authorities that genocide has taken place. These post-war murders are not confessed to us as genocide. The president of the National Assembly speaks of the natural law of the winners, others repeat it and act that way. In this case, it is probably normal that where it does not appear, we no longer deal with alleged war graves, but we are dealing with actual killing sites. We've come into a situation where we have things mapped, identified, and we have actual killing sites with dozens, hundreds or thousands of people in each cemetery. And if the Slovenian Criminal Investigation Authority does not tend to put an investigative body there to cooperate and investigate these things, then we cannot say this in any other way than to try to minimize and banalise the matter in all possible ways. The fact that the Government and the investigating authorities are in a position to do so is unlikely to be considered as a two-faced state. It is impossible to assess this differently from duplicity. What did the victims of the war, regardless of age, kill, what were the victims of one car accident or another, or the victims of the murder? Why there can be a forensic investigation process there, but that's not happening here. I think we need to put ourselves in another role here. I ask the Secretary of State or the representatives of SD, Desus, SMC, what would you do if your child or your father were found in that abyss. Do you care if he's lying in there, or do you care if he's buried in three pieces, as now happens to be separately buried or taken out of his head, separately the rest of his body, and the third part, the femur, for a possible later DNA analysis that's even something critical? How would you personally view these things in SD and in Desus in SMC, so that, let's say, a group of people would come and capture your parents, kill them there, dump them in some cave, and then they'd be looking to make an investigation and figure out who did it, or would they be against? Would you care? Would you leave them in that abyss? Would these be the victims, like your parents, some events, or would they be the victims of the murder? I think it is easy to answer these questions. And if you can find the answer to that, then you know what we need to do in this country. I think that this kind of ignorance that we go back to the 21st century to these unfortunates who were killed is old from unborn children to a few monthly children to people 50, 70 years old and a whole bunch of young people that it's unacceptable. That's not a good message for you, too. And the government, which advocates or actively engages in the concealment of crime and the non-seeking of those responsible and those responsible for such acts, and even if they were likely to be discovered, would not even be condemned, probably cannot handle some quality procedures and solutions in other cases, because there is always an explanation. And all that is happening by blocking the search for those responsible, finding those responsible for such disgusting acts, is also due to the current events, which are related both to banking crime, economic crime and other things. It's all going the same way. When it comes to a small citizen who sold a parsley for the euro on the market, it has to be discovered because he did not register it via the tax box office, he is fined 3,000 euros to go bankrupt that moment. On the other hand, almost nothing is happening for all the documentary evidence of bank crime. And the government that is capable of such misdirection probably cannot solve the situation in this country, not in solving those post-war stories and seas, not in investigating and solving and looking for those responsible for modern crime. Impossible, it can't be effective because it doesn't even solve things at the base. And the question is, what are these postwar victims, the murdered victims, worse than the victims of the Bosnian war? There can be all the P.S. procedures, no regret, no effort, no regret, no time, no regret, no money. And every time they discover the victims and perform all the procedures for identifying the identity and service of the act, it's only after the burial, and it's an individual burial. An individual burial is made in Srebrenica. Our government representatives, the current President of the Republic, the former President of the Republic, the current President of the National Assembly, are always reminded at these Srebrenica events, some have even attended these funerals and know that something must never happen again, and that it is necessary to find the culprits. In his own backyard, in his own house, and in his own country, that's not how it happens. What is the reason why this same authority has double standards? One criterion of regret to events outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia and other criteria, other criteria to those that have occurred here in Slovenia. I'd like to ask the government to answer that. What is the reason why there are two different ways of approaching each other in the positions of the Slovenian state political authorities? Why do we deal in such different ways with the investigation and identification of victims of gonedic acts? I think that those who are responsible for this matter today should do everything they can to find out, and personal responsibility is also identified. The proceedings should be initiated, but obviously it is very easy for us to say a password of Fascism Death! Death to Nazism! but no one hopes to say the third things, death to those who have made most of our sacrifices during the war and after the war, and crimes in a particularly cruel way! Here we hear many times, even today we have heard someone or some lady who spoke the death of fascism! Why don't we just say what was actually our main problem? We had fascism, caused casualties, but these victims of fascism and Nazism in Slovenia were a few percent of all victims, 95% of the victims made a different regime, another authority, not mostly during the war, but mostly after the war. Most of the time after the war, when the regime had the structures of power, when it had the power of a court, since you had already had a revolutionary court during the war, they had a revolutionary trial during the war, and as without a complaint, the decree had fallen on their heads. You didn't even do it after the war. Obviously. But collectively they drive people into mine pits, tank ditches and karst caves. I wonder if you're SD Democrats, unable to condemn that third regime, saying "Death to communism!"? And Desos's SMC, also in New Slovenia, obviously because you took over the preparation of this law, which redefined the concepts. We are in a situation where all these concepts are redefined: murder is a postwar event; interwar murder; postwar murder is a war and interwar and postwar event. This isn't an event. It's not an event, it's a murder. And that kind of thing has to be condemned. When I do, when it's my turn, I expect you to do it. If you do this, I'll tell you. But when those thirds did, they should be told that it was wrong, and that the regime that was then did wrong to people, and that these things were wrong. We are now dealing with only one problem called the postwar sea. But no one deals with the mass exodus, which then occurred in war and postwar. A lot of intelligence and capable citizens of so-called intellectual, technical and philosophical spheres have gone to these killing sites, and one part has escaped them, thank God. And those now have a book release, who in America is the main innovator in space projects, in technical matters, in economic science and so on. [[…]] Generations of progeny or even themselves participated in key development projects of grandeur. But if we stayed with us, we'd end up in Teharya, in Kočevský Horn, and some other ditch. I propose that this proposal for a solution be supported by clarifying things as soon as possible, to determine who is responsible for what, to condemn things at a declaratory level where there is no other way. Where there are still living activists, they must be judged in the same way as they do in Germany with a guardian in Treblinka or elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Aleš Cantarutti, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman. So let me have a few answers to the questions from the debate. First of all, I must mention that the Commission, I am sure that the co-workers from the Ministry who assist the Commission with certain activities also carry out their tasks in a very sincere and effective manner. It seems to me that this is where the problem lies, that someone is being disturbed by these things, that we are still handling these things in a way that is decent and pietic. I must first correct my opening act when I finally mentioned that we do not like to talk about money in this context, but also this is important, it will not be a million in the next year, but the next budget period, says 2017/2018. Even after all the discussions of the Commission, we find that approximately half a million is the value that somehow meets all the needs of the Commission's action and action in this area. As far as Article 9 itself is concerned, I would like to point out that, in all cases, the practice so far has shown that both the probes and the crossings have been police officers. The police were always there, always there. Yes, the third paragraph is indeed referring to a certain possible scenario, for example, if, in the case of an investigation into a criminal offence due to objective circumstances, such as the years preceding, measures under the Law on the Procedural Procedure and the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, the perpetrator is not detected, a probe or a cross-department of the cemetery under the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of the Victims may be carried out. So, in other words, if in some previous probe, a transitional crossing does not lead to any results, then it is possible to do so without the presence of the police in the next phase. But, as it is said, in practice so far, it has not happened that it is not by the police. And it will be so, we assure you, the rest will remain in the future. As far as the number of procedures initiated is concerned, it is not a matter of the government commission, nor is it a matter of our ministry. My colleague and I can't give you an answer right now, this is a matter of law enforcement, but we can check and then we can give you a written answer. The idea of using bags. It's true, God forbid, it's not about construction, it's not about any more bad bags for municipal waste. I must immediately say that this bag is used more exceptionally than the rule in certain situations. One such situation is the case of the Hude Cave, where there is a very large number of remains, including biological remains. Of course, such remains are hard to get or cannot be put in a box. In these cases, special bags are used, the supplier of which is, by the way, a specialised undertaking engaged in funeral activities, i.e. bags which are intended to do so. In doing so – and I would like to stress this – we are following German practice. Germany has been mentioned several times today as an example of how these things are regulated by them. In this particular area, i.e. the use of these bags, the Commission has also used their example. I'd like to say more when we're talking about funerals in coffins, that in the spring the remains will be buried from the cave of Žiglovica and will be carried out in coffins. So wherever possible, and where, of course, all procedures are completed and allow for this from a purely technical point of view, this is also the case. Finally, I would say that I am pleased that most of you, however, have found that this law, which is now in force, works that, in fact, with a common strong both government commission and all the other bodies involved in this, are doing an important fivefold task, and that I — once again, if I am to ensure here — am fully effective. I'm glad you recognized that for the most part and found out. I don't know, some of you may need a little more time, but I'm sure we're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgle, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Given that I still have very or very little time left, let me once again say that I am asking coalition Members and opposition Members to support the amendment of the law because we are all working together for the future of all of us, but in particular we are acting in accordance with legal principles and civilisation standards. Article 9 of the Act, which we are amending, establishes a legal basis or establishes a legal basis whereby we want to ensure that the maritime validation and exhumation procedures work in accordance with the principles of criminal procedure. I believe that these are the key things that we need to define as a nation in a legal sense, so I expect your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u47	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. This also concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, 20 December, in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a personal assistance bill. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5 Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ivo Dimic. With regard to this bill, the Group of 11 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Mr Ivo Dimic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mrs Ivi Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u48	Dear President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Personal assistance is a system-wide support measure necessary to prevent and eliminate discrimination due to disability, while at the same time providing an indispensable lever for the right to self-reliance and inclusion in the community. Personal assistance is implemented and financed in Slovenia by project or programme, system or legal regulation of this area for many years. The key financier shall be the Ministry of Disability Care, which shall provide programme funding for personal assistance on the basis of a call for tender by the end of 2018. As early as 2010, the first draft of the Personal Assistance Act, prepared by the Ministry responsible for Disability Protection, in cooperation with persons with disabilities, users and experts, was in public debate. The proposal was not subsequently referred to the legislative procedure. Two years later, a bill proposed by more than 7,000 voters was tabled through the Institute of Human Initiative in the legislative process. There was no support for the proposal at the meeting of the home committee in the National Assembly. In December of the same year, the Ministry retransmitted a new draft law to the public debate, even in this case a legislative procedure was not initiated. At some point in the face of reality, we all know together that we can no longer change or correct the patient. One of the main objectives and strengths of rehabilitation is to reverse the process. Instead of adapting and normalising the patient to the environment, we need to start adapting the environment to the patient, and we have not shown ourselves here in Slovenia. The possibility of structured leisure, inclusion in productive life, social association, entertainment is extremely important for a patient in Slovenia. They don't write in the letters of readers, they don't protest under the windows of ministries, they don't throw granite cubes into parliament and they don't wear banners. They push wheelchairs, carry spoons of food into their mouth, change diapers, swallow tears behind four walls of housing. Lawmakers, the New Slovenia Group, estimate that after all years of efforts, taking into account Slovenia's commitment from the ratified Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Action Programme for Persons with Disabilities 2014-2021, and given that personal assistance has been implemented for many years, time has come to an end that personal assistants are legally or systematically regulated. In drafting the text, we were very rational in Novi Slovenija, and we followed the texts prepared in previous years with practical experience for the multi-annual implementation of assistance in the Slovenian space, and examples of good legal arrangements abroad, such as Denmark and Sweden. We are pleased that the law has received a wide-ranging positive response. In our presentations to those parliamentary groups that responded to our offer, we have all come to the conclusion that this is not an ideological but a completely life law that will finally acknowledge human dignity to often despised people. Most disabled organisations and many individuals have responded with letters and expressions of support for the adoption of the law in recent days, indicating that the system of personal assistance is indeed difficult to expect. Some have also expressed concerns, fears, a desire to talk, and we are already negotiating a meeting in the coming days. We suggest that the law should apply with 1. 1. 2019, mainly for two reasons: the current funding through public tender expires in 2018 and the second reason is that the Government has until then sufficient time to put in place a system of long-term care and long-term care insurance and comprehensively regulates the area of care from birth to death. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the law after confirmation at first reading can be further improved, finalized and reached as widely as possible on the proposed solutions. The decision makers are obliged to do it for people who have been waiting too long for us, everything and we will do it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities as Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has always devoted special attention to vulnerable groups, including people with disabilities. Ensuring equal human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of any personal circumstances, be it race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material situation, education, social situation, disability or any other personal situation, is a constitutional category and we are obliged to ensure this. The Republic of Slovenia has ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and has adopted several laws in the field of the rights of persons with disabilities which equalize the opportunities of persons with disabilities. Among other things, they provide employment with different incentives and quota systems. Acquisition of technical devices and adaptation of vehicles shall also be ensured. We are aware that personal assistance services are an indispensable means for the independent life of persons with disabilities. The personal assistant shall cover all areas of life and shall be adapted to the needs, wishes and lifestyles of each user and user in particular and shall be an indispensable means for the independent and independent life of the most deprived or handicapped persons in the community and an important contribution to deinstitutionalisation. For these reasons, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has been co-financing personal assistance programmes in the form of co-financing the employment of personal assistants since 2009. First we did this through the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia as part of an active employment policy, from 2011 to the end of 2014, through Assistant/Assistent programmes, from 1. 1. In 2015, however, through specific calls for the co-financing of personal assistance. At the end of 2014, the first invitation to tender was issued at the Ministry for a period of four years starting with implementation. 1. 2015 and with a duration of up to the end of 2018. In the spring of this year, we have also launched an additional public invitation to tender where we are additionally co-financed by personal assistants and assistants, while providing additional funds for all those assistants and assistants working on Sundays, holidays and nights. The Ministry currently co-finances 353 personal assistants and assistants amounting to EUR 760 per individual, with about a thousand users and users involved in the programmes. Currently, around €3 million per year is earmarked for this co-financing, representing 62.5% of the total cost of implementing personal assistance. The area of personal assistance, as I have already said, is of the utmost importance in order to equalise the opportunities of disabled persons and their more independent lives and to integrate them into society as a whole. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the proposal of the law and considers it an appropriate basis for further consideration. The bill under consideration is largely summarized or based on proposals drawn up by the Ministry, which have been compiled and supplemented by disability organisations. However, we would like to draw attention to the necessity of linking the arrangements for personal assistance with the arrangements for long-term care, as the applicant has already mentioned. We believe that there is a need to pay attention to this both in the further consideration of the law and after it has been adopted. However, it is also necessary to define in more detail the financial implications of the bill as well as certain institutions so that their purpose is clearly defined. However, this is certainly an area of personal assistance, once again I stress that there is a need for systematic regulation and that is why the Government does not oppose this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u51	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, welcome! In the area of personal assistance, we have a marriage gap to settle. Currently, we have a personal assistant arranged in the form of a so-called family assistant, who can only be a person who has a permanent residence at the same address as a disabled person, which means that the chances of a disabled person living alone are difficult. The current regime is only appropriate in terms of funding options and in practice many shortcomings are identified. Nor does such an arrangement follow the objective which should be pursued under the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The area of personal assistance is also partially implemented in the country through the financing of projects by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. It shall be provided for by the end of 2018. The advantages to be gained by personal assistants must be, in particular, that the beneficiary may choose for himself a suitable assistant who is educated in the wishes and needs of the beneficiary. It should also be possible for the user to direct assistance to his daily needs, as only in this way could he secure greater independence. Exceptionally important in the Convention are the provisions on independent life and inclusion in the community and personal mobility, which must be subject to legislative improvements, of course in the context of financial capacity and equal treatment of all groups of persons with disabilities. The main purpose of the bill before us is to provide assistance to persons with disabilities who urgently need such assistance, both in social activities and in daily tasks such as personal hygiene, nutrition, household assistance, escorting, assistance in communication and so on. Personal assistance shall be provided to persons with disabilities at home, at work, in education and also in social inclusion. It is intended for persons with disabilities who need at least 30 hours a week, those between 18 and 65 years of age who are not in institutionalised protection. The proposal provides the deaf, the blind and the deaf with a communication allowance or monetary compensation, which, according to the applicant’s assessment, would benefit 800 users. However, the draft law does not specify what the conditions for eligibility are and at what amount of the communication supplement we are speaking. According to the Government's opinion, the draft law is largely based on a proposal prepared by the Ministry years ago and takes into account a series of additions to later proposals, including the last one since the end of 2015. Given that a very similar proposal has already been prepared by the Ministry, we are surprised that the law was not tabled by the Ministry during this year. The motioners took advantage of the ministry's slowness and introduced the law into the parliamentary procedure. It seems a little unusual to us that the proposer proposes that the law should only be applied in 2019, which does not mean anything new for persons who need personal assistance in the next two years. It is also unclear from the material whether the law is in line with all disability organisations. In this area, there must be a fundamental guide: nothing about disabled persons. The area of personal assistance is too sensitive for politicians to pick up political points and play with the introduction of laws without adequate harmonisation and broader support for the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the area of personal assistance should also be regulated by law. The draft law may not be complete yet, but today it is hardly a first reading in the National Assembly, which means that it can also be completed through the procedures below. This is precisely why we will support the law at first reading in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u53	Ms Marinka Levičar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u54	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! There are over 650 million disabled people in the world. This means more than 10% of the population. In the EU, the number reaches 80 million, which is 16% of the population. In Slovenia, however, between 160 and 170 000, which is a similar percentage to that of the EU, is about 16%. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities underlines the importance of the independence of persons with disabilities, their independence, including freedom of choice. Independence is key to equal inclusion in society. Creating equal opportunities for people with disabilities in all areas of life is the task of the State and local communities, and is also the basis for recognising the dignity of persons with disabilities, respect for human rights and non-discriminatory social practices. In 2010, we adopted the Law on Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities. This law is a general umbrella law, as other, sectoral, rules are also important to the realization of the rights of persons with disabilities in terms of equalization. One such rule is certainly the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. We've had it since 2004. It has a very positive role to play in creating a favourable environment for the integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market. The number of people with disabilities has increased significantly since the entry into force of the law, however, let me add that in the Desus Group we believe that we should not give up our efforts in order to ensure that as many persons with disabilities can be employed in ordinary businesses. And what is the position of the Desus Group on the proposed law on personal assistance? Like the law on long-term care, we have been looking forward to this for too long. We are working for both of us in the Desus Group, and we believe that both themes are closely linked and should be addressed in an integrated manner. In particular, in the last five years, the activities for the adoption of the Personal Assistance Act, both civil initiatives and the competent ministry, have been numerous and varied. The proposal we are talking about today has not actually been written by New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. The contents of the law have been produced by some past governments at the Ministry, but somehow, unfortunately, the determination to take a decision in the National Assembly has always been lacking. The Desus Group is pleased, respected colleagues and colleagues from Nova Slovenije, that you said bob beans, pulled the line and broke the line by squirming. There is no regulation that makes it clear who, what, and why assistance should be provided in the form of assistance so that he can live a life of his own and of his quality. Nevertheless, of course, personal assistants run through various programs and invitations smoothly, but according to our assessment they are underfed. There is no doubt that the proposed text includes all the necessary substantive points that are relevant for the implementation of this form of assistance to persons with disabilities. The beneficiaries of the service, the enforcement process, the implementation and the providers of personal assistance and, last but not least, the financing are defined. However, the government has pointed out that some of the minorities are still open, such as the question of the single entry point of beneficiaries under this law and also the law on long-term care, which we expect too long, and we hope that, as promised, it will be adopted soon. However, the financial model will need to be considered. We will also probably point out another point in our parliamentary group, which should be more clearly defined, for example, in the case of beneficiaries, needs and operators, but at the stage of further legal treatment on the home committee. At this point, the bill is supported and voted in favour by Members of Parliament and Members of Desus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u55	Mrs Marija Bacič has the floor, and on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, she will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thanks again for the word. Colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats will support the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act at first reading, because we believe that it is high time that we move from words to actions after a long, loud discussion on the content and rights to be derived from this law. It's time for us to make decisions. Decisions will possibly be adopted at the end of different from those proposed, but they must all be individual-oriented, follow the user and his needs. We need to answer a question that has been unanswered for too long, and this is why it is taking too long to do so. Should we resolve the existing situation in a separate law, as is the case at the table today, knowing that we are missing some groups, or should we settle the whole area in one long-term care and personal assistance law, where we will have to address the entire beneficiary population with solutions? The government planned solutions under a single law. However, according to the Government's opinion on this proposal, this also favours the solution of personal assistance in a separate law if it relates to the law on long-term care, which the Government considers to be crucial. We believe that there is a need for an objective, realistic assessment of what solution would be better, faster and more effective from the point of view of users, but of course we cannot go beyond the financial assessments that such solutions bring. The current situation in terms of organisation and funding is not good, as it is opaque and complex. In the existing system, long-term care and personal assistants are not an independent area. The rights to services and monetary benefits for persons dependent on foreign aid are subject to different legal acts, and potential recipients must seek assistance in different institutions. For individual rights, the same criteria are not taken into account and the level of aid received by an individual is not always consistent with its actual needs. In this respect, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted a starting point for a new law on long-term care, personal assistance and long-term care insurance, which sets out to regulate these areas in an integrated manner, under one law. But things will always and almost certainly be here, and even though this is a very pessimistic and blackish forecast, they will stop funding. The new system envisaged by the Government focuses on the first need to clearly identify the resources intended for long-term supply within a single source and their partial and complete transfer to the new common treasury. We already know that the current scale does not allow quality, accessible and integrated long-term care, in view of the needs, and that an additional source of money needs to be provided. According to the Ministry of Labour's latest assessment, an additional €90 to €110 million will have to be made available at annual level in order to implement the new legislation. The issue of long-term financial sustainability and additional public resources needed to finance quality integrated services under the new law is a key issue. And until it's answered, we're going to be wandering in gray foxes for so long, it's practically impossible to adopt a law. This or any other with such content. The aim of the new arrangements for a long-term care and personal assistance system should be to establish a comprehensive system of assistance for persons who are long-term or permanently insolvent in carrying out basic daily and support activities and consequently in social inclusion. The new legislation should provide for a uniform integrated system of services and benefits, i.e. rights, a uniform procedure for identifying needs, integrating the implementation of aid for all persons from birth to death, with an emphasis on quality care in the home environment. The source of the system must be the user and its needs, the scope, content and forms of assistance must be identified and provided on the basis of uniform criteria and in a single procedure in which the user is an active participant. The government draft takes all this into account and provides for a uniform definition of the operator, harmonised standards and standards and their related and coordinated operation, and for uniform support and supervision of their operation. In the new arrangement, the money follows users to the operator, the rights and level of funding are uniform for all operators. The proposed law has our support and it will be necessary to adapt certain articles further so that this law can apply to the long-term supply law and thus achieve the objectives of the new regime in an integrated, systematic manner as envisaged by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u57	Mr Matjaž Hanžek will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The United Left will support the law at first reading. Even now, I can say that some essential corrections will be needed in the second reading. Without these corrections, some groups of people with disabilities will still be without personal assistance. Without these corrections, people will still depend primarily on how engaged and financially strong their family is, and of course we advocate the right of comprehensive personal assistance as a universal right for all, regardless of property or income. Given that the Government does not object to the proposal, I expect that the law will survive the first hearing, but of course this is not a guarantee that it will ever be accepted, and even less, that it will eventually be tailored to the needs of all persons with disabilities. We have many laws that are stuck in the process, even those that are in the coalition agreement. As we say, we will support the marriage. The government’s previous approach, which in every way sought to regulate disabled persons in the same marriage as the long-term care of the elderly, led to a dead end. It should be borne in mind that disabled persons in need of personal assistance are inadequately less than elderly citizens in need of long-term care. On the other hand, the involvement of persons with disabilities in active working life is much more difficult than ensuring the long-term care of pensioners, and in particular personal assistance requires significantly less money than long-term care. Therefore, no additional resources are needed for personal assistance, only the budget currently at EUR 4.9 million should be increased. However, for serious long-term care, it will be necessary to introduce a specific compulsory contribution or duty — deliberately to the right amount and not a contribution, since it is necessary to prevent long-term insurance from being provided by commercial insurance undertakings at all costs. The last thing we need is a new kind of supplementary health insurance. Now, of course, I must point out the essential shortcomings of the proposed law and suggest solutions. The first problem is the definition of beneficiaries, which is at least two ways too narrow. The law provides that only residents up to 65 years of age would be entitled to personal assistance. The logic is that after 65 years they should be given long - term care anyway. This age limit is totally unjustifiable and literally cruel. A personal assistant for someone who became blinded by diabetes at age 65 is something completely different from caring for an elderly person who normally sees and is simply old. It is also a cruel restriction that only someone who needs an assistant service is entitled to personal assistance for at least 30 hours. The government proposal was even worse because it demanded 40 hours. Today's proposal has also taken a step forward for the blind and deaf as they are recognised to be entitled to a communication allowance of up to 5 hours of aid per week. But the societies of the blind and the visually impaired are justifiably protesting, and the range is absolutely unacceptable. If you're blind, they give you five hours of a week's escort, which isn't enough for someone to escort you back and forth five times a week. However, if you need, say, 29 hours of personal assistance, the Republic of Slovenia would not provide you with any. I spoke about this earlier when I said that the law must be imposed on life, it must be defined according to the real needs of persons with disabilities, not by the line of least resistance of bureaucrats who will implement decisions. It was precisely because of these non-life borders that all the proposals made so far fell. They created an artificial conflict between different categories of people with disabilities. The real conflict is not between different groups of people with disabilities, the real conflict is between people with disabilities and their families on the one hand and the political class on the other. The real reason for non-life restrictions is to save, but if we look at what kind of funds it really is, we can see that saving in financial terms is also meaningless. In 2015, 4.9 million were used for personal assistance, as I have already said. You can take me to the demagog, but it's only right that people understand what I'm talking about. It would take 8 million a year to implement this law. As a result of two changes in the income scale adopted by Cerar's coalition, the budget will lose €80 million next year. In short, the coalition did not shake its eye when it donated €80 million for 10% of the best paid in the country. And we are talking about a ten times smaller amount for people with disabilities, so I am warning the disability organisations that what ministers and some Members are saying is that they should give, but that money is simply not a lie. When we propose personal assistance for everyone they need, they will say it is an unrealistic demagogy, but when their government sends an army to project stability for 12 million in Latvia, they will say it is a deliberate policy. The position of the United Left is therefore simple: a full-year disabled person is entitled to personal assistance. Pika. With the help of an assistant, she will be able to perform those activities that she could carry out on her own if she was not physically disabled; if she needs one hour per week, we will provide her with one hour per week, if she needs 24 hours per day, we will provide her 24 hours per day. The money devoted to personal assistants will not disappear in tax havens where the money from tax breaks goes, it will be spent on salaries and workers' contributions and on domestic consumption. The second essential point concerns the labour rights of personal assistants. At present, virtually all assistants are interns, employed according to projects lasting no more than two years. In most cases they are employed for minimum wage and this minimum wage must be co-financed by disabled companies. We cannot believe that the Government boasts in its position that the employment of a personal assistant is subsidised by 760 euros, since the total cost of working as an assistant to a minimum is at least EUR 40. Users' societies pay a difference from their own resources, including membership fees. However, the personal assistant is ultimately employed for a minimum wage, so it is also necessary to include safety guards against leaks. One of these guards is what Nova Slovenije has excluded from this law, which is the provision that personal assistant is a public service. We need a network of institutions that will be designed according to the real needs of people with disabilities, but not according to the strength of individual disability organisations. This is necessary for two reasons: the State must provide personal assistance to everyone regardless of whether they are in a society or not, regardless of how capable this society is. This can only be done by including public institutions in the provision of personal assistance at home, without restricting the autonomy of persons with disabilities. On the other hand, it is necessary to set a minimum wage for workers and to allow them to organise themselves in a trade union. I seriously doubt that he has 353 nicknames who are currently personal assistants, what a union. In the end, I'm going to define myself until the funding. As it is said, no new resources are required for personal assistance. Even if we were to provide it with the widest possible extent – I am talking about costs of 30 million a year – it would make sense to finance these costs from long-term benefits or contributions for long-term care. I'm talking about giving, not insurance. Of course, we do not agree to the Ministry of Labour proposals. The 2014 draft proposed compulsory contractual insurance and proposed supplementary insurance last July. In short, the last thing we need is a new supplementary insurance. We are therefore pleased that the preparation of the Long-Term Care Act has been taken over by the Ministry of Health, where they continue to promise the abolition of supplementary health insurance, so I assume they will not introduce it for long-term care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u59	Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u60	Dear Members, dear Members, citizens who are beneficiaries of personal assistance, good day! For too long, a group of people who, due to the consequences of their severe disability, urgently need the help of another person in social activities and basic needs such as personal hygiene, clothing, feeding, household and other daily tasks, movement and communication are in some way discriminated against. In the past, it has appeared several times that we were just before the establishment of the area, and unfortunately, the laws, whether governmental or human, were not adopted. I must admit that I have a bad conscience myself because I was part of those Members who in 2012 rejected one of the personal assistance laws. At that time, we did so with a serious conviction that the Personal Assistance Act at the Ministry would be ready by the end of 2012 and also adopted. More than four years have passed since then. Today, at the end of 2016, we all have the opportunity to correct our mistakes together again. I confessed mine. The coalition made exactly the same or similar mistake as I did. New Slovenia with a new stone in the mosaic meets part of its programme. The adoption of the Personal Assistance Act will make Slovenia a more normal country, that is for sure. In Novi Slovenije we have drafted a law that allows people with disabilities to live in a community and make the same decisions about their lives as others; this should be ensured by personal assistance at home, in the workplace, in education and in the integration into the social environment. The aim of the law is to provide support to a disabled person or woman in the implementation of those activities relating to integration into a society which cannot be carried out alone because of the type or degree of disability. A person’s personal assistance changes his life substantially, starting to manage his own life, deciding what he will do, how and when he will become more autonomous and confident, increasing his independence toward family members, feeling useful, as he can contribute to the community. Gain dignity, which is often precisely due to the need for great help and dependence on fellow humans. Personal assistance enables users to have as much independence as possible in relation to a narrower and wider environment. Perhaps someone will say that these are just nice words, but I had the opportunity to get to know these things myself in just one day when I was working as a personal assistant when disabled organizations allowed us to experience what we might hear through witnessing, even personally and see what personal assistance means in practice. Mrs Martina gave me this opportunity and opportunity to experience this experience, and she certainly changed me in some way. The law also brings significant added value from the point of view of creating new jobs and employment opportunities in the profession of personal assistant, which is certainly not negligible. I am convinced that Slovenia is still a wealthy country to allow itself to not have personal assistants yet. If we can spend millions on a variety of things – some of which have already been mentioned today – if more than €10 million can be obtained by doctors, it is only right that at least €8 million will receive personal assistance. In recent days we have received many letters from citizens asking us to support the Personal Assistance Act. Many personal experiences have been described. Things that most of us take for granted are challenging to some. That they can shower with the help of a personal assistant that they are not chained to bed all day long so that they can eat with dignity, go for walks, after usual work, many disabled people would not be able to do all this without personal assistants. I must also mention the social factor, this is a society as an interlocutor. We may have experience of being alone all day, not of our own free will, and never knowing whether someone will come or not. These are all the life and personal experiences that citizens have been sending us these days. And on the day that I was a personal assistant to Mrs Martini, I did not have the opportunity to see just how personal assistants were taking place at home, but the lady also allowed me to see how home care was being provided. The difference in quality of life is dramatic and great. Somehow you are shaken by the information that the price difference is not so important. At first glance, it may seem that home care is free — no, home care costs. If you compare home care with personal assistance, you conclude that there is no significant, very high price difference, but there is a huge difference in the quality of life. As I said, this personal assistant's day has been an invaluable experience for me. I know that in one day I didn't realize or experience everything that all these citizens are going through. But I do know that this experience has changed me and that I have been a keen advocate ever since that time that these citizens deserve their personal assistance, and that it costs them as much as it wants. The proposed Personal Assistance Act thus provides a broad and comprehensive solution, which may provide a good basis for regulating personal assistance along with long-term care and long-term care insurance. The basic principles that we have followed in this law before you are: respect for the dignity and independence of the user, the right to free choice and decision during the exercise of the right to personal assistance and its implementation, the right to participate in the community, individual treatment and, in particular, the provision of equal opportunities and accessibility. It is probably too much to point out that the Members of New Slovenia will support this law, logically, because we have prepared it and put it into procedure ourselves. But today's December day is an extremely beautiful opportunity for us to join the Members of the other parliamentary groups in doing this and thus make December and December days beautiful for all, including those who need or will need personal assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u61	Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Although the Government, in its opinion on the proposed Personal Assistance Act, stated that it devotes particular attention to vulnerable groups, including people with disabilities, it is not particularly noticeable. Last but not least, the constant calls made by a whole range of different disability organisations, as well as recent European institutions, also bear witness to this. Personal assistants and long-term care are two areas that should have been regulated yesterday, and we are still not even sure we will do so tomorrow. Some will say that this needs to be regulated in the context of long-awaited health reform, while others say that both areas need to be regulated in a coherent manner. Disability organisations have shared views here too, although we all agree that arrangements for both personal assistance and long-term care are more than necessary. And as with everything in life, the issue of financing will also be raised here, whether we need some new contribution, a new type of insurance or sufficient financial resources from FIHO. What about the medical checkout? However, given the fact that there is no crisis, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are confident that the Government will also find sufficient reserves here and provide the necessary resources for the implementation of both personal assistance and long-term care. As I said before, the Personal Assistance Act is one of those laws that we know are more than necessary. It's one of those laws that governments promise us and then they stop at this point. The draft law tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members is not a new draft which Members would have seen for the first time. In 2010, a former government put forward a first draft of the Personal Assistance Act prepared by the Ministry in cooperation with disabled users and experts. The proposal was not subsequently referred to the legislative procedure. In 2012, a bill proposed by more than 7,000 voters was tabled through the Institute of Human Initiative in the legislative process. The proposal at the meeting of the home committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was not supported. In December 2012, the Ministry retransmitted a new draft law to the public debate, even in this case a legislative procedure was not initiated. In autumn 2013, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the starting points for the preparation of the Proposal for a Law on Long-term Care, Personal Assistance and Long-Term Care Insurance, which also established the Framework Timetable for the preparation and implementation of the Act, which was to be adopted in early 2014. The last draft of the Personal Assistance Act was prepared by the Deinstitutionalisation Network at the end of 2015. At the beginning of this year, the Ministry formulated comments and additions to the material, and no party submitted the proposal to the legislative procedure. Therefore, it is more or less about the text of the law, which has also been drafted by the Deinstitutionalisation Network on the basis of all drafts from 2010 to 2015, which is a text which, according to the Government, is also appropriate for further consideration. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a fundamental basis for the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act. This provides, inter alia, that persons with disabilities, like others, have the opportunity to choose permanent residence and decide where and with whom to live and do not have to stay in a special environment. Secondly, that persons with disabilities have access to various services at home and to housing and other support services in the community, including personal assistance necessary for life and inclusion in the community and to prevent loneliness or community exclusion. Personal assistance is a full implementation of this Convention, helping the user in all those tasks and activities that the user cannot carry out alone because of the type and degree of disability, but needs them at home and outside the home every day in order to live an independent and equal life in society. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the proposal of the Personal Assistance Act as it allows for the maximum range of personal choices, dignity and respect for individual human rights. A personal assistant is the institution that enables people with disabilities to have a relatively independent life, outside the institutions that, as some sociologists call them, are the remains of some other time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u63	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state, distinguished audience! I know some of you, of course. The Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act at first reading. I have a personal disability experience, and this subject is very close to me. I have experience taking care of someone 24 hours a day and being a personal assistant to my daughter, not just one day, but every day, well, as far as I'm concerned about this function at home. I am very pleased to accept that the Personal Assistance Act has finally been introduced into the parliamentary procedure. Thank you to the NSI Group, it has taken too long to decide whether to file a bill together with long-term care or on a case-by-case basis, and now the law is finally in the parliamentary procedure. We all talked about not talking for the first time today about this issue in the National Assembly, about the Law on Personal Assistance, of course, the motioner's initiative warned that the legal arrangements were too long. As I have already said, as the proponent states, the law before us is, in fact, the first law in Slovenia, which deals with and regulates personal assistance. It is important that this area is regulated by law, because it is now financed on the basis of projects, calls for proposals and so on. It will also, together with the Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities and other rules governing the rights of persons with disabilities, create conditions for an integrated solution to all key problems in this area. The bill offers solutions that cannot be disputed, are urgently needed and can be narrowed down into six key elements: it defines personal assistance, defines beneficiaries who are financed by the law, and defines a basket of services, defines the way in which personal assistance is carried out, lays down the conditions for providers of personal assistance and defines the exercise of personal assistance. It also regulates the keeping of records of users and operators of personal assistance and also of offences, of course, this is an integral part of most laws. Today, personal assistance programmes are financed from various sources; a large proportion of these resources are the call for proposals from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, where 4 million funds were awarded in November 2014 and implemented by the end of 2018. This is also the reason why this law, as has already been said, was set up to be implemented in 2019. Other important sources of funding are the funding of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations — FIHO. In the past, the Assistant/Assistent programme was also funded through the Employment Service. However, the purpose of listing the sources of funding for personal assistance is not to show that this area is regulated in our society and that we do not need the law, on the contrary. These facts show that, due to the dispersion of facts and mostly project funding for personal assistance, our society does not provide long-term social security for those most in need. It does not guarantee that in the long term they would have 100% access to the physical, social and economic environment and technologies and thus have full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is precisely because of the necessity of legal regulation of the area of personal assistance that we have undertaken in the coalition agreement to resolve the issue of long-term care in the common law. The events have preceded this purpose and today we have the law of the New Slovenia Group of Members and Members of the New Slovenia Group, whose concept was created years ago at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Finally, if we go back to the basic purpose of the law, this is to enable people with disabilities to live in a community and to make the same choices as others about their lives, we can attach such a purpose to it. A year ago, when we discussed a similar bill drawn up by one of the civil society institutions in the Modern Centre Party Group, we found that the proposal at the time did not enjoy sufficient support between the disability organisations. In doing so, we point out that there is an urgent need for unification between disability organisations. The debate will show how much more so it actually is. In doing so, we point out that there is an urgent need for unification between disability organisations, a consensus is possible and unresolved issues and obstacles can be overcome together, we are confident of that. In order to provide all persons with disabilities with an appropriate form of assistance, we will also actively cooperate further in the legislative process. Dear ones, especially those who have sent numerous letters of support to support us in supporting the Personal Assistance Act! I couldn’t answer all of them myself, I’m one of them, but know that — and personally — we have read all of them. I couldn't answer everything, but this time I had an easy task – and I can also think of myself, a pleasure because I knew it would be so – to say that we will support the marriage at first reading and that we will also reshape it in further consideration by adopting it. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the law at first reading and we will also actively participate in its adoption at second and third reading. Activities are already under way, we will do everything possible to ensure that the law actually achieves that purpose and will be of the best benefit to those who are beneficiaries under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u65	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. I give the floor to the representative of Ms Ivi Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much to all representatives of the parliamentary groups who have expressed your views. I can say that I am pleased that you understand the need for disabled persons to have a legal arrangement of personal assistance that allows disabled people to live in a community on their own, I will say, a decent life. And it can, of course, be provided by a personal assistant or a personal assistant. Perhaps today, during the debates and the views of other parliamentary groups were said to have been waiting because personal assistants wanted to be complemented by long-term care. I can say that we have waited too long – even in the New Slovenia Group – that we have been waiting for a system order since 2011, even before the law was born since 2010, as it was said. In 2012, I myself experienced the rejection of the law on the parental committee, and since then in New Slovenia we have made a real effort to adopt such a law. Of course, of course, we all want long-term care to be arranged, including in Slovenia, but the Personal Assistance Act cannot wait for long-term care to be settled or not in the future. The disabled live here, now, with us. And, of course, they must be allowed to live as wide and as wide as possible as we all do. If we allow them to do so through a personal assistant, it is just as my fellow Member, Matthew, said - to cost as much as he wants. Maybe a few statistics. In August 2016, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection published an analysis of the implementation of personal assistance programmes in 2015. The analysis concludes that in 2015 a thousand 125 users were included in the personal assistance programmes and 159 were included in the waiting line. Among those involved, the traffic is dominated, 44.6% of all involved, a good half of those involved receiving one of the care allowances and the assistance of the other person due to disability. On average, they receive 12.2 hours of assistance per week, and four tenths of them would need more hours of personal assistance than they now receive. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that a good three-quarters of those involved receive personal assistance in the form of escorts, almost 60 % aid in the performance of support daily tasks and slightly less than half of all assistance involved in the performance of basic daily tasks. All employees under the Personal Assistance Programme are 392, of which 366 personal assistants. The analysis further shows that in 2015 it was earmarked from various sources, as has already been said, for the implementation of a total of €4.9 million in personal assistance, of which 62.5% were from the State budget. So, too now, the entire cost of providing personal assistance is not on the shoulders of the State or the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, but also from other programmes. Here I think FIHO funds are very important. In support of our marriage, as a colleague from SMC said, many letters arrived. As has already been said, not all disabled organisations agree with the bill, but I think it is important to stress that we have not had such a high degree of unity of disability organisations as in this law in Slovenia. We have received a letter from parents of deaf children who have certain concerns, with whom we have arranged tomorrow, and we have an appointment to meet. Of course, the law is still open to change it, to improve it, and I am glad that we all know how to improve it, and that we will listen to disabled organisations, not least. Here I thank you for supporting the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, the Society of YHD, the Society of Distrophysics of Slovenia, the Union of Paraplegics of Slovenia, the Association of Multiple Sclerosis of Slovenia and could also list all other forms of disability organisations. It is important that we have also laid the groundwork in the National Assembly, and it is important that we all realize that the matter needs to be settled so that the law is ideal. We have time, of course, to make it ideal, even during this consideration in the National Assembly, but the law, as I said, will enter into force with 1. 1. 2019. And, of course, it is the task, including coalitions, to bring the long-term supply law to the fore as soon as possible. We all want this law, and, finally, I think it is very important that I mention this in this introductory part, that the person who needs personal assistance is sensitive to all our statements and promises, because in fact he can count only on our promises, and of course he will be happy in the future of our actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u67	The word has magic. Tanja Zink, get ready for mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mrs. Cink.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues and others present, a nice greeting from my side too! In Slovenia, we have been talking for years about the necessity of a system of personal assistance or planning it, we have all been very united all this time, that people with disabilities have the right to equal treatment, i.e. to the same rights as people with disabilities, that they have the right to an independent and independent life. However, this still remains an unfinished story today, because obviously there has not been sufficient consensus for it so far between the various disability organisations, not enough political will or political consensus, not least. As already presented today among the views of the parliamentary groups, the first attempt by the government proposal in 2010 was unfortunately unsuccessful. In 2012, YHD's proposal on the tables was also apparently condemned to failure, followed by two more, and today we have a proposal from the NSI Group. However, I must admit that I regret that the proposal did not come from the Government, but at the same time I admit that for too long it has only been talking about legislation and that it is therefore necessary to sever species at this point in time to come up with a solution that will be of the greatest benefit to the most vulnerable, in order to benefit the disabled and, above all, that the law will be supported. Of course, this does not mean that nothing is guaranteed for the disabled in us, but it is also true that no major progress has been made in this area in the last ten years or so. In short, but very thorough, the current situation is summarised in the report of the Institute of Social Protection, which prepared an analysis for 2015, where it says: "In Slovenia, personal assistants are still funded by project, operators apply for various calls through which they obtain funds for the employment of personal assistants and the implementation of personal assistance programmes. Nationally set guidelines on assessment of needs, entry criteria, content of the implementation of personal assistance and the like, so that operators decide for themselves how and to whom they will provide personal assistance and what they will perform under the terms of personal assistance." This is very clear about the fact that the subject is without a doubt worth today's debate and even a sober reflection on how to proceed. If we evaluate personal assistance in money; where the exercise of personal assistance was concerned, for example, funds amounting to EUR 2.5 million were distributed in 2013 and 2014. In 2015, €2.6 million and €3 million were distributed through programmes for a more independent life of persons with disabilities due to the late redefinition of the minimum wage. The analysis carried out for 2015 by the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia shows that €4.9 million has been allocated from various sources. We can say it over our fingertips like this, but very much in mind, it takes about 3, 4, 5 million euros. What I am asking myself here is how much money we actually need for the proper delivery of services, because this is a gap, given that the applicant estimates about 8 million euros a year. So I expect you to provide more precise explanations in this regard. In addition, we know that certain services that support people with disabilities are still being implemented, even under other social security rules, such as family assistants and home aid services. The needs of the disabled are also very different, and therefore I think it is necessary to know exactly what that minimum is or where the limit is, in fact, that provides a more independent life for these people. If I only give an example: after this proposal, for example, blind, deaf and deaf people are allowed to exercise the right to a communication allowance in the form of five hours of personal assistance per week. I don't know if that's really the limit that gives these people a independent and independent life. This is certainly a matter of profession, but I wanted to point out that it is also necessary to have an appropriate answer. To conclude, I would just like to say that it would probably be more reasonable to draw up a law that regulates personal assistance and long-term care – but this is a very personal opinion – because it is an entanglement of issues. However, on the basis of a separate proposal, there will certainly be a need for good cooperation between the key ministries, as well as the coalition and the proposer, if we want the law to live, which should have been a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u69	The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare the mags. Bojana Muršič and Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go, Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the Government and others present! We have before us the bill on personal assistance. Unfortunately, it is not yet fully in the form that people, the beneficiaries of public services of personal assistance, would need, but in the materially distorted content and with the shortcomings that the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities would address during the legal process. Promise the competent ministry that the shortcomings of the draft Law on Personal Assistance will be over, it is due to support this law in the First reading of the Desus Group. We are pleased that the introduction of this law has encouraged the competent ministry to complete the long-term care law, which should also include the area of personal assistance to individual persons with disabilities in their daily and other tasks. The shortcomings of the proposal for a law tabled by Nova Slovenija are also noted by the Association of Blind and Disabled Slovenian Associations, which, like the Desus Group for many years, has warned the competent ministry that the issue of long-term care and personal assistance needs to be adequately addressed in only one common law, which clearly sets the scope of the services covered by the law and identifies the sources of funding for these services. The association of blind and visually impaired Slovenian societies challenges the claims made in public that the bill should be aligned with all representative disability organisations, since the proposal should not respond to the key needs of individual groups of persons with disabilities, not even the blind and the visually impaired. It is unusual that the Directorate for Disabled Persons should be with the competent ministry and the competent minister for the letters addressed to them so far, and I hope that in the future it will strengthen the services of those who need long-term care and personal assistance. All drafters of the legislative proposals should be subject to the rule of drafting legislative proposals in cooperation with those concerned by the law. In this case, the password we have heard here today should be: nothing about disabled persons without disabled persons. The Union of Civil Disabled Persons of the Wars of Slovenia, which represents about 170,000 people with disabilities, also objects to the proposal for a law tabled by Nova Slovenija, also because the proposed law did not arise with the participation of disabled people, although the law concerns them. At the competent ministry, I believe that the preparation of an appropriate law on long-term care, which should be created in cooperation with those concerned by law, is also hampered by private interests which would like a significant part of long-term care and personal assistance to be regulated by example of today's problematic supplementary health insurance or Dutch contractual compulsory health insurance. Appetizers, even at the expense of the poor and the less wealthy, often hinder the enforcement of good and needed solutions. We have already heard something about this problem from the United Left today. Given the poor social situation of the majority of the elderly and the disabled, it is almost impossible to expect private insurance in this area, except for the narrow, wealthy, elite and the young generation with solid salaries, as private insurance of such large risks in the existing population would require significant payments from people from pockets that people could not afford in most cases. However, in the case of public financing of long-term assistance with the aid involved, this means that such a law would require necessary public funds, which can be combined in solidarity with existing financial resources in particular at the time of the introduction of new levies, which can only come into the system from companies and more tangible in the country. Seizures to wealth and wealth, however, always trigger a lot of resistance for those with the greatest political and media power in the country, and therefore it is difficult to introduce them. Members receive a lot of personal letters these days, especially from the users of the Personal Assistance Programme of the Association for the Theory and Culture of Handicap, which highlight the life dependence on personal assistance, which, despite the illness that has made them almost incompetent, has enabled them to function again and independent of the assistance of relatives, neighbors and friends, which is particularly important for disabled people living alone. That is why I am pleased that, despite all the shortcomings of the proposed law, his application has taken place. However, I hope that the Ministry will also address its shortcomings in a timely and appropriate manner. Let me further recall some of the major shortcomings of the proposal for a law that the competent ministry should fully address in a very short time. For the first time, long-term care and the personal assistance system are closely linked and the Ministry should introduce a comprehensive law addressing long-term care and personal assistance problems. Secondly, the bill excludes users from the aid scheme only because they are over 65 years of age, which is not acceptable and also discriminatory provision, so the disabled of the war in question could virtually not benefit. Thirdly, the entry threshold for those entering personal assistance services is discriminatory as it allows the exercise of the right of a narrow group rather than the majority. Restrictions on the receipt of aid should be based only on expert assessments for this by the competent institutions. Fourthly, according to the organisations of persons with disabilities, there is also a problem with a communication supplement that is supposed to be of no use to some groups of persons with disabilities. Fifthly, there is a similar questionable provision in Article 26, paragraph 3, which provides that, where the user is entitled to receive an aid and service allowance or other monetary benefits received under the rules on the need for foreign care and assistance, the user shall be entitled to this benefit for the co-financing of personal assistance. And six times, there is also a lack of clear correlation, i.e. the interaction between the proposed law and other social legislation, which raises additional doubts about the organisations of persons with disabilities in the appropriateness of the proposed law. I have no doubt, therefore, that the applicant is well-intentioned in introducing a proposal for a law. I am sorry, of course, that the competent ministry has not been able to carry out its long-term care tasks, including personal assistance in a timely manner. Then the law could be adequately prepared and there would not be so much concern today about the current bill. It is true that in the field of the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the state is not entirely barefoot, since a general umbrella law was passed in 2010, the Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, and before that, individual sectoral laws were adopted. In anticipation of the above-mentioned amendments to the proposed law by the competent ministry, I will, at this initial stage, support the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act. However, the State and local communities and Members must continue to strive to create equal opportunities for all people, including people with disabilities, in all areas of life, and to enable them to be independent, independent and free choice and to participate equally in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u71	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get ready, mags. Matthew Tonin and Mrs Maria Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests on the balcony! I must say that we can be happy today, and we can say that today this is a happy December, because there is a promise of broad support for this bill, only a few marriages have such support. Therefore, allow me to thank the proposer at this point for the introduction of the bill on personal assistance. I think it is very important that we devote even more attention to this vulnerable group of people, including the disabled, than we have so far. Otherwise, it is not possible to overlook the fact that special attention is being paid to this group at all times, and this is followed by the ministry, which has been co-financed since 2009 by personal assistance programmes in the form of co-financing of personal assistants as part of an active policy, but it should be stressed that we still do not have a legal solution. In 2015, I will also be a special Assistant/Assistent programme; several draft laws were also prepared, including those from 2012, which were introduced by the People's Initiative into the legislative process, and unfortunately did not receive sufficient support on the labour market. We're still digging in, Mr. Tonin said it nicely. Since the beginning of my term of office, I must say that I have met this particular group of people, we are looking for solutions, they are proposing laws, many meetings have been held, many proposals have been made, and today I think it is really time for us to regulate this area. The law will at least slightly improve the situation of people with disabilities, who certainly deserve to live the best quality of life in their home environment despite their illness by means of this personal assistance. This will ensure that people with disabilities become self-conscious and autonomous, independent, and equally beneficial to our community, and the key is to ensure their dignity. All these facts, which I have mentioned, are already derived from the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and therefore persons with disabilities must enjoy dignity and equality and the guarantee of equal human rights and fundamental freedoms regardless of any personal situation. I am aware and I believe that personal assistance services are an indispensable means for the independent life of the disabled. It covers all areas of life and must also be tailored to the needs, desires and life - style of an individual. A personal assistant is helping the user in all those tasks and activities that he cannot carry out on his own and needs them to be able to live an independent active life at home and away from home and to be equally involved in our society. It is true, however, that the right to personal assistance is a complex right and therefore it is important to ensure and promote wider cooperation between different institutions, including non-governmental organisations. As my colleagues have already said before me, in recent days and weeks we have received e-mails, a series of sad confessions from individuals who would be pushed to the brink without personal assistance and their lives would be unworthy. Allow me to summarize one of these sad scriptures; it is only a fraction of what would happen to these people if they were without a personal assistant. I quote: “Without personal assistance, we are in an impossible situation. In a diaper full of our own secretions, we can only wait for one of the locals to save us. This is far from a man of worth and equal standing in society.” We can't afford this, so we need to fix this right away. Therefore, the area of personal assistance is the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons and their more independent lives, which we need to regulate. Of course, we must also address this through the unity of the long-term care system. The law must be life - sustaining, and the money must follow the individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u73	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Prepare Mrs Marija Bachič and Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u74	Dear Members and Members! Today we have a really nice opportunity to fix our moral debt. In my opening remarks, I have already said that all this time since 2012 I have felt a bad conscience in the sense that we have promised the citizens something, but we have not realized it. And it was always the same story, and the story was whether it wasn't enough money or whether the law wasn't harmonised between disability organizations. If we always wait for something to fall from the sky, of course it will not happen, we must act and at least we have acted. It is also fair to say that we have received encouragement, specifically Mrs Elena Pecarič, whom you all know very well, asked me on one occasion what is now with our promise. And there was no more room for one to say much or to look for reasons why we should not do something. And that's why this marriage is before you today. We do not claim that he is the best, that he is the only one to be saved, that we have never claimed to be the smartest and all we know, but he is the reality. We haven't had a law as coherent as this one. I believe that this law is supported by Mrs Elena Pecarič, who is the president of YHD, as well as by Mr Boris Šuštaršič, President of NSIOS. The lady and the gentleman had many different opinions, but it is great that they have at least one opinion on this law, and they both support the law. Like you, we have received numerous letters of support, especially by those who have personal assistance. But we must also be aware that there are a lot of people who don't even have those options to help those people who didn't write us at all. On the issue of shortcomings, I am trying very hard to hold back and have as constructive a debate as possible, but from the seat I was encouraged to listen to my stone colleague, Ambassador Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Will someone say again that I am politicising, but fellow Member, Desus has been in government coalitions since 2004, if our marriage is so flawed, why haven't you prepared a better law before? And I'm gonna make a dot here so I don't hurt anybody. But thank you very much Members Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Desus for supporting this law at first reading. I express serious gratitude without any cynicism or anything like that. About the letters in the basement. This law has supported a lot of disabled organisations, but we have received two letters that have had certain comments. One was from the Union of Civil Disabled Persons of the War of Slovenia. Their main comment is that the law is limited to a maximum of 65 years of age. And the Society of Deaf Blind Slovenia, the DLAN – they point out that a problem limit of 30 hours per week is personal assistance and similar things. Once again, I am sure that there is still much to be done to correct, and even in this area, things are being corrected, and I doubt that these two organisations, which have sent us a letter, have certain comments, such comments as to oppose this law, which I have not understood. How do we imagine this concept so that we can somehow systematically arrange for help to all citizens who need it because of such or other handicaps? This personal assistant is placed between the ages of 18 and 65, and it must be made very clear that under the existing law, that is, according to the law we propose, those who would have had personal assistance before the age of 65 may also retain her after the age of 65. But if we say that the Personal Assistance Act is intended for citizens between the ages of 18 and 65, of course, it is a legitimate question, but what about those who are under the age of 18 and what about those who are over the age of 65? For those over 65 years of age, we see above all that their situation would be governed by the long - awaited law on long - term care. For young people under 18 years of age, however, we expect much from the law drafted by Ambassador Jasna Murgel, namely the law on the treatment of children with special needs. In this way we could have a system-wide, systematic trio if you want: by the age of 18, the Jasna Murgel Act on the Treatment of Children with Special Needs, where all the options of parents would be collected in one place, for those between the ages of 18 and 65, the Personal Assistance Act and for those over 65 years of the Long-Term Care Act. In this way, at least we in New Slovenia imagine that we will systematically arrange these things, and I am worried. I have also warned some disabled organisations that today we will be able to rejoice and rejoice if this law is adopted at first reading, but let us not forget, it will only be decided that the law is suitable for further consideration, which means that until the final adoption, something else can be substantially changed. I hope that some of the forecasts of coalition MPs and MPs who said they would like to merge the Personal Assistance Act and the Long-Term Care Act together into one law – I do not see it that way – are a convenient excuse for the adoption of this law to be delayed somehow. Both mothers are demanding, and I see no reason why it is absolutely necessary and difficult for both mothers to be regulated in the same law. Without any problems, we can arrange them in separate laws. If the coalition has such a desire to settle these two areas together, I ask it to do something different. Let us first adopt this law on personal assistance, and then, if the coalition has a wish, it may, by the end of its term of office, think, do what it wants to, then maybe put the law on personal assistance and long-term care into one marriage. I don't have a problem with that. If that's what you want, give it to me, but let's get this personal assistance bill under the roof first. I believe that today this law will be passed without a vote against. I look forward to this and thank everyone once again for their support, for this December gift to all our citizens who need this help, with the hope that something dramatic or shocking will not happen in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I also welcome the proposal for a law on personal assistance, as it concerns the needs of the people who need it. These are, in particular, various disabled persons who need different forms of personal assistance and must also be actively involved in deciding for themselves how and where they will live and how and how much help they need. It is also true that in the 1990 ’ s personal assistants were introduced, and today they have more than a hundred people who should otherwise be in social institutions. In 2009, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities co-financed personal assistance programmes in the form of co-financing of personal assistance employment. Since 2015, it has co-financed these personal assistance programmes, which we have also received from the Alliance and through them in our societies. In recent years, some NGOs have also developed a personal assistance programme, involving 28 organisations involving thousands of people. However, this personal assistant is different in mind. One is intended for 12 hours and 24 hours of assistance, and in some cases it means only a few hours of support or a one-hour visit, monitoring into trade and society. Some organisations offer assistance only in the case of workshops, and if personal assistance involves only a few hours per week in the person with obstacles, whether younger or older, the person must, if he needs more assistance, still be in the institution. Your Honor! In recent times we have been talking a lot about deinstitutionalisation, it is said that people who need help would not live in large institutions and their units, but at home or in rented apartments or in residential groups within residential neighborhoods and in city cores. This will be a more friendly environment for them, and people will live a more free, friendly, and beautiful life with the help of an assistant. We are obliged to enable persons with disabilities to implement the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, such as the right to independent life, including personal assistance, the right to inclusive education and lifelong learning, and the highest possible individual mobility. When I was a personal assistant to a wheelchair who was totally dependent on foreign care and assistance, I realized the importance of personal assistance. So, already in the morning, when you get up, personal hygiene, clothing, you say, in all of life's basic activities. Imagine how this woman would live without a personal assistant. Her son goes to school, her husband goes to work, maybe puts her out of bed in the kitchen, say she could get some food, but the bathroom needs to be where that woman is not capable. And imagine in what condition this lady would find a man after work without personal assistance. A husband who is active in the ministry may also be burdened with worrying about his wife’s life in the morning alone. He can devote himself to his job because he knows that his wife is well cared for. You don't think she's just sitting around thinking, she's active, she's just sorting out what her employee's gonna look like. Helps, like, cut whole meat, personal assistants say what they're going to eat. She is active, free, socialized, entangled in life, smiling and even though she is on a wheelchair, unable to do so, she is a pleasant conversationalist and really a woman in place. So, it's not being eliminated from the environment, which is extremely important for these people. Because we know that if people are disfellowshipped, if they live a lonely life, alone with their problems, excluded from everything, they often become depressed. This woman is completely different. We therefore note that personal assistants are of great importance in balancing the opportunities of disabled people and their independent lives and their inclusion in society as a whole, so it needs to be systematically and quickly regulated. It is true, as Mr Tonin said before, that if we wait for long-term care, we know that personal assistance is somehow linked to long-term care. When I first got out, the lady in the wheelchair outside said to me: “Are we really going to wait for long-term care? What if it doesn't? We need personal assistance here and now." And you know what I said, because I have information that long-term care to the Government will be filed at the end of February and then maybe by the end of the year adopted, I promised her that if she didn't, the Personal Assistance Act would live on its own. Many letters, as you all say, have been received during the week or before, and many tragedies have also been written in these letters. Above all, those people who live in social institutions express what they experience, from diaper folding and so on. So that's all people want: a man worth living and an equal position in society. I think they deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u77	Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel and Mrs. Marinka Levičar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! They say that society’s progress is known for its relationship with its weakest members. Surely, those with special needs are those who deserve a special relationship, special attention, assistance, and above all want to be able to live as alone as possible. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members, Members, professional colleagues, the Head of our Committee of Experts in New Slovenia, who have prepared this law, and then I would like to thank the Government, who has decided to support this proposal, and also the parliamentary groups that have spoken in support of this law. It is important that we are connected by the problem of finally knowing who is a member of one or the other party, who is the proposer, who is the government, who is the opposition, and we are solving some pressing problem. In this sense, I am very happy and pleased that we can do this. In fact, I've spent most of my time working with people with special needs in a facility, now it's called a center where I've been teaching, so even now when I meet a person on a wheelchair, I look into the face, who it is, because I always ask myself if I know him or not; not out of curiosity, but because I'm happy to meet my former student or student somewhere, so I always look at who this person is. And because I have, I think, 18 years working in this institution, I've seen a lot of needs and also a lot of life stories related to disability, with these people. Of course, as long as these are children, youths, the way of life, the supply is somehow understandable, we too have lived in student homes or some kind of student home and it is understandable. But when a person grows up, it is certainly very important who is with that person from day to day, for it is also about his most intimate life and no matter who trusts his or her problems, his or her wishes, his or her needs. I also met the fates of not only persons, youths in wheelchairs, but also the stories of the entire family. Most parents — or almost every parent — know the exceptions of course — have worked hard, cared for their child or youth, but we also need to understand the parents, the families of these children, that each one of them has his own personal life, and that he cannot always be available, or that he must give up on many things. But to a large extent they have devoted themselves to their children, helped them as much as they can, but because we must also respect the lives of these people as individuals, it is right that the state provides assistance in the form of personal assistance. That is why I believe that this law is good, that it also has some drawbacks, but also that we have a hearing and then further consideration when we can address these shortcomings, finalize them, improve them and, above all, ensure that they enter into force in the future and that they can benefit from it. I therefore hope that the vote will not only be for the first reading, but also for the final adoption of this law and that this will also ensure greater security for all persons who need such personal assistance. It is good that we now have this funded through projects, but this is not a systemic solution, it also brings great uncertainty, and I think that if this issue is regulated by law, then for all it represents greater certainty and confidence in this country. I wish everyone a nice holiday.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dr Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare Mrs Marinka Levicar and Mr Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that again. I am one of those who has also been marked by disability in the family and who, because of this disability, is also fond of this subject, and this subject of disability and people with special needs is one important area of action for me. I must say that I personally like the fact that you have put the law into the procedure and that we will deal with it too often – the reasons are different, either there is one broader, more effective solution, or there is no agreement between the stakeholders and then we consider it, because you yourself have been sad at NSa, because this time you have not been able to accept – that it really takes too long for a solution to be adopted as one of such vulnerable groups as the one to which this law applies. Personally, I am very pleased that this is now in the parliamentary procedure. I think that we will support the law to the end, because we will somehow form it together in other treatments, and that in fact we will no longer have to wait for personal assistance in Slovenia to be regulated by law. Tonin also mentioned early treatment of children with special needs. Yes, I am also now aware of how – since we have also co-signed the proposal for a preliminary examination of this law – it is quite difficult to manage all interests, everything that needs to be arranged for one systemic solution to be adopted. So there were a lot of factors why we have not put the law under consideration so far in the parliamentary procedure, why we have not even allowed it through the first hearing. But I think now is really the time to adopt such a law, because we need it, we need it, we need it, we need those who need personal assistance, and I don't think there's time to wait for this solution anymore. What a final substantive solution will be, we will be talking mainly in the second reading of the law. It is important to also find out whether all services are now included or whether they may need to be extended to anyone else. When we talked to the coalition parties, we highlighted the problem with which I have my own personal experience again, for example in the Maribor Society for Cerebral Paralysis, with which I am very well involved, this is the need to help parents who have children who are very severely affected or otherwise obstructed. Those who take care of their children at home and do not have a break have, say, a partial compensation for lost income or are — well, after their child’s 18th year — family helpers. The question is how to help these parents. These parents need help because 24 hours a day, even if a child is involved in an educational institution, and is part of a day somewhere, it is very difficult because such a parent cannot go, I don’t know, to surgery if he gets sick, has no leave, there is nothing, even if he has that compensation. And there is also a need to look for some at least partial services that would be available to such parents. Whether this will be included here or not, or whether it will be in long-term care, we will talk. In short, there are a lot of things that still need to be arranged. And then this communication supplement; let's say in a conversation with representatives of organizations that represent blind and visually impaired, we found that there are going to be some problems. Whether we are going to give some monetary communication allowance, as is now called in this proposal, or whether we are going to say that we are going to devote some of our services to these beneficiaries, this is all a matter of debate. You also said that in your NSI Group you will also invite representatives of parents of blind and visually impaired children, so now we will have the opportunity to work together to create a solution that will involve as much as possible – as we know, more includes, more costs – to find the optimal solution to go to the disabled organisations, who have concerns and may still have them to go to them as much as possible and to actually get a personal assistance law once and for all. I must say, personally, it was no longer clear to me why we are all delaying this decision together and why we do not yet have it. So we'll talk about these things. I certainly support that it goes into first reading and is then finally accepted. For when we have an orderly long-term care – here, too, I personally engage and pressure myself, as much as it is in the power of the Member to pressure these matters to be settled as soon as possible, and now there is a movement to at least determine which ministry will be responsible for this – and this area moves and regulates, it can be done after the law on long-term care is regulated, and it can be linked to personal assistance. Maybe something is added, changed, these things can always be settled, bound up with a new long-term care law and linked things so that the circle of beneficiaries who need care that they cannot take care of themselves for different reasons, either older, disabled persons or whatever needs help to integrate into society or meet their basic needs, as wide as possible, to include them, regardless of whether they are children or full-year olds, in this system of social care that will enable them to actually equalize opportunities and integrate into society. So, from personal experience, I also understand the parents of such children, so I make sure that these interests are included, in what form and in what way, we will see this further. Once again, we support this and we will do everything we can to create a law that will provide the most possible means within this framework, so that the widest possible range of beneficiaries can be provided with personal assistance services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u81	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber. Excuse me, Mrs Iva Dimic, representative of the proposer, if you'll excuse me, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to all the debaters so far, including my colleague Jasni Murgel, who has expressed her support. True, let me say again from this town, and tomorrow we meet parents of deaf children. Finally, they also raised concerns and disagreements with the existing bill, in particular because of the communication supplement to replace the aid and service allowance. In fact, it's an open marriage, I stress once again, for an open marriage, and if we can talk and find solutions, it can all change. That's what we want, so we're agreed with them tomorrow morning. I would just like to tell you or read — we have received many letters — what touched me the most. One lady writes: “I would like to inform you that personal assistant means to us an autonomous and independent decision on your own life. In short, doing everything that is for unhededucated people, citizens and citizens, is self-evident. That personal assistance for us, disabled persons, is of vital importance, because it represents life to us in the fullest sense of the word, that is, a person worth living. Without personal assistance, the majority of users would be sentenced to stay in institutions that are today to a greater extent solely of the wetlands.« Sorry, there are a lot of these letters, I'm sure you've read them. Many people are really affected or have physical impairment also due to multiple sclerosis, which is increasingly common in Slovenia, it is increasingly recorded, if I may say, by patients who suffer from multiple sclerosis, and in fact everyone expresses support to allow them a personal assistant some normal, full life. Also, Mr., who is employed at the Institute of Joseph Stefan and has, although secondaryly progressive, the form of multiple sclerosis and is estimated at 100%, is, in fact, still active and still employed through the personal assistance of a personal assistant. I am sure that it can also do much to help our society, not least if he is employed at the Institute of Joseph Stefan, also for our science and economy, and I think that the real need calls for itself after the adoption of the Personal Assistance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u83	Mrs. Marinka Levičar, you have the floor. Prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings again to all present! I would first like to commend New Slovenia that they have even tabled this law, because I think that it is really necessary to end the fencing that has been in place so far, and therefore I do not think that these criticisms are necessary today at the expense of this law. It is important that the law goes into the legislative process, and in this process we will be able to remedy all the shortcomings and what is evident so far in this bill. So, I'm not going to be critical, but as I say, it seems very important that we start talking about this and make a law that is suitable for all handicapped people, even older people. In doing so, I would like to reiterate my dissatisfaction at the fact that so long a bear with a long - term care and care law has become a hot bone. Now I hear that the Ministry of Health will be the main carrier of this law, before it was the Ministry of Labour, I don't know why this transfer is going to happen, but again I think it will cause further delaying the final text that we will get in the parliamentary bench. I hope that's not true if I'm optimistic, but just a lot of times, it also leads me to pessimism. The law we are considering, the proposal for a law tabled by Nova Slovenija, has as many as 36 articles, so I would like to draw attention only to some of my views. I don't mean, as I said at the beginning, to be critical of certain things that I think a little differently than the law defines, because it will be time for us to coordinate. And let me add that I am pleased to hear what I have heard today in the presentation of the opinions of the groups in question, that we are all in favour of this law. That's why I really think he could be very good. It seems unacceptable to me what is happening now that young people must be in nursing homes, young people with disabilities who cannot live alone. This is really unacceptable that they are in homes for the elderly, which, unfortunately, are more and more for people just before the end of their lives, when they have no other option than to go to a home for older citizens. I therefore find that there is also a discriminatory provision in this current bill, which provides that personal assistance will be possible for persons under 65 years of age. Although you explained to me that this should then be regulated by the law on long-term care, yet I do not think that this law should have these limitations. No one wants to be in an elderly citizen's home, nor does an elderly disabled person. If he were provided with this assistant, he could continue to live in his home environment. However, it seems very positive to me that you are referring to who the providers of these services can be. So that these may be natural and legal persons, but who have to meet the conditions for personal assistance to be able to perform, and that they will also have to be included in the register of performers, so that no one from the lay public, who may be listening to our debate today, will think that anyone who wants to earn something else, some income that he does not have now, may be socially threatened, but would still earn something here. Not true, not all of these activities will be able to be carried out, they will have to be trained to do so and then entered into the register of activities, the register of persons who will carry out this activity. This also seems good for the disabled who will receive these activities. It also seems important to me that the person entitled to this assistance will be decided by the special expert commission at the social work centres and will be led by experts. So there is no dilemma, in my opinion, that there would not be any abuse in this area, only that the provisions I have pointed out would change sooner, and I hope that this will be done in the next stages of the implementation of this law. I was alone in the end, because I had not followed this law before, and I was surprised to see why the law would only be applied at 1. 1. 2019, but again because of those who listen to us in the media, it is right to point out that by the end of 2018 a concession for the management of current operators is being implemented and the concession for the management of the current operators expires, so there will be no gap in between. That's how I understood from the text of the law I was reading, and I hope I understood it correctly. At the end of the day, good luck to this marriage and mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u85	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Given that personal assistance is being funded projectly at the moment or during this period, it is, of course, necessary to cut down in this way and adopt a law that regulates this, as we like to mention in the National Assembly, a systematic way of funding. In fact, disability is not a project that lasts a year or two, but is actually a problem that an individual encounters, and only with extremely great personal will and assistance, both at home, at work and, of course, at a visit to either cultural, sports or other events, can overcome all these restrictions or even reduce disability itself due to active personal assistance. The financial implications described in this law, which are moving around around about €8 million, are also the amount that is certainly not the material that we would be talking about at all, in relation to the many restrictions that we have in the constitution that we must respect the fiscal rule. This is one of those cases where, however, the part of the Constitution that speaks of Slovenia as a social state prevails. And this solution, which is before us, is really one of those small important steps to improve living conditions in Slovenia, not least to allow for some new jobs that are certainly better, if we do not talk about again that this is the subject of an invitation to tender for the allocation of funds related to a project period, and then many times in the current practice that there were not enough funds or they were too late, I would say, paid off because they were such or different problems in the implementation of project funding. All of this, of course, has caused a great deal of problems both to the disabled and to those who have helped them in their daily tasks and, above all, the way of life that each individual wants to create. Just to allow each individual to really try to continue to create his way of life as much as possible, this law is extremely important, welcome and, of course, I will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u87	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacic and Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished guests, representatives of the government! This time of year, when Christmas is approaching, there must be a time when there is a kind of calming of stress, which is also present in Parliament throughout the year. I am sure that our souls are softening in some way at that time, and therefore I am glad that this is such a constructive debate on our proposal for a personal assistance law. During the time we were preparing the marriage, I was involved in a lot of brain damage. Brain damage is the first event that in the vast majority of cases does not occur because of any force majeure or appears as a celestial phenomenon. And something interesting is that brain medicine is a kind of pastoral medicine — and of course it is not a medical criticism — because the gap between the patient’s needs and medical ability is the greatest. Some say modern brain medicine has been dripping for 50 years for heart medicine. As we recall, the following year will be 50 years from the first successful transplantation of the human heart on December 3. In this place, I would like to express my gratitude and recognition to relatives who sacrifice their whole lives, their partnership, their careers and professions to take care of their neighbor 24 hours a day, turn him around at night for two hours, wake him up, worship him, massage him, comfort him, pray, do everything they know. These are big people. I am aware that the quality of life after brain damage is as important and valuable as human survival alone. I would like this truth to guide and be a drama to all of us who will decide on this law today and then at the second reading. I will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u89	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša and as the last Dr Mitja Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. What a lovely greeting to everyone in the hall! We have recently, I think, received by all Members a large number of requests, incentives and petitions, but let us listen and see the indisputable need for daily assistance to the disabled. The common denominator of all requests is, under the United Nations Convention on the Rights, as stressed, the importance of the independence of persons with disabilities and their independence as individuals, including freedom of choice. In 2010 we adopted the Act on the Equalization of the Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities, which means the practical application of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which in general affects all areas of social life, i.e. education, health, culture and quality of residence. I think that we should not give up efforts so that most people with disabilities can normally engage and work in regular businesses in adapted jobs and in completely new jobs for people with disabilities. The Law on Personal Assistance, endorsed by practice so far, and the Law on Long-Term Care would ultimately enable all to live in dignity, free to choose, where and with whom to live, to be involved in social events and to contribute to their potential and through assistance. The tabled content of the law, which was created in the past governments, commended Nova Slovenije for having been proposed for consideration. In the DeSUS Group, we are pleased to be able to explain together clearly who, what, and why an individual needs to be assisted in the form of assistance in order to be able to live alone and, above all, to live a quality life. Despite the fact that personal assistance runs through various programs and invitations, we estimate that there is too little — and not enough — financially. The criteria for obtaining personal assistance must also extend to those with disabilities who will never be independent, and their parents, who now provide them, are old or powerless. The years of entry for the right to receive personal assistance must also be discussed, for example, at 18 years of age more difficult and difficult to deal with in mental and physical development and those who are at an age when they are no longer able to live alone, but have the opportunity to live at home with the help of a personal assistant in part or with the full assistance of a personal assistant. Of course, I support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u91	As we find that we no longer have any reported debaters, we are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will get the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposalr. I give the floor to Mrs Martini Vuk, Secretary of State. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. But I think it's best if I tell you a sermon or two to finish. It was interesting to listen to all this debate today, and perhaps now it could list the entire history of the creation of such or other forms of personal assistance law or at least a solution, even if it were contained in another law. But I don't think that's really necessary. I would take this opportunity, however, to congratulate all activists and activists – and I mean this in an extremely positive word – on the courage and persistence of NGOs with disabilities. But since it's a long battle, we can call it that. I think it was very nice to hear today that all the parliamentary groups, at least that's how I understood, will be supported by this bill tomorrow at the vote. So that the Personal Assistance Act will be unanimously confirmed at first reading. I think it gives him an extremely good journey for further consideration. By the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we can make a promise that we will be extremely actively involved in the preparation of the amendments, in coordination, in order to address certain matters that are still open or possibly unclear, so that the law can be enforceable in the future. And I won't go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u93	Ms Iva Dimic, representative of the proposer, also has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Since this is the final part, I still wanted to share with you what it will mean to adopt this law, not least for a little younger. I have to read it because it touched me too deeply. Lady, among other things, in all these letters, which you have probably all read — including me — says that she has been under stress in childhood for staying out of her home and away from her parents. She had to study in Vipava and Kamnik and lived there, and yet, through the possibility of a society that also offers personal assistance, she was able to stay in her home, near her parents, but alone. This is what all disabled people want; to live alone, close to their loved ones and to take care of their lives in some way, and to take responsibility. That is why today I would like to thank everyone who has expressed your support for this place, including the ministry, which, as she said, is willing to cooperate. Of course, in the New Slovenia Group we also count on your support in preparing the relevant amendments. I also thank all those who have responded through letters, telephone calls, messages, in short, all those who have actually co-formed the law that we are going to adopt in the National Assembly with the support of all Members and Members and all political parties. It is also crucial that we are united at such an important level. Of course, it is the duty of all of us to draw up a law that will help the most vulnerable in this country and that we will do so in the future. Thank you all very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u95	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, 20. 12. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of public funds rights after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 6 Members and Members with the first signed by Violeto Tomić. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Luke Mescu.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In opening, I would like to say that I am extremely pleased that after more than a year and a half of our efforts to ensure that all children living below the poverty threshold in this country receive free lunches, we have now reached consensus in the National Assembly that this needs to be regulated. I hope that we have also reached a consensus that poverty must be addressed systematically in general. This country has never been richer, and Slovenia's GDP has never been bigger, but at the same time the social situation of the people from year to year has deteriorated. Probably in the last 1970s, there have never been as many people under the risk of poverty as there are alive, unfortunately, at the end of 2016. We know the reasons for this. The reasons for this are the growing inequality, the developmental stagnation of society, the misdistribution of money and wages. We have seen in this year and in the previous year that the government has paid the best three times, but at the same time there are always only excuses for the poorest, for those on the social side, for those who break through from month to month with social assistance or with minimum wage and so on. I hope that by consensus that all children in developed society must receive at least one warm meal a day and that there must be absolutely no exceptions and no excuses, we have also taken the first step towards ensuring that all people in this country have a decent life, so that no one should live below the risk of poverty. In the United Left, we will continue our efforts in this direction in the following year. However, I hope that we will be able to convince Members of Parliament and Members that, as we have joined together for poor children, we will come together for all the poor people in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u97	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mrs Marija Bacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All hail again! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 33rd session. 11. 2016 as the working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, first signed by Violet Tomić, with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of the draft law following a reduced procedure. The Committee re-examined the proposal for a law since the National Assembly at its 23rd meeting did not adopt a decision of the Committee adopted at its 29th meeting that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. A representative of the applicants, representatives of the Government, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, a representative of the Commission of the State Social Protection Council, health care and disabled persons and representatives of the public concerned participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made specific comments. At the meeting of the Committee, their representative pointed out that the question was raised as to what conditions would be for obtaining the right to a subsidy during the period during which the old conditions had expired and during the time when the new conditions had not yet been applied. At its 29th meeting, the Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supported the proposed amendments. The representative of the proposers briefly presented the draft law. The debate on Article 1 of the bill, which extended the range of beneficiaries to free school lunches, highlighted the position of the Modern Centre Party Group to support the proposal, but such issues need to be addressed systematically within the framework of social policy. All the debaters agreed that it was necessary to make sure that children were not only hungry at school but also during weekends, which, of course, cannot solve this law. The discussion below highlighted the problem of poor workers, who are also very attractive. The debate also pointed out that even 15% of those children eligible for a 100 % school lunch subsidy did not benefit them. The stigmatisation of poverty is unfortunately very large, but with social transfers and minimum wage, it is impossible to survive. Information should also be provided to parents or beneficiaries of subsidies. The representative of the applicant proposed not to accept the amendment of Article 2 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups as he considered it appropriate to notify the beneficiaries of the subsidy of the entitlement to 100 % of the subsidy and of the procedures for its application. It took the view that specific information by the Centre for Social Work is not necessary in the case of pupils who are already entitled to a lunch subsidy in accordance with the legislation in force and it is not possible to inform potential beneficiaries by the centres. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has ensured that circulars will be sent to social work centres, NGOs will also be involved in the communication, so that they will be informed of the widest possible range of beneficiaries and, of course, the media can also help with much information. After the discussion, the Committee adopted an amendment to Article 2 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, but did not adopt the amendment of the Joint Left to Article 3. The amended bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u99	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities as Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A nice greeting from the Ambassador and the Members, once again! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted its opinion on the proposal for the Act under consideration at its 102nd meeting in September 2016. In this opinion, the Government advocated the need to evaluate and properly regulate the current school diet system governed by the School Diet Act in relation to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. Analysis and upgrading of school nutrition would be necessary both from a social and a health perspective and from the point of view of school education and nutrition organisation. In its opinion, the government also stressed that student subsidies increased by more than 4 or 20 million euros between 2008 and 2016. The latest data on the number of lunches applied for at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport are from the beginning of October this year, i.e. from this school year, and these data indicate that around 85% of the beneficiaries have been registered for lunch in the first income class. These are the ones who already have lunch for free after the current arrangement. In the second and third income classes around 80%, these are those who now have a subsidised school lunch. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport thus warns that we still have somewhere between 15% and 20% of those eligible for lunch subsidies and do not benefit from these subsidies. With regard to the way in which school food subsidies are implemented, we would like to point out that social work centres do not keep specific records of who are eligible for school meals. Since 1 January 2015, automaticism has been in effect when parents see whether they are entitled to a school meal subsidy or not and it is automatically taken into account when issuing a bill. With the introduction of automation, we have eased the decision-making of the social work centre with a special decision, and we have burdened our parents with the investment of specific applications. However, the Ministry undertakes at this point to notify, when this proposal is implemented, all centres for social work and also non-governmental organisations on the modification of the subsidy for lunches, and at the beginning of the following year, the amended decisions on the child supplement will also be amended in such a way as to make it clear that the right to a subsidy or free lunch in primary school belongs to all of the first three classes of the children's allowance and that the free meal belongs to all of the 1st to 5th grade children's allowance. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will ensure that all primary schools are informed of the change and that further activities are carried out so that all those who belong to them for free lunch or lunch can benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u101	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u102	Dear President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State and other Members! Today we are again considering a proposal for a law that alleviates the social distress of less wealthy families. It is for children, for the most vulnerable among us, who should be provided with free lunch in primary school. With the satisfaction of the Desus Group that today we will be able to resolve the issue of subsidisation of lunches in primary school for the benefit of children and thus in the most fair way, it is impossible to overlook the fact that the ruling should also be significantly more sensitive in the past to the social needs of our population. In the course of the financial crisis, which continued in the economic crisis, and with measures or insufficient measures taken by governments to deepen the social crisis, the laws adopted, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, the Law on Social Security Benefits, and in particular the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, have the most affected the less wealthy, poor and vulnerable people of Slovenia, even children. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that Slovenia has successfully overcome the financial and economic crisis, but we stress that the social situation has not changed significantly since the poor and socially excluded in small and relatively wealthy Slovenia are still far too strong. Among them are many children and older ones who are unable to earn their own income by doing their own work. Although the average rate of risk of poverty has declined, the rate of poverty in elderly single persons has increased. We cannot be satisfied with the social situation, as steps have not yet been taken to allow decent life for all our citizens and citizens. It is therefore right for the Desus Group to also publicly point out in this law that we want and expect the provisions of our Constitution, under which Slovenia is a social state, to be fully implemented in practice at least in 2017. With regard to this same topic, last year we have found a solution to the application, which, as of this January, we have provided the possibility of partial subsidising lunches to pupils in primary schools even for those from the second and third income classes. The Desus Group did not consider it acceptable that children of socially disadvantaged families, who also belong in the second and third income classes, should wait for different, even more sophisticated, solutions from the competent ministry to arrange free lunches for children from socially disadvantaged families. That is why today we are releasing free access to school meals, more specifically to a hot meal or lunch, at 20,000 for an additional 35,000 children from families living on the social side. We warmly welcome this in the Desus Group. However, we are concerned about the fact that those parents who have already had the opportunity to use state subsidies for their children's school meals have not been able to do so. In particular, schools and social work centres bear the highest responsibility to ensure that parents are properly and adequately informed that all children from socially disadvantaged families in schools will receive free lunches. If anyone is in distress and unable to pay for even the most basic goods, schools, or all individuals and society as a whole, the state, the local community, humanitarian organizations are called to help people in distress. No one, whether the cause of economic nature, education, nationality, health or any other, should be detected, condemned, deprived in a modern, civilized and open society of the 21st century. Support for this law is therefore not questionable for Members of Parliament and Members of Desus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u103	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u104	Hello again, everyone! We're happy to have a marriage on the table that I believe will receive unified support. Recognizing that poverty is deepening and that hungry children among us are a fact that cannot be denied, rejecting such proposals is particularly difficult but even more incomprehensible. Whenever we have such sensitive matter on the table, it is actually very difficult to understand and even harder to defend that there is no money. That is why, once again, I am really glad that we have found this money, that we have managed to recognize the wider interest in one way or another, and that, at the beginning of next year, a wide range of children will be eligible for free, warm meals in school. By approving the proposal for this novel, the solution is being put in place for all students in the 1st, 2nd and 3rd grades, all of whom do not have an average monthly income per person exceeding 36% of the net average wage in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. around EUR 366 per person. Parents already do not have to submit applications for lunch and lunch subsidies, but the child must be declared for lunch and lunch. Since we believe that some of these cases, when parents simply do not know that the child is entitled to this right, the Ministry of Labour will therefore also clearly and visibly write down information for parents on the eligibility of full subsidies for lunches for all future new decisions on eligibility to the child supplement. We will support the proposal of the law, but we will not support the amendments of the Joint Left Group, because we believe that the first to talk about information is unnecessary, since, as has already been said, the Ministry will refer this information to the Children's Supplement Decision and we have the assurance of all the participants that they will make an effort and also through informal communication channels to inform parents of the eligibility for a subsidised meal. With regard to the entry into force on 1 January, it has also been repeatedly said that this will be very difficult, since we are bound to certain hands and also to the fact that those who will be implementing the law need time to prepare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u105	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u106	Dear President, distinguished secretary, colleague and colleague! What we do in life counts, not what we intend to do. These are the words of Milan Jakopovic, co-founder of the Charity Society Petka for a smile. The societies in which the driven and the hearts of the people want to achieve two very simple things. Their first goal is to help as many people as possible who cannot help themselves. Realizing that they could not help everyone, they decided to help their children. There are 54,000 poor children living among us. These children feel on their own every day that school is not really free and that the country does not provide equal opportunities for everyone. Helping children whose poor youth is very likely to mean marginalization and inability to get a quality education and break through the vicious cycle of poverty. Their second objective is to achieve changes that will make all their humanitarian activities unnecessary. They do not want the future and life of children to depend on humanitarianism. They absolutely don't want that. From collecting enough voluntary contributions each month to cover the bills already issued, they do not want to see again each month that money is not enough for all who need help. However, they want Slovenia to become a social state again, as enshrined in Article 2 of the Constitution. They want the State to provide assistance and social security in their place. Together with Friday for smiles, we have fought for the last two years and we are here today, at a point where we are only 24 hours away from the adoption of a law that will provide all children from poor families with free school lunch. The path we went through was not easy. We have encountered obstacles and contradictions on it, which are completely incomprehensible to everyone but Slovenian politicians. At the same time, as we have heard from the authorities, the money for poor children has not been donated to 10% of the richest. We have also heard that helping all poor children is equally socially unfair. In the end, we convinced you to support the basic solution to the law. But unfortunately you didn't have a hearing for two important things that remain unresolved, and we can save them if you support the amendments of the United Left. Our first proposal is that the law enters into force as early as 1 January 2017, because we have been stalling for too long and we see no reason why the law would not enter into force as soon as possible. However, the second proposal concerns sending notice to all beneficiaries that their children can have free school lunch from now on. At the Committee's hearing, the Secretary of State admitted that this could be technically done. We are aware that some effort and technical knowledge will be needed to gather these data; but this effort is necessary. So in these 24 hours, we have the opportunity to do something else good. Just listen to the arguments again, you have to listen to the arguments and give your vote "for". Finally, let me go back to Friday for the smile we started this story with. The principles under which this organization and its people operate are very simple and we also take them for our own in the United Left: to help people directly in distress where we can do so, and to change the system so that as a society we will systematically take care of all those who need help. The adoption of this law must be an incentive and a sign that things can be changed. Not only can we change things, we have to change them. Slovenia must become a society in which it will not be hungry and in which everyone will be able to develop. The United Left will do anything to make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u107	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u108	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Thank God, you could say that the coalition has reconsidered the possibility of full subsidies for school lunches for children from families belonging to the 2nd and 3rd income classes for the children's allowance. The bill, which has already been rewritten, has returned to the hearing and is now again in the making of decisions. Sadly, we missed the opportunity to make life easier for these children and families at least a little by the beginning of this school year. Members of New Slovenia are aware that these responsibilities should not be pursued in such a way, and we point out such ways of enacting laws. Umar in the economic mirror recently states that the level of risk of poverty in Slovenia has decreased slightly, but is still higher than before the crisis. The level of risk of poverty has been reduced by self-employed, unemployed, inactive and fixed-term employees. Compared to the previous year, the level of risk of poverty has deteriorated in total workers for an indefinite period of time, i.e. those for shorter and full-time workers. According to education, the risk of poverty has increased most to those with tertiary education. The level of risk of poverty among employees has never been higher. Compared to the previous year, the risk of poverty has also increased for some of the most vulnerable groups of the population, such as unemployed persons, single-member women, single-parent households and single-parent households. With this data, we face the Ministry of Labour over and over again, which clearly does not understand; the solutions proposed by representatives of the Social Democrats obviously do not work; poverty is only spreading to the circle of people working and deepening. According to data from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the envisaged funds for school lunch subsidies were not used and the available funds would be sufficient to subsidise lunches not only for children from 1st and 3rd grades. In Slovenia, a subsidy of full value for lunch today belongs only to pupils who are regularly trained, are registered for lunch and where the average monthly income per person does not exceed 18% of the net average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, this means less than €180 per family member per month. This time, the proposal is once again proposed to raise this threshold to 36%. According to their proposal, all children of families with income of up to €360 per family member per month will be entitled to a full-value state subsidy. The bill is such that it is virtually impossible to oppose. This is why we also contributed signatures to the Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in Novi Slovenija, allowing full subsidies to all socially disadvantaged children from the beginning of this year's school year. But the left-handed and socially sensitive government then blocked that possibility. It is unacceptable that we have hungry children in Slovenia. And even more worrying is the fact that there are more and more of them. It is right that we talk about it, and it is right that we all feel bad about it. Members of New Slovenia will once again support the proposed law and both amendments to the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u109	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you. Hello, everyone! We are pleased that we will be able to provide free lunches for all children in the lowest three income classes here and now, if not in the second attempt. This is one of the necessary measures to reduce poverty among children, and let us stress that free lunches in poverty eradication are only a partial measure to mitigate the consequences of poverty. Let me remind you that the Law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which we have tabled together with my colleague Luka Mesec, was adopted in June 2015 and entered into force on 1 January 2016. The amendment of the law increased the price for free school lunch at that time by allowing children in the 2nd and 3rd grades to benefit from partial subsidies. The basic proposal for the 2015 novel envisaged a 100 % subsidisation of the school lunch for all children living below the statistical threshold of poverty. With the amendment of the coalition, the final draft law for children in the 2nd Income Class set out 70 % subsidisation for children and 40 % subsidisation for children in the 3rd Income Class. We know that, in order to implement the final proposal of the law providing for partial subsidisation, the competent ministry has provided EUR 8 million of additional funds, totalling EUR 16 million. The data from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport show that the planned funds were not spent and that the available funds are sufficient for 100 % subsidisation of lunches not only for children from 1st, but also for children from 2st and 3rd grades. The fact is that funds of €8 million to subsidise lunches have been provided from the start in the 2016 and 2017 budgets. I also propose to the government that in the future all children, irrespective of the income class, should be allowed 100 % of the subsidisation of lunches. In our firm belief, this would be most consistent with the concept of free primary school. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the proposal for a law. However, we will not support the amendments, as we believe that special information from social work centres is not necessary in the case of pupils who are already entitled to a lunch subsidy under the current legislation. This would in practice mean that primary school social work centres should obtain lists of all beneficiaries on the basis of which they would issue an appropriate decision in accordance with the applicable legislation to the beneficiary. The latter would further extend the administrative procedures already too long. However, we appeal to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to ensure timely access to information in a way that all beneficiaries will be informed of the possibility of subsidising lunches in a timely manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u111	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mrs Erika Dekleva.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u112	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! With the re-examination of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, with which we will allow more children a free lunch, we can only confirm the decision already taken on the home committee. In today’s darkness, it is difficult to say anything new; anything that has not already been said or recorded in the media, as well as in the meeting rooms of this diabolical assembly. When it comes to such sensitive and serious issues, there must be content at the forefront; there must be no competition for the current better impression in the public. We therefore reiterate that Slovenia is a social state; this must be maintained, especially in the care of the most vulnerable. The pressures of people, especially children, need to be addressed where they come from, and this is in the family. School lunch subsidies are an important social policy measure, which encounters educational policy in schools. Schools do their best to ensure that the children in their care are adequately provided. However, schools should not be able to function as a family; families should be able to allocate funds to them or to which they are entitled because of their socio-material situation, so that they do not have to be asked again and again for lunches, transports, books, school trips and so on. And thus preserve the role of responsible adults and the dignity of the whole family. Today we have an arrangement that allows children in the 1st income class to have a free school lunch, children in the 2nd income class a 70% subsidy and children in the 3rd income class a 40% subsidy on the price of school lunch. With the new school year, which is from September onwards, there has been an increase in the number of registered pupils per lunch from the 2nd and 3rd income classes by 10% compared to the average of the first half of this year. Despite the fact that lunches in these two income classes are currently only partially subsidised, there is an increase in the number of children registered for school lunches. Today, when we allow a free lunch for a wider range of beneficiaries, we expect that the percentage of school lunches applied for in the first three income classes will be even closer to 100%. The decision whether parents apply for a free or currently partially co-financed school lunch should not depend on stigma or poverty. We will support the bill in the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u113	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u114	Before I present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, let me say that I would like elections to be every six months in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, because in this case we would do much more good for our people, for our citizens and for our citizens and for our taxpayers. The law that we are now adopting and the law that is next is the result of this because there is great pressure before the elections on the government coalition and the government. And if the elections were every six months, this government and coalition would really work in the interest of the Slovenian people. Now we are going to the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been advocating for ten years for all children to receive free warm meals at school. By the time of the government of Janez Janša in 2004-2008, we had adopted a solution to allow all children a free hot meal in school. We are pleased that the coalition has also learned that there is currently no public financial reason for not allowing at least those children living below the poverty line a free hot meal. This is already the second case when the coalition, due to opposition pressure, realized that their approach to social policy was wrong. The first case was the abolition of the admission of a mortgage for the recovery of monetary aid and a security allowance, which the coalition accepted at least partially after the rejection of the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal twice, which would have completely abolished the already obsolete Institute for the Return of Social Transfers in 1976. As far as the concrete proposal is concerned, we are convinced that only a full and healthy child can fully devote himself to learning and acquiring the knowledge that he will need in order to gain his independence and his own way of life. We therefore supported the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which would allow a 100 % subsidy to school lunch for all children living below the poverty threshold according to the methodology of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The poverty threshold currently stands at €596 per household member. Despite the great words of Prime Minister Mir Cerar and Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anje Kopač Mrak to improve the situation in Slovenia, we can unfortunately monitor the statistics cited by the Research Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection entitled Poverty and Social Exclusion of Families with Children: Material and Intangible Face of Poverty; from February 2016, which notes that this is not yet the case and that poverty in Slovenia is increasing. The government also secretly recognises this as it increases social security expenditure in the budget. We do not know why the coalition composed of the Modern Centre Party, Desus and the Social Democrats, which is declared a socially sensitive party, did not support the law at the beginning of this proposal and even proposed a procedural decision that this law is not suitable for further consideration. This shows the inadmissible duality of this coalition and the government of Mir Cerar, who repeatedly speaks one thing over and over again and does another. It is good that they have changed their minds in this case, but we have lost quite a few months to allow for the full subsidisation of a warm meal for all children living below the poverty line. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we really hope and expect that Slovenian voters and voters will never again fall for new faces and, above all, not the politicians of the parties who promise much before the elections; they make few fights. But what they do, they do with an unnecessary delay.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u115	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. First of all, he has the floor on behalf of the proposaler, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thanks again for saying that. I would like once again to thank all the parliamentary groups that after a year and a half of our proposal you have supported and that now children from poor families will receive warm meals in schools as soon as possible. In all our views, we agreed that it was unacceptable to tolerate any kind of poverty, or hunger, among children in our country. In this place, I thank you once again for your support and I hope that this is also a beautiful journey in the new year. However, I would like to present our two amendments, which we have proposed, on the occasion of the debate. We've suggested two things. One is that the law would enter into force on 1 January; the other is that within 30 days of the entry into force of the law, the Ministry would inform all beneficiaries of the possibility of access to this subsidy. Now, I'm going to give both of you a brief explanation. Why do we want the matter to come into force on 1 January? The reason is simple. The reason is that we have been working for a year and a half to ensure that all children from poor families get free lunches, and we want this to happen as soon as possible. That is why we set ourselves first for this to happen on 1 September 2015, then on 1 January 2016, then on 1 September 2016 and now on 1 January 2017. Our hands are moving away from us all the time, and we would like to say that this time we really do say that on January 1, 2017, the date by which the regulation, with which all poor children get free hot lunch, will finally enter into force. That's the first and main reason we're selling this. This gives rise to technical reservations, which we have also heard in some positions, which means that if the issue comes into force on 1 January, schools will have technical problems, the real problem of ensuring this right. And here I would answer with the words of one of the principals who also made a public statement during the public debate on these lunches. He said: "Some schools may have problems with the technical guarantee of this right; but if this happens at our school, we will be happy to handle it." The principals and school managements will also be happy to have the opportunity to provide free lunch for all children in their schools. Here we are not afraid that anyone will resist solving this; rather, as the principal said, schools will be happy to be able to do so. Another issue that we are removing with this amendment is the reservation of the Legislative and Legal Service, which points out that, following the current regulation, it is formally unclear what regulation will apply between the end of the old regime and the start of the new regime. If we leave things defined as currently recorded without a rough date, then it is not clear what arrangements will apply in the meantime. And that is why, in a formal legal sense, it is good to fix and set this date on January 1st. In doing so, we will settle the matter as soon as possible and at the same time, with the other amendment, we will require the Ministry to inform all beneficiaries, all parents who have school-bound children and who meet these criteria of poverty that their children are entitled to free lunches. Why do we propose that the Ministry inform all beneficiaries? Simply because there has been a problem of non-information in the current regime. A lot of parents, even those in the 1st grade, who have 180 euros in income per family member or less, have not registered their children in the system. We also suspect from the ground such information is coming that in certain cases this has occurred because of the lack of information. We therefore propose to inform parents and to ensure that everyone receives very clear information from schools, by social work centres, so that they can register their children for free lunch. The Ministry answers that there is no need for this because we have a mechanism, it is said that as soon as the parent registers his or her child in the school lunch system and gets the ticket, he or she finds out whether the child is entitled to a subsidy or not. This does not seem so good to us because parents simply do not hope to report the child if they do not know whether they are or are not entitled to the subsidy. Therefore, we suggest that parents be informed in advance whether the child is entitled to a subsidy or not; and not only after that, it is said after receiving the ticket. The Ministry also has technical reservations here that the matter should be difficult to implement, but after all it is here that it is necessary to engage the competent institutions to send letters to the beneficiaries informing them that they are justified; and that is all. This is, in fact, at least in my opinion, a relatively simple technical task that the ministry must put on its shoulders; otherwise, we can imagine that it does not take matters seriously. I will say so much about the beginning; our two amendments are that the case will be implemented on 1 January and that all beneficiaries will be informed of the subsidy within 30 days of its entry into force. At the same time, in general, I thank everyone once again for their support for this measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u117	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I, too, thank the Members who have recognized the need for this arrangement, because we like to say many times that children are our greatest wealth. It is rare, though, to think about what it is like to grow up in a deprived environment, to be different at first glance, to be dressed differently, if you can’t afford a cell phone, a computer, or other things, or a school lunch. The poverty we tolerate around us is immoral. After all, poverty is also unconstitutional, as the Slovenian Constitution states that Slovenia is a social state. Poverty among children, hungry children are a disgrace, a disgrace to a society in the 21st century in the middle of Europe. And why did we propose an amendment to enter into force as from 1 January 2017? Because this disgrace must be removed as soon as possible. As soon as possible; to forget that we were ever a society that allowed itself to have hungry children in its midst. Literacy among citizens is something that has brought us capitalism and this great neoliberalism, this terrible difference. When I was growing up, it was like every single one of us, no matter what environment he was from, could finish college; not to say if you were good enough to know that you'd live better every day. Today our children do not have this optimism. It is true, as some of us have observed, that we drove a couple — even if we went to Italy for washing powder or coffee; but we lived up to our capabilities. No one else has had so much more to suffer if you are hungry or if you are getting fat or driving in some kind of car or yacht. Humanitarian organizations have a lot of work to do — from Friday for a smile, Siti words, Santa for a day, Santa. I can't imagine what it's like if the kid doesn't know if Santa's gonna bring him anything or not. Because he believes in Santa Claus, he expects to get a package, even though he's modester than he wanted. And this is where we help through humanitarian societies. And it's a terrible stigma that somehow sticks to your young developing soul and never gets rid of it in your life. Many parents are unemployed, not by their own fault. Even more tragic than that is the fact that parents are unemployed because they were made by various tycoons — who bought cheap factories that had worked well before, and who were built by the workers themselves by their work — were thrown onto the road. Even more tragic is that full - time parents, where both parents work, cannot pay for school meals for their children and that such families still live below the poverty threshold. Our other amendment says, let's send them a notice. This is not such a great effort for civil servants and for the jobs they do; but one great gift to the poor, who for a long time, not for their own fault, suffer this inequality. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like you to support January 1, 2017, because this would be the most beautiful New Year's gift – Santa would bring all hungry children a free hot meal a day. I think it's huge that this is a very nice gift that we can afford, because we've been talking about it for a year and a half. This could have been adopted a year and a half ago. Let's fix this shame. Now's the best time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u119	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! I have to be honest when I'm listening to all this stuff today, and I don't know what kind of betrayal I have in my throat and a lump in my stomach. Why? Luka already said nicely that we had this in the process already in June 2015, that the original purpose was September 2015. Now we're obviously going to be arguing over the amendment whether this is supposed to be effective with 1. 1. 2017. I will say this, the poor and hungry man is a disgrace anywhere, not just in Europe. I'll also say this, it's not a gift, it's our duty to deal with it. The school is in the system in which we live, increasingly the space of frustration, stigma, some colleagues have also experienced this with those backpacks that are too heavy. The textbooks — whether they are necessary or expensive; they are expensive — are too expensive. I think these are the subjects we're going to have to open. We have talked about poverty in Slovenia so many times that we do not seem to mention all these statistics again. It has been heard several times in debates and arguments that the school cannot solve all the pressures, all the problems; I agree with that. However, I do not agree with the easy statement that the pressures of children do not come from school but originate from the family. Many hardships do reflect and happen within the family not only when we discuss these issues, but also when we talk about domestic violence; these pressures, in fact, stem from the violence of the system. From the violence of the system in which we live, and if you want, from the violence of the system that we give the legal framework in our branch of power, from the violence of the system in which we are delegating certain people, and from the mandatory tasks of the National Assembly, so that I do not repeat them. I hope that tomorrow we will finally celebrate this, including our amendments. And I hope that in this kind of area of poverty, of this kind of area, unfortunately, the fire-fighting measures that we must take because of the enormous mistakes that this society and the country have had, I hope, soon from the beginning of independence and for which they are guilty, I can honestly say that all governments, at least this century, will no longer need to be made a fool of people to make a fool out of what many like to call the House of Democracy. The timing of the adoption of this proposal, the dynamics, the flossules and the populism of the debates and the non-stop postponement of when this will come into force, I can say that we are all in shame, even though in the United Left we have tried to make these disgraces as little as possible. I hope that we will no longer see and listen to such disgraces in this mandate or in future mandates. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u121	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss this. No, no, no. I then conclude the debate on this Article and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Not at all. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow, 20, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 12. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. This is on the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Social Security Benefits, following a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! I am pleased to present today a proposal for amendments to the Law on Social Security Benefits; and I hope that tomorrow, as part of the vote, it will be confirmed. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has prepared a proposal for amendments to the Social Security Benefits Act. The key novelty is to abolish the institute of registering the prohibition of the disposal and burden of property owned by beneficiaries of financial social assistance and a protective allowance. However, to all those who are currently registered, the official duty will also be deleted. In the new light, applicants who own property up to €120,000 after Gurs' evaluation will be eligible for cash social assistance and a security allowance. It's a Gurs evaluation, not a market value. Applicants or their legitimate heirs who have property value up to this value will also no longer have to be reimbursed for the cash social assistance received and the security allowance received. With this proposal, which represents a major change not only in the marking, but in particular in the institution of return, which we have in our country since the 1976 Heritage Act, we want to eliminate the reason why most people, especially older ones, who are also the largest owners of real estate, have not so far decided primarily on a protective allowance. Many older ones live on the threshold of poverty, some even below the threshold; also because they have not exercised all their rights. The protection allowance was not requested out of fear as the beneficiaries of the protection allowance were subject to a property registration. But property means a lot to the Slovenians. Therefore, parents or relatives would not deprive their children or heirs of a share of their inheritance, but rather deprive them of themselves, even though the money would make it a little easier for them daily. In our ministry, we are aware of this problem as well as of the problem of poverty among the elderly. Not only do the stories we hear on the ground show that poverty in Slovenia is declining, but unfortunately this does not apply to the category of older people. We can only help this population with greater accessibility to social transfers and eliminate the cause of fear, the reason why they do not or do not want to apply for a protective supplement. Property records will be deleted for all those who do not have sufficient resources to support themselves and whose dwelling or house they live in does not exceed EUR 120 000. About that amount is the average value of dwellings and dwellings in Slovenia. When the markings are unloaded, people will also be able to make it easier to dispose of their property, easier to exchange, and also easier to sell real estate. In Slovenia we have a very large share of ownership apartments and houses, because 85% of property is owned, which is high above the average of the European Union. I am therefore particularly pleased that today the National Assembly has addressed our proposed changes, which will ensure that those who need funds have a fairer limitation on inheritance and the marking of property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u123	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Mr Uroš Pikl, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, ministerial team! At its 45th emergency meeting on 1 December this year, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits, submitted by the Government to the Assembly, with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of the draft law following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner and our committee therefore considered the law on the basis of Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The urgent meeting of the Committee was convened on the basis of a request from the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Representatives of the proposer and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made some concrete comments to individual articles. The Committee has also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposed measures. The Commission debate raised the question of the adequacy of the level of the asset price set at the limit of €120,000. In particular, in those regions where housing prices are on average higher, a certain amount of censorship could still discourage potential recipients of the protection allowance from applying for it, so they called on the proposer to reconsider the appropriateness of the level of the said price. There were also concerns about who would actually benefit from the proposed legal provisions — or potential recipients or their heirs. A representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, briefly presented a proposal for a law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they agreed with the amendments tabled on the basis of their opinion; however, with regard to the issue of information technology and possible errors, they were given the answer that they could not make mistakes. In the debate, most discussers supported the proposed amendments to the law and some felt that the return of the protective allowance and social assistance should be fully eliminated. The representative of the United Left Group presented their amendments and stressed that the bill was only valid at first sight; in fact, it meant only cosmetic corrections and that some would be socially disadvantaged. In their view, the government should propose a socially fair real estate law if it has a serious intention to reduce property inequality; rather than jeopardising the social security of socially disadvantaged persons and the welfare of their heirs. The amendments therefore suggest that the return of social assistance is not necessary for the owners of dwellings who actually reside in them or who have lived until the arrival of older citizens or a similar institution; regardless of the value of these dwellings. They also propose not to restrict the activity of people who have received household care or who have had the right to receive the allowance of a family helper for disabled persons, and that open procedures for the inheritance of homes and houses on which the registration was made are finally in line with this law, since this law is more favourable for the heirs of socially disadvantaged persons. They also propose equal treatment for all persons whose inheritance was limited by the implementation of the Social Security Benefits Act on 1 January 2012. The amendments did not receive majority support, as most discussers felt that the proposed government measures would help the socially weak not to reject social assistance. The fact is that a step forward has been taken to help people with low incomes and low pensions. Surely, however, this legislation cannot be the only one to solve social problems, just as the competent ministry cannot bear responsibility for the entire social policy of the country. It has also been pointed out that the cultural pattern of Slovenians in amending legislation in this area has been very cheap, which is characterised by a high proportion of ownership dwellings with which individuals and families resolve their housing issue, especially among older households, there are 87% of the owners of dwellings. It must therefore be said that the social risks were eligible for the aid they would receive, but they rejected it for the sake of their relatives or heirs. With regard to the concerns about who the proposed legal provisions or potential recipients or their heirs would actually help, the view was also expressed that it is right to adopt and assist people, including heirs, and that we do not treat the issue in uniform. The Committee has adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups, but has not adopted the amendments of the Joint Left Group. The amended bill is an integral part of this report, which I have just presented to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u125	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u126	Your Honor! Hello again! I particularly welcome our Minister, who is now among us. With the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act, we are fulfilling another commitment under the coalition agreement. In the Coalition Agreement, the Government has committed itself to burdening beneficiaries of a property-owned security allowance with the markings of a non-removal ban. And that's the solution we have on the table today. The Institute for the Prohibition of Deprivation and Loading has raised a lot of dust; rightly or not, we find it difficult to judge. However, we believe that the purpose of the Institute to register the ban on the disposal and loading of real estate has never been to reduce the number of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and also not the number of beneficiaries of the security allowance. But unfortunately, that's exactly what happened, and today we're fixing it. We have addressed the most urgent shortcomings of social legislation since 2013 when we adopted certain amendments to legislation that have proved to be the most attractive in practice. On 1 January 2014, amendments to social legislation entered into force, which, inter alia, gave effect to the fact that there was no need to repay monetary social assistance and exceptional financial social assistance received by a person for 12 months or less. If it has received them for more than 12 months, the inheritance shall be limited by deducting from the aid received first 12 maximum monthly amounts and then one third from the remaining monthly amounts of the aid received. With the proposed novel, we are saving another one of the remaining anomalies. In the proposal for a government novelty, it is proposed that the Institute be deleted from the register of the prohibition on the disposal and disposal of property owned by the beneficiary of a financial social assistance or a protective allowance which is eligible for those rights because, in accordance with the legal provisions, there is insufficient means of subsistence. As such, a person who owns and owns a property does not exceed a legal property limit and a person who owns a residential unit in which he actually resides and has a registered permanent residence and whose value does not exceed EUR 120 000. The solutions proposed shall apply in the case of new beneficiaries of monetary social assistance or a protective allowance and in the case of already registered trade marks, the prohibition of alienation and burden. Thus, the registering institution shall only be maintained for the mentioned round of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance or a protective allowance. The limitation of inheritance shall be effected up to the amount of the aid received by the person in compliance with those conditions. However, if a person owns an apartment worth more than EUR 120 000, the said rights can only be justified if the Centre for Social Work, on the basis of its discretion, considers that he or she cannot provide housing for himself temporarily because of circumstances which he or she cannot influence; and after a reasonable period of time, on an additional condition, that is to say that he or she agrees with the prohibition on the disposal and loading of all property owned by him or her. For persons who have received financial social assistance or a protective allowance under the current law and have not had sufficient means of subsistence in accordance with the legal provisions, it is proposed that the inheritance of their property be limited to the same extent as the legislation in force. We believe that solutions are going in the right direction, so we will also support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u127	The text shall be given by the Group of Members of the United Left, in its name Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u128	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! On every occasion in the United Left, we advocated a consistent abolition of the social benefits. For us, the return of a protective supplement is as unacceptable as the return of a child supplement. No family living in a home is required to return a child’s allowance or to refund a subsidy for payment of a kindergarten and a school lunch. On what basis, then, is the family of an elderly person required to return a protective allowance or household allowance?Oh, my God! We claim that therefore there is no moral basis. In the budget adopted, around 200 million are allocated for all social aid and social allowances, which is half less than that allocated to companies. Most of the subsidies and state aid are irreparable. When the company is rehabilitated or the investment is paid back, it doesn't have to pay it back. For socially disadvantaged people and their heirs, we only demand what is true for families with children or for businesses. We demand that their social benefits cease to be credit and become irreparable aid. When Pahor’s government adopted this law, we had 47,000 recipients of a protective allowance and 14 thousand 600 recipients of state pensions. In the course of the night, this number dropped to just 13,000, and today there are fewer than 11,000 recipients. The government itself says that it was a radical reduction and that the decline of recipients was not linked to smaller needs but to individual decisions not to enforce justice. In short, people don't ask for help because they want to keep an apartment or a house for their heirs. And that's a rational decision. Among all categories of the population, the highest risk of poverty is that of old people who do not have their own apartments and live in rentals. If the coalition really wants to address the problem created in 2012, it must amend the original proposal and remove the limit of 120 000 euros. If it insists on the original proposal, it will not, of course, solve the problem. We all know that the return in 2014 was quite popular, but the number of recipients of the protection allowance did not increase. Moreover, the government notes that the number of older recipients continues to decline steadily. This trend can only be interrupted if we exclude from censorship any house or apartment in which the beneficiary resides. It is absolutely not the case that there is an urgent need to set a limit. In the judiciary, it is said that it is better to release ten guilty than to condemn one innocent. It is far worse that today there are thousands of socially disadvantaged people without any state aid than if an allowance is received without return by someone who has built a house in Ljubljana. There are no financial reasons for returning social assistance. The average security allowance is € 153 per month or € 000 836 per year. The government expects its proposal to increase the number of recipients by 5,000 and to receive €9.3 million through the reallocation of funds within the budget. If the number of recipients as a result of our proposal were to increase by another thousand, it is still only 1.8 million euros per year. This is extremely small in terms of the budget; for an elderly woman from a poor farm who was deprived of her only income, the former state pension, this is huge. It will not transfer this money to tax havens or buy a Beemwei, this money will be spent in Slovenia in a moment. That is why I call on members of the coalition to lift the limit to €120,000. From what I understand, our amendment will also be supported by the opposition. But if you're against it, say it, just don't make excuses that what we're proposing is impossible. We are talking, for God's sake, about 1.8 million euros for a thousand people who won't get help in good faith, but only if they really don't have their income, savings and other assets like the house they're living in right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u129	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u130	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! In New Slovenia, we have been pointing out for five years the injustices caused by the adoption of the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds. In particular, these injustices have been expressed in the area of receiving financial social assistance and a protective allowance, which have become a recoverable category of recipient. People who have already lived on the brink of poverty or poverty because of their underprivileged pensions have thus given up in mass for receiving a protective supplement in order to preserve theirs, mostly their only assets. Statistical data on the consequences or effects of the so-called Light Law are overwhelming. The level of risk of poverty in Slovenia was slightly lower this year, according to the data of Umarja, which I mentioned at the previous point, but still higher than before the crisis. The level of risk of poverty has been reduced by self-employed, unemployed, inactive and fixed-term employees. Compared to the previous year, the level of risk of poverty has deteriorated in the employee group for an indefinite period of time. The level of risk of poverty among employees has never been higher. Compared to the previous year, some of the most vulnerable groups have also increased their risk of poverty. These are unemployed persons, single women, single-member households and single-parent households. And they are also to be subject to the amended Law on Social Security Benefits. In Novi Slovenija, we were happy with the proposal for a law that we are dealing with. We were convinced that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities had finally come to terms with the mistakes of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds and that the unfair return of financial social assistance and the protection allowance would finally be eliminated. After a thorough review of the law, however, we can find that the text of the bill is extremely complex and incomprehensible, as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also points out in its opinion. The introduction of new limits for the granting of aid or for the indication of the limitation of succession will introduce new options for errors into the legal order and will extend the decision-making procedures on rights. This is unacceptable and, with such a proposal, we are still moving away from understanding and understanding the rule of law, where laws should be short, clear and understandable. It is not clear whether only the apartment or house is taken into account at the income line, or whether the remaining property, property, forest, land or movable property is taken into account. It is unclear from this proposal whether the absolute limit is the value of an apartment or a house of EUR 120 000 and the role that 48 amounts of minimum income play in determining eligibility or recording. We raised all these questions at the work committee meeting, and unfortunately we did not receive clear answers from the Secretary of State. We are approached by confused citizens who do not know whether the previous receipt of financial social assistance is still coming back or not. It's the same with a protective supplement. Older citizens, however, are calling and witnessing the misery they are living in, because Svetlik's law has taken away those more than 180 euros of state pension, which in spite of everything has meant a great deal to them. If we are to enable a citizen with legislation to live a normal and decent life, laws must be short, clear, simple and comprehensible. In reviewing this law, we find it so complicated in New Slovenia that it will really only be water on the mill for lawyers to look for and explain all of this because some applicants are not so clear. I'm afraid even workers at social work centres won't know what to do. Nevertheless, we will support the law, since at least a little will be done to ease the current unsustainable situation for the recipients of monetary social assistance and the protection allowance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u131	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Again, I welcome all those present very well! At this meeting, too, we are considering amendments to the Social Security Benefits Act, as we discussed the proposal for a new law in October this year; at that time, on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. We will discuss whether funds such as cash social assistance and a security allowance are subject to recovery. And if the government has advocated in previous opinions that aid should be returned; today its position is slightly different, because the level of risk of poverty in Slovenia is still high and because it appears mainly in the older population, where it is higher than on average in Slovenia. One major change to the law before us for the majority of recipients of the protection allowance and financial social assistance is to remove the property registrations and the heirs from the return of the aid received by the procurators. The proposed change will apply to those who own property worth up to €120,000 and live in it. It assesses whether you are an individual or a family because of low incomes, even though it owns property, it is temporarily unable to provide survival without financial assistance or a social security allowance, and will be left to the centres for social work. The beneficiary will be able to receive one or the other aid from the State without fear that the State will establish a registering institution on its property and that the successors will have to repay the aid received. Although the objectives pursued by the proposed amendment are supported by the Government, we do not have any answers in the parliamentary group to some specific dilemmas and reservations raised by the Legislative and Legal Service and so do we. In line with the novelty that we are considering today, the procedures for erasure of existing property trade marks will be carried out by the court with the help of existing information technologies. We are really interested in what existing technologies the applicant has in mind and whether these technologies exclude errors that, for example, would have harmful consequences for participants and procedures. We are convinced that no one wants the chaos and confusion that would arise in the event of incorrect erasures of the marks and the consequent deterioration of the position of the participant on the one hand or on the other; and the complaints that would follow. Here is a new 54a article which affects two separate laws which define the right to a security allowance and money aid, and the novelty itself does not clarify the relationship or relationship between the three laws. In particular, I would like to point out a €120,000 asset price, for which there is no clear and concrete basis for the valuation on which it was established. The applicant only unconvincingly explains that the limit of EUR 120 000 is set on the basis of data from the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. Here I cannot go beyond the fact that the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia values on the basis of the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, which is based on the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014 in non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, precisely in the part which defines the valuation of real estate. I hope the proposer is also aware of this. It also pointed out on the ground that the right to adequate legal protection was not guaranteed in the proposed amendment. In what way, then, should the individual beneficiary complain against the estimated value of the property in the event that it disagrees with the assessment? Who is obliged to pay for the new property valuation? The value of the property is only a real estate register that neither the geodetic authorities nor the tax authorities can change. Therefore, we would also like to know what appeal procedure against the estimated value of the property was foreseen by the applicant and in such a case, who will bear the costs of the procedure? In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the amendment of the Law on Social Security Benefits, as we believe that, despite our reservations, it is important that citizens and citizens, if possible, make life easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u133	The word shall be given by the Group of the Modern Centre Parties, in its name mag. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u134	Dear President, Minister with a team, dear colleagues and colleagues! The last novel of the Law on Social Security Benefits is in some ways due to past solutions that have ignored the power of human customs and customs, customs that cannot be changed overnight or in a year or two. Such a case of quasi-resistance was the transition of the protective allowance from the pension system to the social transfers system, by introducing a de-recognition ban on immovable property. From 2012, when the right to a protective allowance was still placed in the pension system, until December 2012, when the right was already part of the social transfers system, the number of recipients of the protective allowance fell significantly, from a poor 47 000 to around 10 000. The legislation relating to social security benefits has already changed over the last three years due to perceived difficulties in its implementation. The first amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act 2013 extended the range of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and introduced an amendment that does not require the repayment of extraordinary financial social assistance today. This novel has made it possible for the succession, in the event that a person has received financial social assistance for more than 12 months, to be limited to deducting from the aid received from the maximum of 12 monthly amounts and then one third from the remaining monthly amounts of the aid received. Similarly, changes in the determination of eligibility conditions for a protective additive have been made. Data on the number of recipients of the safeguard additive in December 2011 and December 2012 show that the number of recipients has decreased by good three quarters. Many individuals have waived the protection allowance in order to record the prohibition on the disposal and loading of property. However, the second amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act 2013 introduced a succession restriction, namely that the property of the person receiving the social security allowance was limited to two thirds of the value of the aid received. The effect of these changes was too small. And what does the novels that we are considering today bring us? The novelty ahead of us is not the first attempt to amend legislation in the field of social security benefits after 2011. Recent legislative changes have been followed by greater social security for individuals and so is this time; but with the imposition of a 120 000 euro censorship. This time it takes into account the specificity of Slovenian society in terms of the high share of ownership and housing, the attachment to real estate, especially the elderly, and the high housing immobility of the elderly. Persons living in their own real estate of up to EUR 120 000 will be newly entitled to cash assistance and a security allowance without being recorded on that same property. It also abolishes the return of both rights. Persons who are socially at risk, but exceed the property price of €120,000, will also be able to receive cash aid or a security allowance after two years of free reflection of the Centre for Social Work, but in these cases the mandatory mark will also return the aid received. For this reason, we will support the proposal for a law in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u135	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u136	At the initiative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, led by then Minister Ivan Svetlik, a coalition led by Social Democrats adopted the Social Security Benefits Act in 2010 which imposed a mortgage on socially disadvantaged property owners who wanted to receive social benefits. She was then Secretary of State, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, who is today Secretary of State. The Act of that year, which was adopted on a proposal from the Social Democrats-led station, also abolished state pensions and referred the recipients of state pensions to protective allowances, which should then be returned from their inheritance, while also charging their property with a mortgage for the refund of the security allowance. The law did not only change the social benefits secured by the State’s loan, but also wiped out thousands of recipients of state pensions. For information only, after the entry into force of this non-life law, the number of recipients of the protection allowance decreased by 78 % at the beginning of 2012. I think that's enough talk. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already made it clear at the time of the adoption of this law that such a law as it was adopted is unacceptable, harmful and adds to the poverty and suffering of people, since already a large majority of them live on the social side. Since there was no understanding by the rulings, we have tabled an amendment to the Act already in 2015 and for the second time in 2016 in the Slovenian Democratic Party; however, the amendment of the Act was both rejected by the current coalition. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Benefits Act was introduced with the aim of correcting such an unacceptable situation and allowing all recipients of the social security allowance and social assistance to resume their decision to receive these two social adjustments and at least slightly detached from the social bed. We are now witnessing that the Ministry and Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, who was the State Secretary of the Government of Borut Pahor at this Ministry and co-formed this harmful law, proposed a change to that. I am sure that she did so because the elections are nearing the National Assembly and the Social Democrats are showing a bad picture of public opinion polls. That is why she is willing to do everything she can to make these trends turn around; even at the cost of pruning everything you have previously advocated in a fiery way. This government and coalition really care little about the poorest, those with a small pension, those who live on the threshold of poverty and below it, for workers with a minimum wage. Nevertheless, we are pleased in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this law is on the agenda and is only a partial approximation of our proposal, which we tabled in 2015 and 2016. Of course, we have also drawn up two amendments which stipulate that the law also applies to those social benefits that were received prior to the entry into force of this law. It seems entirely pointless and even manipulative to us by the Government that, in a different situation, the return of social benefits should be placed before and after the law has been enforced, as the same criteria for limiting the return of aid and the protection allowance should apply to all equally. If the amendment is adopted, this law will be improved, fair and, above all, close to what we are committed to in the Slovenian Democratic Party all the time, so we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u137	The word shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, in its name mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u138	Dear President, Members, Members of Parliament, Representatives of the Government and other representatives present! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Social Security Benefits, which we will welcome in the Desus Group. The proposal for a law abolishes the invalidity of the previous Social Security Benefits Act adopted during the financial and economic crisis and has caused even less financial and social distress to the wealthy and the most vulnerable part of the population of Slovenia. Let me recall, however, that each government and, in particular, the competent ministry should be significantly more sensitive to the social rights of the most vulnerable population, as was unfortunately the case at the time of the financial crisis; that they should not again face proposals from governments and competent ministries that would cause additional social distress for the most vulnerable, even though they should be particularly concerned in times of economic crisis to address the social pressures of the population. Individuals, especially older ones, have given up their protective allowance on a massive basis because of the previous law on social security benefits and prefer to live with too low pensions or incomes, rather than return to their heirs after the death of the recipient of the protective allowance, which they would receive from their inheritance, that is, from the sale of their property. The property of the beneficiary of the protective supplement represented a large proportion of those who gave up the protective allowance, meaning a safe future for the stay or survival of its immediate family, partner or partner, their children and their children’s families. Thus, the number of recipients of the protection allowance from legislative changes in 2012 fell from 46 000 700 to around 10 000. The purpose of social assistance is not, of course, and must not be, to grant without criteria to anyone; rather, it is the intention of the social state to provide the person living in extreme economic conditions of material scarcity with the just and just assistance he needs. It is essential that conditions be laid down to justify the purpose of social rights and that the right to social security of other citizens is not jeopardised. If the established criteria for receiving social assistance from public funds are appropriate, it should not be questionable to offer grants to people for their survival, which is, of course, significantly more justified than the granting of grants to economic companies, which, later on, do not pay back to the State for their profits. As a result of this, we have committed ourselves to improving the provisions of social legislation in order to ensure that beneficiaries of a property-owned security allowance are burdened with the prohibitions on the disposal of immovable property. This proposal brings even more. The recipients of cash social assistance will also be justified in their property records, as will the beneficiaries of the security allowance. Individuals and families who own property worth up to EUR 120 000 and live or have a permanent residence in this house or apartment can obtain cash social assistance and a security allowance without registration; and the amounts of aid received will also not have to be reimbursed. This law is now the second in the field of social protection, which relaxes the conditions and criteria and makes life easier for the most vulnerable group of people in our country. These are older people, pensioners and those who, mainly because they do not get a job and thus receive their own income, receive State aid. In the Desus Group, we are pleased with this law because we are convinced that the amendments to the Social Security Benefits Act will help people of all generations and especially older people living in social distress today who are materially disadvantaged will receive a social security allowance and financial social assistance without fear of endangering the survival of their partner and their immediate family after their death. This will significantly improve the quality of life of recipients of the social security allowance. Therefore, the Desus Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Security Benefits Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 16 December. Since the amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left to Articles 1 and 5 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I shall put to the debate Articles 1 and 5 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors the United Left to these Articles. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. We have proposed not to include the housing unit where the applicant lives in any way in return. 120 000 euros is a limit and is like any limit completely non-life, because we know that 120 000 can be a wardrobe in Ljubljana or a house in the countryside. Nor does he hold the argument, as some have said, that then the applicant will be able to buy an apartment. You know, the houses in the countryside are worth about 20, 30 thousand euros, and I don't know what you're supposed to help yourself with. We suggest that the housing unit in which the applicant lives is completely exempt from returnability. The problem is also that most applicants are not familiar with complicated legislation. Many of them do not even know that returnability was popular already in 2014, and then people don't go into counting and speculating whether it's more worth it or not, whether it's worth paying back the security allowance in part or not. They only know that their house is at risk, that the housing problems of their descendants are at risk; and they give up. Only those who have no offspring can agree to this, and so on and so on, no matter who inherits their dwelling. We need to abolish return if we want the measure to be fair to all. We also heard in the debate that in Slovenia we have some sentimental attitude towards housing units, which is not true. People save their whole lives for an apartment, and then they could lose everything because of one meal of protective supplement. At the same time, the state does not have a strategy, does not have a housing policy and does not guarantee their descendants that they will be able to reach a new housing unit at any time. Based on the calculations, let's say a man should have been working for about 30 years without eating, drinking, allowing himself anything to get to the housing unit. We are absolutely convinced that returnability must be eliminated. Why is this measure bad and worse than the previous marriage? Let's say that there were two people living in 80 square feet of apartment and that he owned one of them. The apartment is estimated at about 120 thousand, say 121 thousand euros. According to the old legislation, it would not be necessary to return because it is suitable for two persons 90 square meters and under the new law for such persons to enter the seal. For some groups of socially disadvantaged, this law is even less favourable than it has been since the regulation. For the present arrangement is related to an adequate dwelling, while the new arrangement does not take into account either the size of the apartment or the number of persons living in the apartment. It should be borne in mind that the owners of apartments or houses worth more than EUR 120 000 are relatively few, and at the same time it must be borne in mind that they are not rich. Secretary of State Martina Vuk said that if we eliminate the return on houses or apartments where applicants live, then someone could live in a villa or a mansion. It is unlikely that someone living below the poverty line who is entitled to social benefits actually lives in a villa or even a mansion. We suggest that you support our amendment, for if you really want to make a just solution, one that will be good for everyone and that will achieve its purpose, then we must by no means throw people out of the housing units they live in and that they have probably gotten rather difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed an amendment to Article 7 to amend the text of the article by saying: “In the legacy proceedings that have not yet been completed before the application of this law, the restriction on the inheritance of the property of the person who has benefited from the social protection signatures shall be exercised under the conditions and in the manner laid down by this Act.” We have written in the explanatory memorandum: The amendment proposes that the new law be applied also in pending procedures concerning the limitation of the inheritance of property of a person who has benefited from aid in accordance with the social protection rules that were in force prior to the entry into force of this law. Thus, their situation will be aligned with that of those who will benefit from this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this proposal of our amendment is yet to be put in place, because we have heard in the debate today that there are still many open questions that will be extremely difficult to answer. In some part of her discussion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also mentioned this. There will be moments where there are simply no appropriate solutions at this time, regardless of the fact that the law will be adopted. And I think that this is wrong, and also from the Ministry to this point we have not received adequate explanations for a whole bunch of open questions. And I wouldn't now mention which questions were not answered in a good way. It seems to us and to me personally that it would be very important when marriage is brought to the National Assembly, practically all the key dilemmas should be resolved, so that those who begin to apply this law understand the essence of this law. And in that case, that's not the case. Nevertheless, I must say that I am glad that this law is in parliamentary procedure; and I thank all those who will vote in favour of this law. I'd like to mention a few things about this amendment. Since the debate in the National Assembly with such a way of adopting this law was virtually impossible, it would be right for me to say a few sentences in the context of the time available to me on certain matters concerning this law. It bothers me terribly, I've never been double-faced and I don't understand those people who talk about the exact same thing yesterday; in the next moment, in a few months, the difference, because the elections are coming up, is completely different. It's an interesting story. Mrs. Bachič of the Social Democrats. Why am I talking about Social Democrats this time? Because they were the ones who adopted this law in 2010. On 23 April 2015, Mrs Bachič said: "To those who cannot survive, to provide for themselves by work, work rights or insurance of income from property and other resources, or by compensations or benefits under other regulations, or by means of those who owe it to them, or by other means provided by law. But everyone else who owns any property has to activate this property for their survival. We believe that the proposal of the novel undermines the social protection system based on social justice, solidarity and on the principles of equal accessibility and free choice of forms; therefore, we cannot support the bill in the proposed text. We will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration." And this was the law tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party in 2015 and then the second proposal in 2016. And today, Mrs Bachič said: "We are saving another anomaly. The solutions go in the right direction.” Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President and all those sitting here in the National Assembly, can anyone explain this duality to me?Oh, my God! How can someone speak like that a few months ago, and today he speaks quite differently. That's amazing. At that time, none of the key things have changed. But the fact is, the Social Democrats are extremely dual. And today this marriage would not be in this place. I would not be in the parliamentary procedure if, as I have already said twice today, the state-level elections were not near. I'm not burdening any other party here. There are also some other interlocutors who voted in favour of this law 2010 but did not, at least in this way, double play. By 2015, Mrs Bachič had already said the exact opposite of what she was saying today. And that's disgusting. It's unacceptable that I won't say anything else. That's too much. I am sure that all those who are sitting here and who are aware of the problem that people have encountered when this law was passed, when state pensions were abolished, are said to have been a direct blow to the most suffering people, those who have about 230 who had about 80 or 120 euros in pension and then have lost everything. And then after those who had 230, 250; I repeat this many times because it is a fact. And that's exactly what we did with this marriage. And that we needed from 2010 to 2016 to realize that at that time one of the biggest mistakes in Slovenia's history in social policy was made. It took six years. We've been alerting this anomaly in the Slovenian Democratic Party all along, this is what they're talking about, this stupidity that's happened. I am very critical of all the political parties in this national assembly; this time, thank God, we have stepped in together and I think that this time Desus has helped a little, and I must also sometimes commend him. This seemed nice to me that we brought this matter to the table; otherwise, those who adopted this law did everything they could to avoid it. I hope that this law will also receive adequate support at the vote tomorrow in the National Assembly. Then we have an amendment to Article 9, and then I will call back. This amendment, which we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, I say that it is very well placed; and it would be right, and I would also like to ask the parliamentary groups sitting in the National Assembly to support this amendment, too, to clarify a little more the problem that will happen after this law is passed. And people who are in some kind of process are going to have a big problem. Now we don't know if the problems will be solved under the previous law or after the new one. People will logically seek legal protection, which is also logical, right, fair and responsible. And what in that case? And we have not received an explicit answer to this question until now, at least I have not received it, but I must say that I am listening very carefully, very closely following every statement made by the Minister, Mrs Wolfe's Secretary of State; not because she speaks much, but that is all she knows. Of course, I expect the Minister to have a clear answer to the questions that will continue in these debates today, because she has time available, in a very concrete, very explicit manner, to see what we are dealing with. Above all, those people who are looking at us now, citizens and citizens who have been most burdened by this law, who are also going to have a concrete answer, that they will know how to react at some point, that they will not go from door to door again, from one lawyer, another, third, fifth. One will send them to one door, the other to another, the third to social inspection, or I don't know where. People will not get the right answer, and it will be around again for a year, that people will have a clear picture of how the problem they face will be solved on the basis of this amendment, which I am talking about, how this problem will be resolved in their favour. And I want these things to be clear. In marriage, things must be extremely clear, precisely laid down. There must be no fog in there; when the fog is in the marriage, then it is known why this fog is in there so that someone in the mud fishing. And I ask and hope that this is not the case at this time and in this law and that this is not an example of such bad practice, because we are already very accustomed to it when we adopt our legislation. Since almost every marriage that comes into the National Assembly, a fog of individual narrow lobbyist groups is hurled into it. And I hope this fog and this shit is over. Thank you, Mr Vice President, I've gone a little wider than this amendment, but I know you're right. Thank you for letting me do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Minister Anja Kopač Dark has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Say good-bye again! With these amendments and even in the introduction, quite a few words have been said, and I think it is good that we also provide some basic explanations for citizens and citizens who are probably very interested in and tanning this area. The social assistance system is intended for those most at risk in all European countries and for all those who do not have the property and cannot provide their livelihood in any other way. And before the country enters, it's also a very important family. You have described in your explanation the regulation in other legal systems; in the Netherlands, Denmark, Austria, Germany, in what way, who is entitled. Most countries, if individuals have larger assets, i.e. housing and real estate, for monetary social assistance, or for English social assistance, are not justified because they are taken to have resources to survive. Of course, they are very different in the countries of order, but one thing is important. When we look on one side of people who need help and have acquired wealth in their lives, and so is, but you need to know that for this money social assistance is paid by young people who have credits that are hard to live on. Here, in terms of the country's fairness, it is necessary to ensure the arrangements that most citizens and citizens in each country, in this case we are talking about Slovenia, will take for granted. The Heritage Act, which was adopted in our country in 1976, states that all social assistance or financial social assistance received may be subject to a legacy debate. This was introduced in 1976. In 2010, as most of you have pointed out, the State has introduced a property code for those who are recipients of cash social assistance and a security allowance. The arrangements for recovery have been in force since 1976. And now there is something very important that you need to know, which is a fundamental change in the light of this bill. All those who received financial social assistance, so not just property owners, if they had in the end, when they died, assets, were due back under our law. With this proposal before you today, this is over. The recovery of the cash social assistance received and the security allowance for all those who do not have a housing unit of higher value than 120 000, i.e. those who have applied since the adoption of the law will not be subject to any refund. None of you have highlighted this in the debate. In fact, today you can be a recipient of financial social assistance as a young person and, at the end of your life, you can still be subject to the succession of this property by the state. So it's a big change in our country's existing system. You talked a lot about the border. The United Left has pointed out that borders are always unfair. True, the limit you set is always unfair for someone who exceeds 1 euro, 1 cent. But we must be aware that we are paying monetary social assistance to all citizens and citizens, this is with transfers, with so-called vertical redistribution; those who have more pay more; those who have less pay less, but all pay less. From the point of view of someone who has nothing to pay for a loan, a rent, right now, a gentleman wrote to me that he objected because he has to pay his entire life's rent and because he has a higher pension for 2 euros, he is not entitled to a security allowance. There are always these stories, and you're trying to find a solution that is accepted as fair from the point of view of everyone. Why did we put up 120,000 euros? We've looked at the whole system. At this point, the highest value of real estate, when we look at the recipients of monetary social assistance and the security allowance, is on average for the Primorska and coastal regions, where the highest price is now €70 000. If we look at the whole of Slovenia, it's strong about 40,000 euros. This is the current value of the recipients of the DSP and the protective allowance which are eligible. How many are there that have over 120,000 euros on Gurs? So these aren't market values, these are Gurs values. We have taken the highest general value in the Republic of Slovenia by Gurs, it is 118 thousand, we have rounded to 120 thousand because you have to realize that this value is still a value that is not negligible. Some of you even said that the previous arrangement was more just and that this could not have happened. Unfortunately, we found in the system after the review that the family from the Styrian part of Slovenia is a recipient of cash social assistance and has a house worth 506 thousand euros. It's probably not a system that's fairer to all those who don't come to real estate. We've been doing a lot of border work. We've been looking for a lot of options for what would be fair in the country. The fact is that all of us together in the National Assembly, when we set up and when we elaborate, also contribute to this, what our citizens and citizens take for granted, what they see as fair. I know everyone would wish that real estate wasn't part of not being marked, but in the system we're all paying and contributing. Even those who pay must see this system as righteous. It's important to say that there won't be any confusion, we haven't touched back. Those who have received financial social assistance and a protective allowance before the application of this Act shall be subject to the provisions laid down in previous laws. Why didn't we intervene on the proposal like you did with the amendment? Since several citizens and citizens have returned part of the financial social assistance received and the security allowance under the applicable laws in force during this period. And we're putting these citizens and citizens in an inappropriate position if we change things back now. And it is not possible to say that only the legacy debates end under the existing law, because you need to know that under the other rules that were in force before the adoption of this law, people have obtained the right to financial social assistance and a protection allowance which were different. And that would only confuse the system. We've given this a lot of thought in the ministry, too, but it's the clearest arrangement. With a new law, new regulation in this area, new rules of the game that will apply from the day that this will apply. Maybe one more thing about duality. May I remind this High Council that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was rejected at the referendum, included the right to a state pension. Unfortunately, the proposal adopted at the time of the government of Janez Janša, which was adopted in this National Assembly, did not introduce this equal opportunity for the return of state pensions into the system and the law adopted. So the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which entered into force 1. 1. 2013, this was not included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you for saying good-bye! Also in the United Left since the beginning of the mandate, we warn that so-called markings, real estate seals are unfair and must be removed immediately. Social assistance must be aid and not credit. Here, in fact, from recipients of social assistance, from the weakest we make debtors or make their descendants for debtors. After six years of implementation of this law, it is high time that we gathered in the National Assembly the political will to finally put an end to this; unfortunately, the proposal we have on the table has remained in the middle of nowhere. That is why, in the United Left, we have proposed two amendments, which I will now present briefly. Firstly, the fact that as a property value limit to which social assistance is not credit, but is social assistance, sets a number of 120 thousand is an administrative limit, which is non-life. It puts the poor guy from Ljubljana or the poor guy from the periphery in an uneven position. Someone who lives in a village can probably have a bigger property, but is less valuable, while someone who is in Ljubljana can live in a one-bedroom apartment or even a wardrobe, and the value of this property exceeds 120 000 because of the prices of real estate in the local market. Telling this man to sell his apartment and move elsewhere is like telling someone in the periphery who, say, has a relatively large property, whose value is nominally above 120 thousand, the question is whether he can do it at all, or whether he will find a buyer for this property. We know that there is no demand for old houses of large squares on the outskirts, so it is very difficult to get this man to sell the property in order to qualify for a protective allowance. On the other hand, someone who lives in a small apartment is now forced to move into another social environment, he is already so deprived, he can live somewhere near the center of Ljubljana, around here has a social circle, here is his life going on. And now moving him out of Ljubljana to qualify for a protective supplement is again a rather brutal measure. And so in the United Left, we think that the only way to ensure the social justice of what we have before us is simply to say that this fictitious property limit of €120,000 is deleted. In all the other scenarios, we get these results. Some members of the coalition argued that the culture in Slovenia is such that people hold on to their properties. It is easy to say that culture is such; but this culture is a response to something. This culture responds to the fact that the country does not have a housing policy. You can drive a man out of his apartment, but, for the first time, the public housing program is almost gone, so it's a question of where he's going to move. And secondly, will his descendants then get their real estate. For them too, there are no such properties for a young generation. This legacy that someone can get a good real estate is probably one of the rare possibilities. The other thing that remains is that you take a loan for 100,000 or more euros, you repay it for 30 years, and you become a virtually lifetime slave. Therefore, this limit, which is set, is not only harmful for older people directly targeted, but also harmful for young generations who could once move into these apartments or who, above all, are in the periphery of the upper floors managing their dwellings. As far as we are concerned, we are absolutely in favour of this fictitious frontier being erased and people not falling from property, simply put. The second issue has already been mentioned in the debate, and our proposal is that the new law should also be taken into account for open procedures. For those who are now in the process of succession and are on their property or on the property they inherit, they are recorded to be deleted and this new proposal is taken into account. As I said before, it is unacceptable that in 2010 under the Social Democratic Government social assistance was transformed into a credit. This is unworthy of any civilized society, and this must end in all cases where we can end it and stop it. So much for a moment on my part. I hope that you will support our amendments and that we will do at least one more good in this year's last session not only for the pensioners who have given up the protective allowance in a mass way. If we just look at the numbers, in 2010, 47,000 people received the security allowance, today it's only 11,000 more, it's said to be a first-hand scary measure. On the other hand, as I said, we also offer a hand to future generations and do not deny them the apartments they can inherit from their old parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanya Zink. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you, Vice President. The Coalition has already undertaken in the Coalition Agreement to relieve beneficiaries of a security allowance that is less property-owners of property from the prohibition of the alienation of this property. This proposal also offers its commitment today. I must point out that we have also stopped for quite some time in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre when it comes to the debate on property censorship, when it comes to the ownership of the apartment, because the opinions were very shared and the question was raised as to whether the limit of EUR 120 000 was indeed the right one. I am of the opinion that it needs to be defined, and it seems so fair to me, so I think that the bill is also set relatively high and still covers a wide range of beneficiaries of a protective allowance or monetary aid. What is to be stressed may also be that the state is really helping those who are in social distress, but really social distress, of course not by their own fault, and who do not have enough resources to survive. This is also the basic purpose of these two benefits. As for the return, which was discussed earlier, if we remember correctly, with the law currently in force, there has been quite a few indications that the state is essentially lending the beneficiaries, which we can now avoid with this proposal that we now have before us. If the person receiving the aid leaves the property with which it could provide its own survival, it is also justified to conclude that it was not in social distress. The limitation of inheritance under the Succession Act is also based primarily on the requirement that the property remaining for State aid be returned to the State and not distributed to the heirs. I am convinced that so far many older people have given up a protective supplement so as not to endanger their children once in the future. Or they gave up because in this property they were investing in, they saw their hard work and blisters, so I still think it's a sentimental relationship to real estate. To conclude, I might say that, on the basis of the broad debate we had in the coalition, together with the Minister and the team, I believe that the Ministry has drawn up a proposal which, under the circumstances or for the social policy system we have, is appropriate and even more fair, so I will also support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. I would first remind the Minister who went to a long time ago in 1976, but did not want to stop in 2010. This is the year in which such a very social party has taken an unheard-of non-social step. The fact is that the social state, which is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, has turned it into credit. It was simple lending. Today we are seven years after solving a problem; but what about these seven years, respect?Oh, my God! What about people who have suffered this for seven years and who have lived this way?Oh, my God! And that is exactly where the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party are going. Presidents, I hope that there is no problem in bringing the amendments together, as some have come back; and it is only right that we are talking about all of them then. Just explain it to me. We know that I do not know how many, 78%, I think that earlier said Comrade Pojbič, cancelled the so-called protection allowance. How will we return to those who gave up because they wanted to leave their offspring behind what they had spent in life?Oh, my God! Some have also inherited, some in those properties have lived for centuries because they are descendants of offspring. Tell me, how are you going to save the fact that those who have given up protective supplements and lived have literally beaten the day after the day of poverty and everything else, how are you going to handle it now?Oh, my God! We simply need to resolve this issue with the amendment of Article 9 of the Slovenian Democratic Party, so that things can go backwards. And another, two years ago, 2014 and then 2016 in the Slovenian Democratic Party we practically proposed a similar solution. Even these two years would have enabled a number of people to receive this protective supplement, which is precisely because of these restrictions. And now you, because of course you are preparing for some hunt for new voices, because obviously the elections are coming, now you are correcting something for the horror; but the injustices that have been done, we are not correcting it. Thank God we'll save at least those in this situation today, tomorrow. What about everyone else back? At the previous point, we listened to the proposal of the United Left, which happened to them in a similar way. A similar proposal has been proposed in the past, of course it has not been adopted, because the time was not right, the situation in the country is there, it will be difficult for you to treat me however here, because we are still heavily indebted and even with each year. The situation and the situation here are no different. But all right, we saved the kids, even though I say we have to save the families, we need to save their parents who can fly back from the real estate if, of course, things aren't settled back. The children will not be hungry, but without a roof over their heads. Besides, if we don't save our families, these kids are gonna be hungry on summer vacations because there's no school. These are solutions that are kind of in half, and this proposal is still kind of in half. The guilt was committed and the injustice must be dealt with in full. Not now because someone really cares about some political points, he saves in half. But the saddest part is, when I listened to my colleague Zink, who said they had it in their coalition contract. Good morning! In 2015 and 2016 you were able to solve this. With the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because you did not save it before, you did not support it. It is said that the coalition contract or programme is valid only if we propose. However, if any other party proposes, the proposal is of course not worth the support. Well, let's stop, then. I am here to join in seeing this 2010 mistake, because it was also then in the coalition of the party Desus; and this is the time she advocated for these things to be rectified. But if we fix them further, let us arrange the period from 2010 to 2017. Now we are doing new injustices again, and all those who gave up then, respected, will be second-rate, because they did not receive this supplement because they gave it up; on the other hand, tell me what will happen to all those who now have these seals. Earlier, the minister said – in 1976 we only gave a sign. What's the tag?Oh, my God! The label is a disqualification of the right, Minister. Do not turn words now – we have only arranged the property marking. What, though, is the mark, and who can sell the property if it has a property stamp? But relatives who barely live to pay for it or move out. And it is true, as was said earlier by the other opposition party, that in fact today it is a major problem to sell these properties as well. Are they going to sell it all at a price?Oh, my God! Now you judge this by some Gurs' values, and you know that some of these estimates are funny; because after what is specified, they can only laugh and wave with that paper. The market is the one who decides the prices. And we know that the real estate market is still inconvenient today, and that is why this censorship, which has been established and by which some believe it is a just solution; the question of how fair it is. I hope we're not doing any new wrongs. As it is said, something is a certain property at certain Gurs values, and another is what you actually get for it on the market. But we in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in particular in Article 9, want things to be settled for all those who, in the seven years since the wrong policy, have been in the presence of a protective supplement due to the wrong law, especially in the case of real estate; however, they have settled some things with their owners. This needs to be done in return. Otherwise, it is quite justified that someone will ring your doorbell, Minister, as far as the ministry is concerned, of course; today you say you are receiving SMS. When they say so, what about us?Oh, my God! And they'll be right, it's your policy, you've made a mistake. Fix it. If you have talked for 20 minutes at the time of interpolation about what you do well and how you progress; solve this matter. It's your fault, it was your government, and here you've missed the whole line. You have turned the social state into a state of social support by way of lending. Otherwise, one would have been a little afraid that the next time a proposal would have fallen, that all those who had given them free lunches would have been told to do so to some parents. That's a lot like it. We are talking about the most vulnerable, and now, of course, we are going to solve for the front doorbell because the election bell is ringing and it is likely that all interests must be taken care of until the end, and especially for the individual chairs; but we will not solve the mistake that has caused all of this. If it is true that this matter is to be settled, then 78% of those who have given up have to find a solution; especially for those who have lost something at this time, they must return anyway. This is a comprehensive solution. And I hope that at least this social sense here will really prevail, which we like to stress so much – we are socially oriented; let us see if it really prevails. Or is it for us to solve the problem in its entirety, to pour ashes, even though in this term, when we are not responsible for this law; and to resolve things in return. These seven years have passed, they have given up; on the other hand, we do not have one in the same country practically before a court which is responsible for bank holes and money thefts. What's gotten into these people? We don't know who they are yet. They didn't have to take theirs. They didn't have to take what they stole back. Here we say that it is a solution and that it is a just solution, respected that someone who has spent his entire life working for that property may have been restoring it because he inherited it, if there is some censorship, he will have to return it. Let us make sure that those who have stolen this property return the money; but it will be enough for all; especially those who are on the brink of poverty and not on their own account. And if there's anything in this national assembly, forgive me, it's worth talking about social policy, about 300,000 on the edge of poverty, about hungry children, I've heard before – "Food, hungry children, Christmas, New Year's Eve" Let's get things out of the way, let's not have some emotional outbursts here, but Christmases, we don't have to call the new year; but let's do things the way it is for one country where the rule of law and affairs is completely resolved. If the matter was wrong, it didn't work, today you can see, otherwise it wouldn't have been, then things have to be solved for the better. The policies of the Social Democrats have been hidden here on the entire line, such was their view of the social state – let's give credit to the people, the honest ones, let's take those houses that they've got; but if not, let's keep pushing poverty. I am against such solutions, and therefore I hope that you will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, including Articles 7 and 9, where we want to save things back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word is Urosh Prikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I have been given the feeling at a meeting of the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons that we are completely united, that we are completely united. The result of the vote, which was 13: 0, now I have checked again, spoke in this direction. Now that I'm listening to this debate, I'm not quite sure whether we're talking about the same thing, the same ZSVarPre-E or the same law, which in some way, we can interpret, correct a mistake from the past, correct anomalies, whatever I mean by saying that this law allows a larger and better social state to come forward. I think today is an important day, in fact, tomorrow will be even more important, because we are going to vote on this law that I believe is good. We will also vote on a law that softens some in the past of prolonged rights and gives a larger class or students the possibility of free lunch. And these are all important contributions to the social state. These are small movements, small steps, gradual steps, but still. I estimate that we are slowly getting closer to saying that we are a social state in the right sense. Why was the case not corrected in 2015 or 2016? We could rightly ask ourselves why the law of ZSVarPre, the law we are talking about today, was modified in the period 2012-2014. But back to being so critical, at times perhaps even rude, I don't think it's that productive. It is right to look ahead to the fact that the solutions offered by this law do not result in potentially new injustices and allow people to live the lives they face to live a decent life. And I think that the changes in this law give them a better and more dignified life. It will be true that this law is good if colleague Pojbič praised, even Desus, it rarely happens in this national assembly, but there are also bright moments. Marian, thank you so much for your positive review this time. Remember, too, what I said to you at the time if this government did not come with a change of law — and this government came with a change of this law, which we also support and especially in Desus — then I told you that I would be making a law that would eliminate some anomalies or some inconsistencies from the past. I didn't have to do this, the Ministry has drawn up the law, and I believe that this law will be good regardless of some of the concerns that many of you have here and in this law. In the same breath I say, I would like every law that is adopted to have – I don't know how to say this in Slovenian – an experimental driving, so that for one year it is introduced to be introduced in this introductory age, Probefahrt in German, simply introduces and sees anomalies and inconsistencies. It is then duly modified after this year of introduction, and it is not only Germany that is likely to introduce individual new or modified laws. I would sincerely like, as Uroš Prikl, that no social security benefits should be required, compensation for unemployed persons, cash social assistance. In fact, I would also like that a child allowance should not be necessary because we know that there is only one part of the development transfer and that there is a social transfer in the main part. I would like to see such a rich country so socially aware that they have free, in the true sense of the word, education, health care; no social transfers need to be made. Believe me, there would be no argument as to what is less just, what is fairer, what would be. When we go into a cascade system, a stairway system, we always get to a point where for someone who goes beyond the euro, two or five, it's not fair. And that's also here, that's also in the regression, and the second year is not going to happen anymore, because we're going to give all the pensioners regress. This is similar to children’s allowances when it goes to a percentage of up to 99% of the average personal income per family head. When it comes to a cascade system, it is sometimes very unpleasant or unfair for someone. If you ask me what I think about this limit, this limit of €120,000, I will say the following. I would like to hold on to what was said by the government or by the minister that it will not be practical or will not occur at all when someone is genuinely entitled to social security benefits, and because his house, his house or his apartment according to Gurs' data, I stress - according to Gursa, who are lower than market or economic prices, is above 120 000; that we will also be appropriately determined by the discretionary rights of those who decide on this at the social work centre, and that we will never again, by the new law, do new injustices and new inconsistencies. When I first saw this amount of 120 grand, I said 150 or higher. This data, which was also presented to all of us today in the National Assembly and also presented to the Labour Committee, has somehow convinced me that maybe at this point the actual power ratio is like that, the data is talking about; let it be 120 000. When or if this happens, then let us talk about possible modifications and enforce the discretion available to decision makers at CSD. If I'm talking about sentimentality, about the sentimental attitude of the Slovenians towards real estate, I don't know, because sometimes it's a little bit misleading when it's a topic like that. But I have certainly talked about some cultural pattern and the attachment of our citizens and citizens to my properties, to my houses, to my apartment; it is probably not just the attachment of our citizens and citizens to the walls, to the walls of their housing units, but probably also to the geographical environment. And I think it's right that it is, it's nothing bad. And for this very reason, because it is specific to us – I think we can all figure out together – a specific pattern, followed by ownership of apartments and other properties, I think it is right to adopt such a law. And this is such a law that will allow people not to give up their properties, that because they want to take care of their craftsmen, their children, their grandchildren, they will still be able to keep this property, of course live in it, I believe that they live a decent life; but not, as they say, affect their heirs. Colleagues and colleagues, I believe that where we are united at least in those basic starting points, let us not work there any differences, because man really would not expect the result of 13:0 on the committee, but today we understand this law so differently, so we cepram and go to 2010, and more, even during the period of self-government socialism, in the long run 1976, which has nothing to do with the proposal of this law. I will be extremely happy to support this law in as many as possible tomorrow because I believe it is a contribution to the social state. I am convinced, however, that this is a small pebble in this mosaic, that other policies of this country will still need to be well vented: family, social, economic, employment and so on. Above all, do not look at any things in a purely partial and completely separate way from others. And if we can do that, I believe that we will be able to give people more optimism and wish them a better future. I believe that if we have this complexity and this willingness to do something for people, we should not miss the result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojibich raised his hand, but I don't know. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I ask that you warn Mr Piklo that some in this Chamber know exactly what we are talking about. And we were talking about the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and we have no problem coming to the booth and reading the other point of view. I'd just like to ask you to warn him in this part. Dearly beloved, we continue to hear about why things have not been resolved in some good half-yearly period of another government, by those who are in government all the time since this Slovenia practically exists. I really ask that we be at least objective, and I ask for a warning, because some of us know very well what we are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Prikl heard. Mr. Pojbich, will you discuss it? Then I'd like you to sign in. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! When there is a debate in the direction that at the moment when we adopt this law, not to the extent permitted, we perceive those problems that will happen and which are the result of the adoption of this law. I say that these problems are perceived, and that is why we have also tabled an amendment to Article 9, so that, now that this law is being adopted, this problem can also be settled within this law. The fact is that those beneficiaries who start receiving social assistance or a social allowance under the new law will not have to pay it back. However, those who received it by the time this law enters into force will have to return it. This seems unfair to me, unfair and unfair. And that is what we have seen all of us sitting in this House. And we are not at odds with the part where we adopt the law; but at this point we are at odds in that part, because we could also solve this problem backwards in this law. Why do we need another year, two, three to see what the results of this marriage will be?Oh, my God! No, at this point, we know where the key problem is, besides the ones we're saving. And this is that, in an unequal situation, those who will receive further; and those who have received to this point and who have fallen into this mess in 2010, because the Social Democrats have proposed this law and that coalition has adopted that law. Now I think it's another very important thing. Mr President, since everyone has spoken more broadly, you have probably also found out that I hope there is no one in this House and that the Minister has also not suggested that any of us would consider that those who have much wealth, tycoons, thieves, big thieves, lazy people would be entitled to receive social assistance and a protective allowance. I hope that no one has hinted at this; for no one in this national council is for you to win. We're for those of you who stole the property to bring back the money. And the judiciary should do this together with the police and those authorities, so that the money will come back into the budget, because then we will not talk about having to seize property because it is worth about 30 000 or 40 000 euros and it is either in the Slovenian Gorge or where it comes from, and you cannot sell it. There's no way you're selling it. And then what does such a marking mean to you? It doesn't mean anything to you because if you can't sell that property, there's no money. It's inactive money, it's money like you don't have it. Exactly the same; except you have a roof over your head. And I hope no one thinks that these thieves I've been talking about are beneficiaries of cash social assistance and a security allowance. Why? Anyone who receives social assistance and a social allowance must go through a certain sieve before he is a beneficiary at all before he even gets social assistance and a social allowance. That's why we have social inspection, we have social work centres, we have the Ministry of Social Affairs and so on, which must decide in accordance with the law, who can and who can not be the recipient. And it would be nice for these gentlemen from social work centres to be so organised that they would go a little bit among the people and see who is the one who gets this social assistance and the welfare allowance and who is not entitled. They're just looking through the papers. And we could see that and it wouldn't have happened. It is the opposite of us, no one goes out except us politicians; then we are all guilty of politics. All those who do wrong, who do nothing or do nothing wrong, there is no problem, and they receive a fine salary for nothing. And they don't want to do anything either, because when you don't do anything, you don't answer for anything. But I'm not saying that they're all the same, a lot, a lot of good people and good people, even in government and public administration. But there are at least 10 or 15 % of them that could have been on the road a long time ago. And also in the area that we are talking about today, in the social sector and in social work centres, because we know what this is about, and we know which way. I also want to debate now that we know in the end that things are not as uniform as they seem. Clearly, a system where certain rules apply, the law is that when you adopt it, the one implementing it must, of course, implement this law. It's no good to us if we pass 100 laws here, if those who do it don't do it. And in the end, we will have the same problems again, and again, those who should receive social assistance or a protective allowance will not get it or give it up. Those who are not entitled to it will receive it. That's because the system doesn't work. And the social system is not working, so it would have to replace the Social Democrats long ago and get them out of this national assembly so that they do not have control over the entire social system. From the point to the point, the circle is closed, in one social work centre there are 130 employees of 123 members of the Social Democrats. Such a system doesn't survive anywhere in the world. Nowhere in the world. This is not normal, and then corruption happens, and then it's possible to go fishing in mud and so on. And until we cut it off until we put a story here on the real story, nothing's gonna work that long. We can take 100 gold laws in here, we'll always be targets here, us. But those who take nice things with their left and right hand and ride nice with these or other cars, have yachts there and there, real estate all over the world, and they'll never answer for anything, because our system doesn't work because we have a para-state. We're here so I won't tell you, hooks. I'm ashamed. And from behind, the ones I'm not going to tell us, back-up uncles with their team are conducting, how and what. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose this and we do not and do not want to be part of those with whom these uncles can manipulate in this way. I hope and believe that the next Parliament will be joined by parties who will hit the table with us and say stop. They tore up these sub-systems, which now don't work because individual customers have their own nursery. And that's not right for the normal functioning of politics, of the country and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support the amendment to Article 9 which we have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm listening to this afternoon, which is about some of the subjects of some former disgraces that have not yet been saved. And now I can say that the ministerial team is waiting for me, and in the office we would like to talk about the future strategy of Slovenia. Well, we know history, you've told it one and the other, this 2010 disgrace, the current Rector of the University of Ljubljana from the Desus quota, the current Minister of Social Democrats' quota. My dear gentlemen, from 2010 to today, with the exception of the United Left, you have all been in power. A little bit of ash needs to be poured out, and we could have solved this matter a hundred times by now, not once; regardless of the diversion of some of the political forces you were in power at the time. That's a fact. Unfortunately, the fact is also a great deal of what Mr Pojbič said in front of me. Here we are essentially asked whether the policy and scope of politics in Slovenia is what the Social Democrats say most in practice, to sit on the districts where there is a lot of money, and then distribute your people; but this is also what the right hand did. I remember when Janša’s government fell and people were scattered around the homes of the elderly. Unfortunately, the modern center party has come to this taste, and I hope to argue. And that's the challenge for future policies, which I think some future and different people have to design. If I touch the content of the law now, because there was a very simple explanation. When I listened to the members of the coalition when I listened to my colleague Prikla earlier, it seems to me that I will have to take great care of the revenue side of the budget and also cost-effective, because if half of these promises come true, otherwise we are in the time of emergency, the one who will become the next mayor will have the same happiness or misfortune as in our Maribor, because he will again have an indebted country. But if we go to the story, it seems to me that this operation is forgetting whether 120,000 euros is the right measure or not, whether it's a stunt model or not. To the history of spatial policy or housing policy more than anyone would say, the former regime than the current one, which does not actually have this policy, for some generation of our parents who built these bytes in the 1970s and 1980s, even because the market was not able to offer them apartments then; and somehow we punish them for it. Luke used to talk about the culture of rolling property. No, even because we haven't had a proper housing policy for a quarter of a century, that's what's going on. And it's forgotten that real estate is also a cost. Basically, if you talk hard, real estate isn't that good an investment. Diamonds are also not such a good investment, which their price is falling, although they are still buzzing about the diamonds of some ladies. And now we're laughing, let's say last week I was really thrown out when I opened the work and the Public Housing Fund of the Municipality of Ljubljana brags about how it will make 30 apartments, or it has already, for young people with a slightly lower square because it is young and transient. But that's the kind of apartment culture we have here. This disgrace, this facility on the head of the social transfers towards credit, I have already said many times and I am saddened because Mr Svetlik and his fellow Member Mrak Kopač came from a good group to the FDV that dealt with the quality of life. And then to let these people know, I don't understand it; a colleague, or you or a resident colleague of Svetlik. If I say so, I hope that I will never find out such a turn of events on my own. I also come from an environment where there have been quite a few operations, where there are quite a few assignments on hold. Here, last week, I didn't even have time to communicate with him, and my good friend got laid. This is some state we have to deal with; not that we're playing ping-pong here and going to some overpriced populism. If I touch the stunt. We live in the 21st century, the gentleman from headquarters 90 likes to say so – Slovenia will be digital or it will not be. That's Nezbit's mid-80s trick. Today, to analyze and calculate things, unless we're as bad-ass as we are with that Gurs evaluation, it's not exactly launching a rocket on Mars. And even in cascade models, it is possible to optimize things in a way, whether this cascade model will short-circuit 5,000 people, or whether the cascade model continues slightly differently, with a sense of people. These are some things I'd expect. As an ex-professor, I have to say when I get on the table some bill proposals from the ministries that I'm angry. If these were my students, I'd send them somewhere because they know me very directly. Why? Because things are simply too shaba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba, because things aren't coming out of sufficiently in-depth analysis. We have a table there, usually not two-dimensional. We have some kind of drain at the time, some kind of time series, and already here I could be trying methodologically on whether something was changing in the statistics or not. Then sometimes a doctorate is prescribed, sometimes part of a diploma is prescribed. Very often, because I have this pro-deformation, Madam Minister, when I look at it, I see that no one has even done a thorough reading. And that's insulting to the National Assembly, so you bark about the temple of democracy, I'm terrible here and so on. And in this law and in other laws, I would like some much more serious data to be analysed. To do that, my former students have made a Parlameter. To this day. And let's hire young people who can do that. Think about these properties, when you have pressure on the market, and eventually it will be sold below the price. It's probably not in the people's interest to sell either. Here too, for example, we argued about free legal aid to people or not, which would solve any problem of employment. There are some amounts of some 100 euros in the budget, and it was once again the end of the world. In short, we have a whole series of things here, this disgrace that you haven't fixed, the political distortion, we have a marriage. My friend Prikl is surprised. He votes a lot on the boards, all in favor, and then he shuts up. It comes to light because in this national assembly many do not understand the role of our work. If a law comes from the executive branch, the task of the opposition is what we call fine-tuning in English, that we are careful in detail and that we are amendments in this sense. Our amendments and amendments, I will not repeat them now, the Slovenian Democratic Parties are going this way. They're not pitiful amendments. There are amendments that want to improve this law. There are amendments that want to correct some injustices; and I don't know why and where the wonder comes from. This is a description of our tasks and the works we do here, the rest of us. Is there anyone here? [[…]] Here, the president is from Ljubljana, and we could have this in Celje or Maribor, and we could know a little bit more about the situation there, even in Shentil, or we could go up to Sugarcane, and see Paloma privatize to see the terrain a little bit. It is not only enough that, even I will be a little populism, an Israeli consultant comes to advise the government or Mr Cerar; there is little need to walk around. I'm gonna stop at this point because I said they're waiting for me. I hope that these afternoons, when in such a disgraceful way we rescue some of the shames of Slovenian politics that you have just cooked, will not be over in this decade, or will be as few as possible if I am an optimistic pessimist. I also hope that you will support our laws and the laws of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate on Article 7? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate because there's no more desire. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, 20 December, in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. Members and Members, please take all the material out of the Chamber for tomorrow's consideration of the 27th item to be held without public presence; and in accordance with Article 11 of the Regulation on the protection of classified information, bring only your parliamentary cards with you tomorrow. I am adjourning the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. I want a nice evening to go on!
