ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 17th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Violeta Tomić and Mag. Bojana Mursic by 1:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection. The State Council is at the 20th extraordinary session of 10. 3. 2016 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection prior to publication. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Dr. Zoran Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u2	Mr President, Dr Milan Brglez, thank you for your input. Dear fellow Member, distinguished fellow Members! "Someone you must love, even though the grass, the river, the tree or the stone," wrote the poet. Because people didn't have a response because he ran into a wall, a wall of silence. And this same poet would never write, "You must love someone, even if it's gold, cash or capital." And it is precisely that the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act serves capital, not people who have power under Article 3 of the Slovenian Constitution, that is their fundamental problem. Dear Members and Members! By enacting laws you indirectly exercise the authority of the people and give the Slovenian Constitution body and blood. Slovenian nationalists wrote in the Slovenian Constitution in 1991 that the country by law provides for special protection of agricultural land, that the country is concerned about a healthy living environment, that the State is concerned about the preservation of its natural heritage and that economic activity must not be carried out contrary to public benefit. I therefore call on you to reconsider whether you have established by law an unlimited duration of the environmental protection permit and the possibility of increasing further permissible pollution values in the event of disproportionately high operating costs indeed in accordance with Articles 71, 72, 73 and 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Already, I repeat, already in Slovenia, areas that are permanently degraded are not officially declared to be such. Areas where agricultural land is filled with heavy metals and areas where waste incineration plants are officially non-existent, that is why they pollute air and water and soil every day. However, the industry is operating in these areas in full compliance with the environmental permits granted by the State. Dear Members and Members, I ask you: would you or your family eat carrots and onion and radish and potatoes, in short, fresh vegetables produced near a plant that has official permission to incinerate rubber and bone meal and waste mud and plastics and paints and varnishes and waste oils and other dangerous substances? To whom is such incineration paid — to capital or to society as a whole? In the State Council, we claim that this law, which is alarming enough, only makes it worse. And that's it. Already in Slovenia are the areas affected by the wars, where the silent asbestos killer ruled, where people died, died and died because of the polluted environment. And what will all those in our country who have an impact on the adoption of legislation say to the boy who will ask why the mother is in the hospital and what will we answer the girl who will ask why Daddy is in the cemetery? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u3	The matter was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the Ministry, Madam Minister, distinguished Dr. Christmas, colleague and colleague! The Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and Space is held at its 32nd emergency meeting, on 16. 3. 2016 as a parent working body considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act submitted by the Government to the Assembly, which was adopted at its 16th session. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The State Council's decision-making request was presented by the representative of the Council of State, Dr. Zoran Bozič, who presented the opinion of the Council of State, in which he pointed out that the Council of State, as the key reasons for the request, cited disagreement in particular with the solutions provided for in Articles 7 and 10 of the Law. With regard to the provision of Article 7, which removes the time limit for the validity of an environmental authorisation and thus makes it mandatory to verify the conditions laid down for the operation of an installation every 10 years, the transparency of the whole procedure is reduced in the opinion of the State Council and prevents the exercise of the right to involve and co-decision the public in the extension of environmental permits. The procedure for granting or extending an environmental authorisation has so far been considered by the local population and the public concerned to be actively involved in the decision on the operation or placement of environmentally harmful activities in a particular local environment. The State Council notes that the current legislation allows for the extension of the environmental protection authorisation if the device meets those requirements which apply to the issue of an environmental protection authorisation for a new installation at the time of the decision. This is said to be no longer the case and, in their view, concerns about the proposed legal changes to environmental protection standards will deteriorate further. The State Council has also pointed out, as inadequate, the provisions of Article 10 which allow for lower emission limit values to be established under certain conditions in the environmental authorisation, as determined on the basis of the level of emissions of BAT conclusions, provided that higher limit values would result in disproportionately higher costs compared to environmental benefits. In the opinion of the Council of State, such arrangements are clearly in the interest of capital and not of the protection of the environment and of the people living in it. As a key problem, however, the State Council points out that the provision does not clearly define how and by what basis environmental pollution will be assessed or the level of disproportionately higher costs compared to environmental benefits is not clearly defined. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, stressed that the Government rejects the opinion of the Council of State that the amendment of the law poses a greater risk for environmental burdens, as well as the view that human legislation does not already protect people sufficiently. It pointed out that the legislation in force in the field of environmental protection was fully in line with EU legislation, both for emission limits and environmental quality standards as well as for all other institutions and instruments of environmental protection contained in EU law. All facilities in our country must meet the conditions laid down by EU regulations on environmental protection, which are particularly strict with regard to large combustion plants and waste incineration. With regard to the elimination of the time limit on the validity of the environmental licence, it is explained that the amendment provides reasons for the proposed solutions of a substantive nature and are linked to both the solutions in force and the amended and supplemented solutions in the amendment of the law. These set out cases where an environmental authorisation has to be amended either for the purpose of the operator or the operator of the operation or on an official basis. With regard to the regulation in Article 10 of the Law, where, in certain cases and under certain conditions in an environmental authorisation, a less stringent limit value or measures as set out in the BAT conclusions can be established, it is clarified that such an arrangement is contained in Directive 2010/75/EU itself because of such arrangements cannot be considered as an arrangement which would in itself be of particular interest to the capital and, consequently, contrary to the public interest or protection of the environment and people. In the debate they expressed their support for the request of the Council of State in the Joint Left Group and representatives of NGOs ECO Circle and ECO Anhovo and reiterated their views on the second reading of the proposed amendment of the law on the Committee. With regard to the state Council's exposure to the suspension of the 10-year time limit on the validity of an environmental permit, it has been pointed out by the coalition Members that the applicable law in Article 77 provides for the obligation of the competent authority to review and amend the applicable environmental permit for a particular device whenever its operator intends to make an amendment to the device. As regards the position of non-governmental organisations on the transposition obligation, it was reiterated that a communication from the European Commission was also sent in this regard, which takes the view that such a provision should be adopted in the Slovenian legal order. Following the discussion, the Committee with [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u5	Time [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u6	The majority of the votes of all members 10 and 1 against adopted the opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection is appropriate. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u7	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a bill-maker. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u8	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished guests! Allow me to briefly point out two key amendments to the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, which raised the most opposition during the examination of the law. With regard to the elimination of the time limit on the validity of the environmental licence, I would first of all like to point out that Directive 2010/75/EU does not contain a requirement for Member States to limit the validity of licences. The Republic of Slovenia has been among the rare countries, if not the only ones where such a time limit has been imposed. The Directive only requires the competent authority to verify at regular intervals and, where appropriate, update the conditions in the authorisation if the applicable law in Article 77 provides for the obligation of the competent authority to review and amend the applicable authorisation for a particular device whenever its operator intends to make an amendment to the device. The applicable law also lays down, together with the proposed amendments and additions to Article 78, the obligation of the competent authority to review and amend, in certain cases, the applicable environmental protection authorisation following an official duty. I would also like to point out that we are proposing to supplement the current regulation whereby the competent authority has to review and, if necessary, amend the environmental protection authorisation every 10 years if the environmental protection authorisation has not been amended at that time for any other reason. It should also be noted that the operation of all installations and installations under continuous inspection, in particular devices that may lead to pollution of the environment of a larger scale and installations, is under continuous inspection. The public and the public concerned also have the same rights after amending the current regime as regards participation in the authorisation and modification procedures as in the applicable regulation in accordance with the requirements of the relevant Directives. This means that it is not possible to talk about preventing the right of the public to participate and co-decision in the environmental authorisation process. With regard to the possibility of certain less stringent limit values, the Ministry will be able to set less stringent emission limit values than determined on the basis of the BAT conclusions emission level only if a set of conditions is met. Once again, I would like to point out that the regulation itself is difficult enough to prevent environmental destruction in Slovenia. Additional arrangements are also planned as an amendment to the IED Regulation, so that more detailed guidance is also provided for the preparation of the assessment of disproportionately higher costs and the environmental benefits. But it is true that the commission's instructions on this subject are not yet available. Otherwise, it is already laid down in the law so that it is not about automaticism. The operation of the device will not cause significant pollution of the environment, a high level of environmental protection as a whole will have to be maintained and the limit value must not exceed the emission limit values prescribed under Article 17 of the Law, which at the same time means the values set out in the various Directives. The Ministry of its decision shall rely on the results of the monitoring of the state of the environment, which shall be carried out continuously, in accordance with the rules. The operator will have to make a specific assessment showing that achieving emission levels related to the best available techniques, as described in the BAT conclusions, would result in disproportionately higher costs compared to environmental benefits due to geographical location or local environmental conditions of the device or its technical characteristics. The assessment will have to be made in accordance with BAT reference documents and other documents published by the European Commission in relation to the setting of emission limit values and technical measures. It will not be possible to set less stringent emission limit values if this jeopardises the achievement of environmental quality standards or if the device is located in an area declared by the Government to be degraded. However, it is an extremely important fact that less stringent limit values will be set in a process of issuing an environmental permit, in which, as party participants in accordance with the law, interested public representatives who can use all legal means are involved. During the public hearing, different interpretations emerged concerning the transposition of Article 15/4 of the Law on Environmental Protection and Treatment in the State Council and the National Assembly. When transferring the Directive, the ILO referred to the instructions on how to transpose the Directive, which was published on the Commission’s website. The document shall indicate that the transposition of this Article is compulsory. Information from a non-governmental organisation came to the public later in order to give the Commission the view that the transposition of this Article is not mandatory. In view of the various information and interpretations, the ILO asked the Commission for an explanation received on 23 March and by which the Commission confirms the obligation to transpose this Article. The Commission further states in the communication that the communication is not an official position of the Commission, since only the EU court has the power of official interpretation of the Board of Governors. At the same time, I would like to say that some who do not find it difficult to pollute space [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u9	Time!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u10	they were not correct in interpreting the necessary transposition of this Directive. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u11	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the United Left Group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable assembly, distinguished guests! The novelness we are about to vote on today is not only inappropriate for adoption, it is shameful for the Ministry, which itself appoints the Ministry of Environment and Space. In the United Left, we have been alerting everyone since the start of the hearing in the National Assembly. News under the cover of transposition and correction of some of the previous ones, let's say awkward, EU transposition directives bring provisions that radically reduce the standards of environmental protection in our country. In the United Left, we have twice tabled amendments to the law, by which we wanted to clear up such disputed provisions, we have been voted with arguments, since that is not true, because you have no idea. The State Council voted the procrastination veto to the law without a single vote against, I repeat, without a single vote against, and with virtually the same arguments as before the United Left. During the re-examination of the law on the Committee, the same arguments were presented by environmentalists from civil society organisations who strongly oppose the adoption of this law for the second or third time, if considered a public hearing. However, the Ministry and the Coalition are deaf for reasoned objections. Last week, the ministry published a short report, mentioned by the Minister, that the European Commission had confirmed to them that the transposition of the provision was necessary. In this case, the competent authorities may set less stringent emission values if the assessment shows that achieving emissions with the best available technologies — this is a famous BAT — would result in disproportionately higher costs compared to environmental benefits. Unfortunately, the letter was not published by the Commission and the European Commission also sent a published letter to the ECO Circle. While the Commission partially endorses the Ministry's statement on the urgency of transposition in its letter, it also recalls Article 193 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which allows countries to maintain stricter environmental standards. This could be referred to by Slovenia and these controversial provisions would not be transposed into our legal order. I'm sorry. However, whether the transfer is necessary or compulsory, which of course it is not, it is clearly wrong. The disputed Article provides that the decision to reduce emission standards should be based on an assessment. However, who is responsible for preparing the evaluation is not clearly provided for in the Directive. It is logical that the assessment cannot be made by the operator of a device which has an associated financial interest in that assessment. The law also states that "the decision to reduce emission standards will be based on an assessment by the operator of the installation", Madam Minister. The amendment also reduces public participation in environmental licensing procedures, even though the ministry is vehemently denying this – even today – this moment before me. The new permits will be permanent. The new permits will be permanent. Pika. What does that mean? Therefore, if the public has been able to take part in the issue of these licences at least every 10 years, it will now be once and never again. In the event of a change in the environmental permit, the Ministry will only be competent to decide on the type of change in operation. As a result, whether the change to the environmental permit is such that it also requires the inclusion of the public. In short, the objective of deleting the time-limit for environmental permits is obvious, deliberate exclusion of the public. In the United Left, of course, we will once again vote against the adoption of this law, but at the same time we call on other Members and Members to show that you are not the voting machine of this government, that you care about the clean environment, that you are reading the Constitution, because this amendment is unconstitutional in Articles 71 to 74, as Dr Bozič said, and that you do not support such amendment of the law. But since I have some time left, I have to say to the public that I am deeply saddened that there are 52 of us here officially, some of them went out, in short, of such an important subject, if we count, listening to a largely ordinary quorum. Such is the attitude toward environmental issues in this National Assembly. We will vote against this type of amendment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u13	The text is by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, Representative of the Council of State Dr. Christmas, dear colleague and colleague! That our living space is closely intertwined with nature and human intervention, many people are only aware of it when they are faced with a fact that tells us what kind of environment we live in and how we care for it. Prior to one such fact, the Council of State made a request for a re-decision on the adoption of the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act. In Nova Slovenija, we advocate as quickly as possible the placement of facilities into space, but the environmental field in this case is an exception, requiring special care in assessing their placement in space or operation, especially when it comes to higher environmental burdens. This is no longer just a question of whether or not the transposition of the European Directive is compulsory in all parts, nor is it a blind comparison with other members of the European Union. This is a responsible assessment, it is a responsible assessment of the specificity of our environment, of Slovenian unwinded narrow valleys, which require particular care regarding the extent of negative environmental burdens. Let's just look at a few facts. The most exposed areas, including the Soča Valley, Zasavska and Celje Valley today represent demographically endangered and degraded areas. Although degraded, it is only informal, despite all the indicators that show that there is already great harm to the health of their inhabitants, and especially to the health of their inhabitants. In these places, people get sick and die more often or more quickly. Some cement plants, such as the Anhovo cement plant, are becoming only incinerators of hazardous waste, by the way, in neighbouring Austria for incinerators of such waste are subject to four times more stringent conditions than in Slovenia. Since 2009, we have not had a report on the state of the environment, although it should be produced every four years. In view of the above, the Government’s argument that the administrative burdens are being lifted is irrelevant. Given that environmental protection is increasingly exposed to different risks, the extension of the environmental permit cannot every 10 years and must not represent an excessive administrative burden, not for the competent ministry in charge of the procedure, nor for the operator of the installations or establishments or the operator of the activity. There is an increasing number of environmental disasters with long-term consequences, and such a permit is also important in terms of the public, which must be able to cooperate and influence its living environment in these processes. It is also essential to exercise effective control over the competent supervisory authorities. This aspect is often the biggest problem in practice, and public confidence in these institutions is also declining. Public interest in environmental protection is extremely high and it is therefore essential to maintain current legislation. The end of time can be established in countries where environmental awareness is at a high level and not in Slovenia, where, unfortunately, different interests prevail too often. For this reason, it is also unacceptable to allow for lower emission limit values than are possible with the best available technologies. In New Slovenia, we will not oppose the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act, nor will we support it. There are too many open questions that are inseparably linked to our greatest good — a healthy environment. It is simple logic that nature is the only good that we are given, and it is our duty to maintain it in such a way that it will also guarantee to future generations the constitutional right to a healthy living environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u15	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Your Honor! As we have already pointed out in the regular part of the legislative procedure with regard to the position, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that the explanation of the law, which clearly states that the transposition of the directive and the resolution of certain inconsistencies that have been made in the past at the time of the transposition of the European directives, is not in accordance with the entire text of the law. A few of us are surprised that the law, which only transposes European legislation, raises so much dust in various environmental associations, as we have received several opinions that have opposed the planned reduction of environmental standards. In particular, the proposed abolition of the 10-year period of validity of the environmental protection authorisation. Thus, the Ministry proposes that the removal of administrative barriers and burdens be removed from the mandatory verification of the conditions laid down for the operation of the plant or establishment every 10 years. The reason for the removal of administrative obstacles and burdens is an unpleasant surprise to us in the Group of Unbound Members, since this is not an unnecessary procedure. The 10-year period for renewal of the authorisation is a solution that forces both the Ministry and the user to maintain these devices in an appropriate manner and gives civil society and other interested public sufficient space to actively monitor the implementation of the prescribed conditions for the operation of the installation or establishment. Of course, we have warned the competent minister of that fact. As I have already mentioned, this has also been pointed out by various environmental associations, as well as by the competent Commission of the State Council in its opinion, but of course the veto of the State Council is also referring to this same fact. The answers we received to our concerns unfortunately did not satisfy us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u18	Dear President, dear Dr. Christmas, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The National Assembly shall meet at its 16th session, on 4. 3. 2016 adopted a new law on environmental protection, which largely notifys environmental directives of the European Union. The Council of State then adopted a request for a re-decision on this law on the grounds that certain legal provisions pose an increased risk of environmental burden. The opinion of the State Council mainly follows the comments of non-governmental organisations which object to the legal provisions adopted, in particular, to the work relating to the termination of the period of validity of the environmental permit and the derogation from the best available technologies, so-called BAT conclusions, in cases where this would constitute an incomparable higher cost for an investor without having a significant negative impact on the environment. With regard to the termination of the period of validity of the environmental authorisation, it should be pointed out that Article 21 of the IED Directive, which states that a Member State must take measures to verify the conditions of authorisation at regular intervals. Before the amendment of the law in question, it was considered that the operator of the activity should notify the Ministry of any proposed change, on the basis of which the environmental permit is also being updated accordingly. The Ministry of Environment and Space shall also carry out checks on environmental permits for a maximum period of 10 years. At the same time, any installation or establishment under continuous supervision shall be the competent inspection service. In doing so, it should be stressed once again that the amendment of legislation is without prejudice to or altering the role and position of the public in decision-making processes to amend the environmental permit. The second provision, which was identified as controversial by non-governmental organisations, is the possibility that the Government may set less stringent limits as provided for in the conclusions of the complaints. The setting of lower standards will only be possible in cases where this does not jeopardise the achievement of existing environmental quality standards, when significant environmental pollution is not caused and a high level of environmental protection as a whole is maintained. Different interpretations emerged as to whether part of the Directive relating to emission reductions is mandatory or optional part of the transposition into the Slovenian legal order. With regard to this dilemma, the Ministry of the Environment and Space has obtained the opinion of the European Commission, which clearly shows that the implementation of this content is binding on all EU Member States. Members of the Modern Centre Party had the opportunity to re-examine different opinions, to obtain additional information and explanations in order to assess as objectively as possible whether changes to the Environmental Protection Act really pose risks in the field of environmental protection. We have found that this is not the case, so we will re-support the Environmental Protection Act in the proposed form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u19	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. My procedural concern is an insult to the Council of State. The lady said that they were mainly referring to civil society. This has been made very clear by the representatives of the Council of State, by the chairman of the Committee, on my part, that the Council of State has voted unanimously and that employers are also against the amendment of this law. So please don't insult the State Council. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u21	I ask that you do not abuse the procedure in order to discuss during the presentation of positions where procedural positions are not being set at all. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u22	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law basically follows the European Union environmental directive as well as the abolition of certain unnecessary procedures. Furthermore, there are no clear and precise criteria in the content itself to give clear legal definitions. If I look at the sequences below, the possibility of less stringent emission limit values than those contained in the BAT conclusions. The bill allows the Ministry to set less stringent emission limit values if this does not lead to significant environmental pollution and maintains a high level of environmental protection as a whole. The limit values shall be determined in a manner where the operator of the installation demonstrates that taking into account BAT conclusions would result in disproportionately high costs compared to environmental benefits due to geographical location or local environmental conditions. This regulation of the possibility of lowering requirements, in our view, is too loose and offers the possibility of different interpretations. The time-limited validity of the environmental protections shall be abolished below. This regime is in line with the European Union Directive and the problem in Slovenia is that the competent supervisory services do not carry out their tasks in accordance with the applicable legislation. An environmental permit shall not be issued before the building permit has been obtained, but before the start of operation. Acquisition of an environmental permit before the start of operation shall only be granted to facilities which are not built under the Construction Act. What, though, are those buildings or buildings that are not built under the Construction Law or, if so, are there really questions about whether those objects and devices need environmental restrictions? In short, it's a misunderstanding. The issuing of exemption licences. In these cases, however, the specification of the exemption is inaccurate or unclear. Of course, below, in the case of unclear definitions, it is weakened at the level of environmental protection standards. We will not support such a bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u23	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. All in attendance, all in attendance! Let me say at the outset of the presentation of the position of the Desus Group that we will once again support the proposal of the Law on Environmental Protection. We believe that the State Council's claims to reduce environmental standards do not stand the test. On the home working body, where we first considered this proposal, the National Council for Local Self-Government and Development Commission expressed support for the bill. I repeat, the commission is not the State Council. Only one day before the opening of the regular meeting of the National Assembly, where a second hearing of this law was envisaged, the Council of State sent a letter stating that the proposal did not support the law. This opinion was ignored by many, however, because a positive opinion on support for the amendment of the law had previously been made public. That is why I appeal to the Council of State to finally coordinate with each other so that their commission does not speak one thing and the Council of State does speak another. That is why I have a proposal and I appeal to the President of the National Assembly to ensure that, in the future, the individual Commission of the State Council will not be allowed to give its own opinions on the national working bodies of the National Assembly and on the meetings of the National Assembly at all, but only on the Council of State. This inadequacy and non-compliance must be addressed as soon as possible. We are also surprised by the allegations that the proposal for the novel significantly reduces environmental criteria. If this were true, we would expect employers whose representatives are part of the Council of State to support such a proposal. According to them, this would mean that they would be able to operate with a more dirty technology, which is cheaper. I am convinced that the financial benefits are always overcome by environmental concerns. In the end, this is also evidenced by the fact that the largest contaminants are small firehouses, because, by the power of poor social conditions, people are smoking everything that comes under their hands, regardless of what they cause to blow up, but also, as is known, that the great polluter is also traffic. If the law in force had as high standards as the novelty proposal, then in the last few months we would not regularly exceed the daily permitted concentrations of PM-10 particulate matter. The fact that we cannot keep our eyes closed is that companies can be forced to comply with environmental legislation and that you cannot or very difficult for an individual. In the area of environmental protection, we also encounter the duality of some self-declared environmentalists. Here I am thinking mainly of certain prominent people from the local environment who do not or do not understand that Slovenian factories are no longer among the largest polluters these days, because they have invested or had to invest substantial money in environmental rehabilitation and have upgraded their cleaning facilities in accordance with Slovenian and European environmental standards, which are one of the most stringent in the world. Some others, however, urge some members of the coalition to vote in favour of the Council of State just because it is popular. Let me close with the issue of limiting or reducing public participation. What makes you think that? Nowhere in the novel is public participation reduced by any provision. Nor shall standards be lowered due to the termination of the 10-year period of validity of the environmental protection authorisation. If you had read at least the statistics, if you didn't already believe the words of the Ministry, you would have heard the following information: in Slovenia there are about 200 such devices that need an environmental permit. For each smallest change, operators must submit an application to the ARSO. Last year, 116 applications were received at this agency for a smaller or larger modification of existing installations. A total of 263 controls of so-called IED devices were also carried out last year and some 80 measures were taken. The country therefore closely monitors compliance with environmental standards, which are fortunately at an enviously high level in our country. According to our Group's assessment, these standards will remain at such a high level after the amendment has been adopted, so we will once again support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u25	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u26	Look, Mr President, if we complain about each other, how we debate, that's what we are. The insult of the State Council, the insult of the guests who are here, as it was in this position, is beyond measure. I repeat my procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u27	This is the second time you have used procedurally to discuss it. Yeah, for expressing your point of view. Procedural can't be used for anything like this, so I'm giving you a warning. You've got a procedure, dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u28	Mr. Chairman, obviously we don't speak the same Slovenian. My procedural proposal was that the National Assembly ceases to offend the State Council and the guests of the National Assembly. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u29	During the presentation of the views, no procedural proposals shall be used to discuss or express their views or to disagree with what others have expressed as the position of a particular group. In the views of the parliamentary groups, as presidents themselves and other chairmen, we usually do not intervene, unless it is really a matter of, I don't know, promoting intolerance and I don't know what. Everything else is an integral part of those or the opinions of individual parliamentary groups themselves and they have the right to express their opinions in the way they wish to express them. There is nothing else I can decide about as President. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The Environmental Protection Act, which is being amended, regulates environmental protection against burden as a fundamental condition for sustainability of development in the Republic of Slovenia. In this context, the law lays down the fundamental principles of environmental protection, environmental protection measures, monitoring and information on the environment, economic and financial instruments for environmental protection, public service for environmental protection and others, related to environmental protection, issues. The new law before us primarily transposes the European Directive on the Management of Major Accidents, which includes hazardous substances, whose implementation deadline has already expired 31. 5. 2015, which is why we have already received from the European Commission an official reminder in which the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly is required to comply with the obligations set out in the Directive. At the same time, the novelty also transposes the other requirements of the European Environmental Liability Directive relating to the prevention and recovery of environmental damage. We are largely satisfied with the fact that the law imposes a compromise solution on the operation of installations, which also eliminates concerns or risks that, when this law is replaced, the obligation to obtain an environmental permit may, at the latest, allow for a situation where the facility is already built and the investor would not obtain an environmental permit, thereby causing both the environment and the investor significant and irreparable damage. We are therefore pleased that at the same time the solution allows the investor to be flexible enough to decide, in view of the investment process, at which stage he will initiate the environmental authorisation procedure, either in parallel with the construction permit procedure or after the construction permit itself. This amendment of the law thus reduces the possibility of unnecessary environmental burden when the device was already built and the operator would not obtain an environmental permit and would require additional interventions into the space and the environment. In order to monitor more effectively the compliance with the environmental authorisation requirement prior to the start of construction, it is further defined when construction is considered to have started and the obligation to register the start of the construction of environmental inspections is also laid down. Since we believe that the amendment of the environmental law adequately allows for sustainable development in the Republic of Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the law by a majority in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u31	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the market of financial institutions, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u32	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The main solutions to the draft law stem from the transposition of European directives, namely the changes to the so-called transparent and prospectuses of the directive and the new directive following the required capital, which is passed into the draft law in the work relating to investment firms. The proposed Slovenian legislation also adapts to the European regulations on central depository companies and the so-called CRD Regulation, which also concerns investment firms in some parts. In addition to adapting Slovenian legislation, the European proposal also contains other solutions that do not stem from the European legal order, namely changes to the conditions for the establishment of a small stock exchange company, the amendment of the provisions on persons responsible for the correctness and completeness of the information contained in the prospectus, the definition of the conditions for the withdrawal of debt securities from trading in an organised market, the elimination of inconsistencies in the bankruptcy of commercial companies, the addition of the provisions of the ZTFI on the provision of investment services by another brokering company, the amendment of the provisions relating to the stock exchange and market market in order to clarify the application of the provisions of the law governing banking, the determination of the cooperation of the Securities Market Agency with the competent authorities of third countries and the amendment of the provisions relating to another newly adopted Slovenian law, the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, the Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers, the law on the enforcement of securities law on the enforcement of securities. Given that no amendments have been proposed to the draft law for this meeting, the Government, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes that a third section of the draft law be held at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u33	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 21st meeting, on 9. 3. 2016 was treated as a parent labour body by the Government's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The Committee received the following additional material to the draft law: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the comments of the Information Officer, the letter from the Ministry of Finance to the comments of the Information Officer, the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council and the amendments tabled on 3 July. 3. 2016 and proposal for amendments to the Committee of 8 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the meeting of the Committee, the amendments to the draft law had been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups to each article of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legal Service and the representative of the Securities Market Agency attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and solutions of the bill. She said that the aim of the bill is to transpose several directives, adapt domestic legislation to regulations and address the shortcomings and inconsistencies of the existing law. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service made specific comments on the individual article of the bill. The comments of the service were taken into account in the amendments tabled. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered the amendments tabled to the article of the draft law. The Committee adopted coalition amendments and amendments to Articles 76, 88 and 96 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u35	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The European Parliament and the Council have also addressed, inter alia, their directives and regulations on issues arising from the integration of European financial markets. Of course, Slovenia is also involved in the single European financial market and therefore welcome changes that contribute to uniting rules and improving transparency in the functioning of the European financial market. In particular, the law brings solutions that originate from European directives or which constitute an adaptation to European regulations. This is, for example, a requirement for a stable regulation of the internal management of investment firms with a clear organisational composition, effective risk management procedures and appropriate internal control mechanisms. However, uniform European supervision is ensured in accordance with the proposal for a law, in particular by the obligation of the supervisor to send final information on the prospectus to the European Securities and Markets Authority or to shorten ESMA. The law also brings some bureaucratic burdens, which, of course, we particularly welcome Christian Democrats. This is the removal of the mid-term management report as an incentive to focus on longer-term objectives and to extend the deadline for semi-annual accounting reports, which introduces a little more flexibility in operation. We also support the determination of a higher fine of up to €10 million for legal persons or up to 5% of annual turnover or 2 times the amount of profits obtained by the infringement. However, for members of boards or supervisory boards, the fine shall be EUR 5 million or 2 times the amount of the profits obtained by the infringement. In New Slovenia, we would like to see the fine set to at least 3 times the amount of profits generated by such an infringement. Christian Democrats, while we lack more simplification of the obligations of publishers, would make the market more attractive to small and medium-sized publishers. We are also encouraged to do so by the European Commission. Nevertheless, we assess that the proposal for a law represents a step forward in ensuring the integration of European financial markets. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a new Law on the Market of Financial Instruments.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u37	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u38	Dear President, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments was based on the transposition of the three directives and the adaptation of Slovenian legislation by two regulations. As a result, this means addressing the shortcomings and inconsistencies of the current law on the market in financial instruments related to European legislation. The financial crisis in 2007, 2008 revealed major weaknesses in financial supervision, in individual cases as well as in relation to the financial system as a whole. During the crisis, there were shortcomings in cooperation, coordination, consistent application of Union law and trust between the competent authorities of the Member States. Unacceptable risks related to the regulation of financial institutions have also been identified. In order to address the regulatory shortcomings that emerged during the crisis, a large-scale reform was needed. Part of this is also the simplification of the legislative provisions of the Member States and the introduction of uniform prudential rules for institutions, which is essential for the functioning of the internal market. What does this implementation mean for the Republic of Slovenia with regard to participation in the European financial surveillance system? Firstly, the Securities Market Agency has so far not had a legal basis for applying the European Securities and Markets Authority guidelines and recommendations. This amendment will make the guidelines binding on the supervisory authorities as they will be made available through the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. It's the other way around. Cooperation in the European financial control system shall be regulated and it shall be transferred to the national legal order that the competent authority shall, in carrying out its tasks, take care of the convergence of supervisory tools and supervisory practices in the application of laws. On the basis of that competent authority, in accordance with the principle of loyal cooperation set out in the Treaty on European Union, it shall cooperate in a spirit of trust and full mutual respect, in particular in providing relevant and reliable information on the movement between the competent authorities of the Member States. It shall also participate in the activities of the European Banking Authority and, where appropriate, the College of Supervisors. It's like a third. This is an area added for the sake of greater global connectivity and electronic commerce. Investors shall have access to markets in any country using computers or other electronic devices from their home country. In order for the competent authority to exercise control over the actions of investors from their country, they need information from the markets in which they are trading, otherwise they cannot successfully conduct the control procedure. In order to safeguard the integrity of the financial markets, the supervisory authorities have merged with an international organisation that brings together the supervisory authorities of the countries of all continents. They help each other to exercise control over financial markets through the provision of information, so the articles of the proposed law allow the Securities Market Agency to obtain the information it needs in supervisory procedures and guides them in order to protect the integrity of the financial markets and to provide such information. Only through the successful exchange of information can the supervisory authorities of countries successfully protect capital markets. In line with the above-mentioned and written additions to the provisions of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, as stated, this means the transposition of the three directives and the two regulations of the EU, the modern centre Party Group assesses the necessity of implementing this European legislation into the Slovenian legal order and will therefore support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u39	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Financial Instruments. Supplements and amendments are mainly due to the transposition of the EU Directive and the Council and thus the domestic law is being adapted to the EU and Council Directives. The amendment and the supplement itself address certain shortcomings that have proved to be a significant part of the risk in the past. The fact is that the financial crisis in 2009-2010 has triggered certain procedures to reduce certain risks by means of additional regulation, exacerbate certain business activities. In the SDS, we are confident that this change and addition will have a positive impact on all stakeholders on this market, both by reducing risk and by increasing transparency itself. From all that said in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not oppose the proposal and the amendments to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u41	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u42	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a law aimed at transposing European directives, adapting domestic legislation to European regulations and tackling identified shortcomings and inconsistencies in the existing law. The financial crisis has revealed major weaknesses in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. Monitoring failed to anticipate negative macroprudential developments or to prevent the accumulation of excessive risks in the financial system. The supervisory model at national level was found to be lagging behind financial globalisation and the interrelationship of European financial markets where many financial institutions operate across borders. During the crisis, there were shortcomings in cooperation, coordination, consistent application of Union law and trust between the competent authorities of the Member States. In order to establish the stability of the financial sector, the EU and its Member States have taken various completely new measures. A major reform was needed to address regulatory shortcomings. In particular, the aim of adaptation to European regulations is to address deficiencies in the management of liquidity risk, the identification of capital, the credit risk of a counterparty and the discretionary option of Member States under the various directives. Uniform requirements for securities settlement and uniform organisational requirements and supervision for central depository companies shall also be laid down. Some identified shortcomings and inconsistencies in the existing law, such as the amendment of the conditions for the establishment of a small brokerage company, the definition of the conditions for the withdrawal of debt securities from trading in an organised market, and the elimination of inconsistencies in the bankruptcy of trading companies, are also addressed. In view of the interim changes in Slovenian legislation, the provisions relating to the Law on Non-materialised Securities, the Law on Out-of-The-Ballast Resolution of Consumer Disputes and certain other laws should be amended. It is also necessary to amend the provisions relating to the stock market and the market market in order to clarify the arrangements and to apply the provisions of the current Banking Act in a more meaningful manner. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposal for a law will make a significant contribution to the unification of supervision of financial markets and to remedy the shortcomings in the existing law, so we will unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u43	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, where we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. We note that the financial crisis has revealed the great risks posed by financial instruments for issuers and holders. This issue has also been addressed to a large extent by the European Parliament in its work with several resolutions adopted both before and during the financial crisis. He called for more related European surveillance to ensure a truly level playing field for all participants at Union level. The European Council also recommended in its conclusions, following its meeting on 18 and 19 June 2009, the establishment of a European system of financial supervisors, to be composed of three new European supervisory authorities. It also recommended that the system should improve the quality and coherence of national controls, strengthen the control of cross-border groups and establish a uniform European rules to be applied to all financial institutions in the internal market. He stressed that the European supervisory authorities should also have powers to control credit rating agencies, and called on the Commission to make concrete proposals on how the European financial stability system could play an important role in crisis situations. These are the orientations that have been addressed both in the European Parliament and in the European Council and, consequently, for a very long time, that is, in 2008, 2009 this debate in the European Parliament and the European Council started, well, in 2016 we are implementing, if I may say so, these orientations also in national legislation in Slovenia. The main solutions that this law brings are, in particular, improving internal controls and increasing fines. Thus, investment firms must establish stable internal management arrangements, including a clear organisational composition, risk management procedures and appropriate internal control mechanisms. The provisions of the law also apply to banks if they provide investment services, but of course the Bank of Slovenia also controls banks in this area. However, the tighter penalties for violators are imposed by the Securities Market Agency, which may impose a fine on the stock exchange house up to twice the amount of the profits obtained by the infringement and 10 % of the total annual turnover. The fines for members of administrations and supervisory councils are also small, reaching up to €5 million or twice the amount created by the infringement. Fines limited to EUR 2 million are also provided for individuals who abuse the rules of the financial instruments market. These are the main indicators of the content of this law in order to try to establish as much control and responsibility as possible in the functioning of financial markets. The bill also tightens the rules that motivate business leaders to achieve short-term results. This removes the obligation of an interim management report and thus motivates investors to think in the long term. Some administrative obstacles are also being reduced to companies, introducing a single extended deadline for the publication of semi-annual accounting reports to 3 months after the end of the reporting period, and the law provides for even greater transparency in the payment of investments and for the harmonisation of the conditions for a central clearing company, in accordance with the European Regulation. Important novelties are also brought by law in the field of prospectuses for investors. The new rules provide for a clearer definition of persons responsible for correctness and completeness of information on prospectuses and also lay down the obligation to send final information on the prospectus to the European Securities and Markets Authority. We are confident that all these measures will have a very good impact on the further development of financial markets, and therefore we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u45	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! Members of the United Left will be abstained from voting on this law. The main reason is for this proposal to transfer to the market mediation area a system of out-of-court dispute resolution, which, in our view, is a step backwards in relation to the system we now have. The new law was therefore strongly criticised by the Slovenian Consumers' Union. We would need a clear law setting out three simple things: firstly, the type of organisation that can perform this service, secondly, the specific definition of the competences of this organisation, and thirdly, the free procedure for the consumer. In contrast, we have a fully liberalised system where this service can be provided by practically anyone, even though we have a solid consumer organisation that can perform public service. Instead of knowing exactly what the outcome of the procedure will be, we now have several types of services: from completely non-binding opinions to binding decisions. After all, the law also allows the charging of services and limits the lower limit of the application. In some field laws, such as energy, the old system has been preserved. The 68th Article of this Law, however, only mechanically transposes a system that was weak. This law transposes the three Directives of the European Union. As usual, directives are passed on mechanically, without the Government's judgement whether a solution is good. Instead of a content explanation, the Government only states that the Directive is being transposed. This approach seriously impedes the work of the National Assembly, which must be based on the professional basis to be provided by the Government. Fortunately in this case, at least what we saw did not happen, for example, in the Environmental Protection Act or the Insurance Act, where the Government used the European regulation to introduce a worse solution than the directive itself had foreseen. In particular, I am referring to the granting of exemptions for the operation of industrial pollutants under the Environmental Protection Act or to the tightening of requirements for workers' representatives in supervisory boards and insurance administrations under the Insurance Act. It is no wonder that a veto was imposed on the Environmental Protection Act and a constitutional complaint was lodged on the Insurance Act. The removal of half-year-old company reporting is, in our view, questionable from the solutions set out in the Directive. While this is a good aim, the pressure on administrations should be reduced to achieve as much short-term profitability as possible and the medium-term dimension and long-term direction of business increased. However, in our view, this objective will not be achieved until the relationship between the company and the owners is fundamentally changed. The only way to do this is to strengthen the right of employees to co-decision. I fear, however, that holy workers and trade unions will be less familiar with the situation of the company than they are now due to the elimination of six-year reports. There are some solutions in the law that are not related to European directives. One of them is, for example, the mitigation of the conditions for the establishment of a small stock exchange house. Currently, the minimum capital is EUR 125 000, with the exception of only 50,000. With this law, the exception goes down to EUR 25 000 without any explanation. We have not seen in the United Left that the problem in Slovenia would be too few stockbrokers, much too many of them, especially banks for which it is not a basic business at all. In our view, for the safety of small shareholders, it is necessary to provide higher minimum capital and, in the interests of market transparency, it would be better if the market were less fragmented. From this point of view, the proposal we have before us is counterproductive as it will lead to even greater market fragmentation and even greater transparency. Finally, let me draw attention to the arrangements for the withdrawal of trading obligations. The arrangement is insufficiently precise and can be harmful to smallholders. If shareholders decide to withdraw, they shall conclude this at a meeting which has its statute and clear rules on voting. Already there, small shareholders are usually squeezed, but they have at least a few basic rights. The holders of bonds, such as state bond holders, may also be more than ten thousand, and the law does not provide for the procedure by which this decision is taken, nor does it protect the rights of smallholders. Due to the adoption of this law, the Slovenian financial system will not improve, but it can be further fragmented, so we will not support the United Left of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u47	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is first of all a proposal for a bill on amendments to the law on tax evasion of accounts. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jožet Horvat, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! In the New Slovenia Group, we have already drawn attention to inappropriate solutions, which have only burdened the economy and consumers. However, they did not bring the burdens and incentives most needed in this situation in Slovenia. Members of New Slovenia we are very much on the ground, on our regular monthly field visits throughout Slovenia. We visit economists, societies, local communities. From these visits we draw suggestions for our political action. We also see how legislation works in the field, in life, or how it does not work. We closely monitor the effects of the introduction of tax boxes and the first result of our findings is the novel which is before you, colleagues and colleagues. We are counting today on a constructive debate and on listening to arguments in the government or coalition and supporting the solutions that we are proposing, or perhaps even improving them. So we already have an analysis, and we have a solution. The proposed law pursues the objective of regulating the situation of voluntary firefighting companies and small taxpayers in relation to the use of online tax box lines, namely, for these two categories of taxpayers an exemption from the mandatory use of online cash in cash transactions. These debtors will, however, continue to conduct their cash operations in the same way as has been regulated by cash transactions so far, i.e. through so-called virtual tax registers or through a book of accounts, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Tax Procedure Act. The second objective of the bill is to properly regulate the position or obligations of customers or consumers with regard to the taking and storing of accounts and the submission of the invoice to the authorised person. The main innovation brought by our law is to provide exemptions from the obligation to use online tax warehouses for two categories of entities, namely voluntary fire companies and small taxpayers. The latter include those who have not exceeded or are likely not to exceed EUR 50 000 per year in the last 12 months, whose annual tax turnover is governed by the rules governing value added tax. For these two categories, the current regime for mandatory use of online tax warehouses is an excessive administrative and financial burden. We all appreciate the sacrificial work of firefighters and firefighters, who, in the event of natural disasters, also risk their lives to help fellow citizens save property and save lives. In our view, it is right to make it easier for them to do business in a way that will allow them to devote more and better to their training and training tasks. The proposal follows the principles of proportionality and administrative simplicity. That is why we propose to abolish the fine for a buyer who does not submit an invoice at the request of an authorised person. We believe that the purpose of the law is not to punish or at least not to punish, but to establish a new tax culture, which can be achieved equally effectively or even more effectively only with a reminder. Members and Members of the New Slovenia today expect a constructive debate and I believe that, with common powers, with a rational approach, taking into account what is going wrong today with the implementation of the Law on tax clearance of accounts, we can do something good for our citizens, especially those who are in debt. It's not good to wait a year for some scientific analysis. We've already got the tests. Anyone who walks with his eyes open around the world, through Slovenia, knows what goes wrong. And there's a lot of things going wrong with the Law on tax clearance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u49	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u50	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! When drafting the law on tax clearance of accounts, we provided, in accordance with the requirements of the interested public at the time of public consideration of the proposal, that the obligation to tax confirmation of accounts was imposed on all debtors who were obliged to issue invoices in accordance with the rules on value added tax and to accept payments in cash, except for narrow exceptions. The system of tax attestation of invoices has been applied as a requirement since 2 January of this year, so that a comprehensive analysis and evaluation of the functioning of the system and its effects will not be possible until 2017. Why? This year we can analyse the effects of the value added tax calculation, but for a comprehensive analysis it is also necessary to take into account the calculation of the activity tax for natural persons and the calculation of the corporate income tax for legal persons to be submitted only in the following year. The fact is that this part of the analysis will be more negligible. Key analyses are based on VAT accounts that are possible in May 2016. Why? As a result of the fact that the first accounts will be submitted by the end of April for the period January-March 2016, the three-month VAT liability will be issued. The proposal to exempt taxable persons with annual tax turnover of less than EUR 50 000 would constitute an exemption from precisely those taxpayers who are generally more likely to receive cash for the payment of goods and services and, as such, are the main addressees of the tax clearance obligation. In 2014 in Slovenia, among all taxpayers for corporate income tax and income income from the activities of 70% of taxable persons who did not exceed EUR 50 000 of annual tax transport would be exempt from the obligation to tax the accounts. This obligation would be lifted by almost half of all the debtors currently included in the system of tax clearance of accounts. This would make the system in place lose its purpose and make a concrete analysis of the existing situation impossible. The achievement of the basic objectives of the law, namely the prevention of the grey economy, the detection of labour violations and the black and rationalisation of the operation of the tax authority by establishing a risk analysis system, would thus be impossible to implement the law proposal. The second part of the amendment concerns the exemption of fire companies and the applicant does not explain in any way why fire companies should be exempt from the obligation to confirm accounts. The question is whether in this case the constitutional condition of justification for the different treatment of non-essentially different debtors is met. With regard to the proposed abolition of the fine in the event that the buyer does not take the account, it should be pointed out that the buyer has an important role to play in preventing the grey economy, and the measure against which the proposed amendment opposes it is only one of the measures taken by the Financial Administration to promote awareness of the importance of issuing and taking accounts. It is also irrelevant that the issue of a reminder is possible and is also principal in the existing legal text. Your Honor! In view of all the above, the Government considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration and we propose not to support it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u51	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, proposer, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on tax clearance of accounts was passed on from the SMC pre-election programme to the coalition contract and from there to last July. We consider it an important step towards limiting the grey economy and ensuring a level playing field between the debtors. At present, we do not have more detailed information to suggest a prudent introduction of any improvements, so the changes made by the applicant cannot be supported at this stage. The proposer specifically highlights three areas: fire companies, debtors reaching up to EUR 50 000 and a criminal provision relating to buyers. Let's start at the first. Voluntary fire companies shall be financed to a large extent by voluntary contributions and donations from legal and natural persons after writing to the applicants. It should be reiterated here that the current Account Certification Act does not provide for additional liability of the debtors in the case of grants, memberships or grants. For such transactions, accounts are generally not issued and, consequently, there is no so-called fiscalisation. Nor is the tax clearance of accounts in cases where funds or payments are made from the budget of the State, municipalities and various organisations, as these are generally indicated directly from the transaction account, i.e. the donor, the sponsor or the holder of the tender, to the beneficiary’s transaction account. The purpose of the law on tax clearance of accounts was not to restrict or make humanitarian or charitable activities more difficult, nor did it intervene. We have focused only on the commercial part of the activity and improving tax control. Therefore, as already mentioned, in the case of grants, memberships and grants, the treatment is the same as before, also in the case of sponsorships and comparable payments for services when they are transferred directly from the payer’s transaction account to the transaction account of a voluntary firefighter company. The change has therefore taken place in that part of the activities of voluntary fire companies, which are of a commercial nature and compete in the market, for example firejoys and other occasional events, with which companies, inter alia, provide additional funds for their operations. In such cases, the obligation to issue invoices was in force prior to the implementation of the Law on tax clearance of accounts, and this is by no means a novelty. The key difference is that, from now on, the accounts are either automatically validated in real-time financial administration at the same time as the issuance, either using the bound account book and subsequent validation. And now, more specifically, to organise the firejoys that the proposer specifically points out. In addition to the automatic controls on the issuance of accounts carried out on the financial management server, the tax clearance of the accounts has undoubtedly created some additional pressure to improve transparency and the organisation of transactions within the debtors themselves and in the case of associations, also in relation to their members. Inevitably, hundreds or thousands of visitors to a happy event lead to a high frequency of cash transactions linked to admissions, food, drink and sale of many other items. In the light of the diversified chain of stakeholders crucifying from catering service providers, entertainment programme providers, sound, lighting, stage, etc., it is reasonable to expect the State to ensure that the entire cash flow and thus the payment chain of fees, services and goods are properly recorded. It would probably be irrational for firefighters to have all the infrastructure to carry out firelights, which are usually organised once a year and in the practice of society provide the bulk of equipment only at such events, from benches, tables, stage, sound, lights to bar. The same applies to the establishment and operation of a central sales post at an event where, normally, one or more cash registers sell coupons or cards that can then be cashed for services or goods at the event, since it is difficult in practice, without the central control of the organiser over the cash flow, to provide a fundamental rule in the business that must be provided for each time properly cooperation with different stakeholders. Clean accounts — good friends if we sum this part up. The rules for voluntary fire companies have not changed the rules for voluntary fire companies by adopting the Tax attestation Act in the main part of the operation relating to membership fees, grants, grants and transactions from the transaction account to the transaction account. However, for a part of the business, which is by nature a market activity, the reasons mentioned by the proposer only cheaply do not justify the introduction of a distinction in the exercise of control over the conduct of cash traffic. It is a fact that the activities of societies or institutions would be difficult to separate from activities of parts or other legal forms, as there is a frequent overlap between profitable and non-profit activities. On the one hand, small voluntary firefighters may be companies, on the other, perhaps Auto-moto links with their companies, to third different companies for the organisation of events, to the fourth capital company involved. The range therefore ranges from some 100 euros to several millions and activities from one to countless. Therefore, the unilateral and partial exemption of a particular type of organisation or activity could inevitably lead to a distortion of conditions between different organisations. The time has passed when some of the hosts, as well as some other commercial activities, were operating within societies or institutions and thus unfairly competing with the usual guesthouses. A major change in this area has already been made by the Ministry of Finance, which was adopted a good decade ago. This has also drawn a clearer line between profitable and non-profit activities, regardless of what the surplus or profit is spent on. By enforcing the poorly thought-out exceptions that we are considering today, we could get help from those who would like to play by the rules rather than those who would like to relieve them. And if we put the proposal directly from theory into practice. Perhaps the next concert of the world-form musician in Stožice would have been organised as a fire news by the NSI Members, at the confirmation of the proposal. Furthermore, the proposer strengthens the application of the Law on tax clearance of invoices to those whose turnover exceeds EUR 50 000 per year. There are several problems and uncertainties in this regard. In this group there are a number of risk debtors addressed by the Law on tax clearance of accounts. The automaticisation of the control work of these debtors allows the financial administration to focus its data analysis solely on those debtors who, on the basis of concrete data, prove to be potential violators. This makes it possible to significantly improve the organisation of the work of inspection services and the lower burden on those debtors who operate in an exemplary manner. The financial management could also, by means of a new system, increase the number of inspectors on the ground to verify the unfair competition represented by the rainforests. There was a lot of talk about these at the time of the adoption of the Law on tax clearance of accounts, and this can now be addressed more easily and better by inspectors who were previously overloaded by the control of treasury traffic in a way that can be substantially faster and more comprehensively carried out by Furs' server. When reviewing the structure and number of issues and initiatives, it can also be observed that a number of debtors who should have made their accounts in order to carry out at least part of their activities so far have not done so in accordance with the legislation in force. Indeed, it is often true that the Law on tax clearance of accounts for certain activities has established the obligation to issue invoices, which of course it does not. The issue of invoices is largely governed by other rules, such as the Value Added Tax Act, which were adopted by the end of the 1990s. The law on tax clearance of accounts governs only what it contains on behalf, namely the validation of accounts, namely those issued by the debtor in the course of a cash transaction. In the last few words about penalties for customers. The penalty is merely symbolic to a certain extent for the buyer, since in the case of a sentence it amounts to EUR 20 if it is settled within eight days. The inspector also has the opportunity to give a warning under the Code of Criminal Procedure. This one has no financial implications for the buyer. According to the data available for once, inspectors have been given mainly warnings or warnings so far. In the first months of its entry into force, they have, as announced, taken the role of assistants to the taxpayers in fulfilling their tax obligations in terms of referring to changes and have thus taken an additional step towards building a future relationship between the debtors and the financial administration, which is increasingly looking at the debtor as a partner. At present, the more precise effects brought by the tax collectors are still a little premature to talk about, as data are only available for the monthly VAT debtors for January 2016. For February, they are expected in the coming days; in mid-May, data will be available for the three-month VAT debtors, which will certainly allow for a significantly better insight into tax effects. The last important package of data will only be available in April 2017, as the data of those who are not taxable for VAT purposes will then be available and only annual reports will be submitted to the Slovenian Public Records Agency. The counter on the financial administration's websites shows the following picture: the number of digital certificates taken is almost 70,000, the number of tax-confirmed accounts is almost 250 million and so on. For the time being, it is only possible to conclude from this data that the system set up by the Financial Administration worked well. Response times are measured, as promised, in hundreds of seconds. A free mini-tax box was established and a number of initiatives have been put in place for buyers and debtors, ranging from prizes to implementation aid and a large media awareness campaign, the integral part of which is aid provided by tax inspectors on the ground. So there is no more accurate data. However, the first indications already show that the system has been set up justly and that it works effectively. Also a good year and a half applies a transitional period which allows the use of the bound account book. At this point, we do not expect a much different or richer discussion than it was at the time of the adoption of the Law on tax clearance of accounts. Nevertheless, the initiatives we are taking in these days are being monitored and examined with all seriousness. And if proposals in the future are also supported in concrete data, of course we will engage in the search for any improvements to the regulation. In the SMC Group, we will not support the proposal of a group of NSI members for the reasons presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u53	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, welcome! Let me begin by stressing that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group had opposed the introduction of tax registers from the outset, as we were aware that they would not solve what they should have done before the introduction. That's the problem with the grey economy. All of this, of course, is shown after the introduction. Tax payers don't solve the problem of not issuing bills. Those who have not previously issued the invoices shall not issue them after the introduction of the tax registers. They also did not register their activities. And these individuals pose a problem because they do not pay contributions, do not pay taxes and represent unfair competition for all those who do their work honestly. Let me remind you that by the Council of State, the Law on Tax attestation of Accounts was vetoed. However, despite the veto by coalition Members, the law was confirmed before the summer parliamentary holidays and thus entered into force at the beginning of this year. After the introduction, in particular by small entrepreneurs, by associations, by individuals carrying out complementary activities on the farm, we can hear a number of dissatisfactions and widespread dissatisfaction. Taxes for them are an extremely high cost. The cost is much higher than what the government mentioned at the outset. This is not only about the cost of purchasing the tax box, but also about the cost of updating software, permanent maintenance contracts for software and so on. At the same time, the introduction of tax registers also means more red tape. The number of liabilities to be used by the financial administration, according to the assessment of the tax administration, is much lower than the estimates originally made. Where there are reasons for this, the best financial administration or the Ministry of Finance knows. The figures also most likely indicate that many individuals prefer to use the bounded account book, which is also possible by the end of 2017. These practices have even been used by some large companies at the time of the introduction of the tax register and have started to use the bound ledger of accounts. Slovenia is very unevenly developed and access to the Internet is not possible everywhere, which means that many entrepreneurs are forced to use a linked account book because coverage with the internet in the area in which they operate is not available. Coverage with the Internet throughout Slovenia should, however, be the basis and prerequisite for further action, but the Government has decided differently. It is also necessary to ask about the proportionality of such a measure in the light of the costs incurred by the Financial Administration for the modernisation of equipment, the cost of the work of a number of inspectors walking on the ground, the costs of businesses and the economy and other costs, and on the other hand, if we compare this with the revenue we are promising in the budget for the introduction of tax boxes, we can see here that this is a huge imbalance. Whether or not we will be able to talk about more revenue in the budget as a result of the introduction of tax boxes, we will be able to see for ourselves in the coming months. The first data this year are not encouraging, as the inflow from value added tax in February is lower by EUR 20 million than it was in the same period last year. We are talking about a reduction of more than 10%, despite the fact that the inflows of value added tax from imported goods increased during the same period. This means that consumer activity has increased during this period. At the end of 2015, the number of independent entrepreneurs also decreased. Only in December for 277. Many individuals also move their activities abroad. However, many who today use bound accounts intend to stop their activity if a more reasonable legislative solution does not occur. Some individuals, however, simply stopped doing business with cash. Tax registers have proved to be harmful as they cause high financial costs and disproportionate administrative burdens for the debtors. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has tabled in the parliamentary procedure an even sharper proposal for the amendment of the Law on tax clearance of invoices, which closes the tax write-off, which we will talk about at any of the future meetings. The proposed initiative we are talking about today is setting exceptions for two categories: voluntary firefighting companies and small taxpayers, i.e. those whose annual traffic does not exceed €50,000. The proposed amendment is certainly a step in the right direction and at least a little easier to burden small entrepreneurs and certain groups of civil society, so we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u55	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues! The story of tax checkouts has quite a history. It has been a long way since the beginning, from the design of the idea, from the drafting of the law, from the coordination of this with various factors to the actual implementation or implementation of the regulation itself at the beginning of this year. Since then, it has been a very broad public, and we in the Desus Group are very curious about the first assessments of the effects of the operation of the tax registers on the economy itself. It is already known that serious and concrete data, rather than analysis and findings, cannot be reached overnight, but we need some time. But we don't want to, and I have to make this clear here, with some prematures, that I don't say hand-to-hand action to solve matters, but I do do harm. On this occasion, I do not want to say at all that the bill proposed by colleagues in New Slovenia is a handball move, but in our opinion it is somewhat premature, so we will not support it in the Desus Group. We speak many times in the context of the grey economy about tax boxes. Of course, they are linked to the grey economy alone, but they are not the only measures to curb the grey economy. It is of priority that we first and foremost clear up in our heads and permanently eliminate the so-called national sport as to how to overwhelm, bypass the country or its tax and financial authorities. Of course, we all want to know what new marriage brings us and what it really means in practice. In doing so, I should point out two facts: firstly, that the tax returns after 1 or 2 January this year are present and do not constitute any additional or new accounts for those debtors who have already issued invoices, either for the supply of goods or for services rendered, and secondly, that means that the buyers will have an additional burden, an additional obligation to take an account after or after they have been paid for the service. Even so far they had to take it and there was nothing unusual about taking an account for the goods of the technical field, for televisions, not least for mixers as kitchen appliances, because a possible guarantee could have been established on the basis of this account. So we took the accounts, and we did so before the introduction of the so-called tax registers. A few of us are also disturbed by the fact that again and again in the media there is a fact that if, from now on, you have to take the accounts – we have taken them before, we are likely to be in the future, and today it is no different. So nothing new happened. However, since it is generally considered that self-confidence is not, the financial ministry has also had to cut down certain propaganda mechanisms, not least with a prize game, to further accelerate this mentality among buyers or those whose accounts are also intended for the final stage. In the Desus Group, we still support tax receipts and believe that, due to possible changes and improvements, we cannot just throw the rifle into the corn and thus overcome the initial purpose of effective collection of public levies, in particular by rejecting greater traceability and control over transactions made. Perhaps on this occasion too many of us have been asked why we have abolished the so-called SDK. Many of us are trying to call him back today. However, ours and probably the other parliamentary groups are referred to by people who have a type of discomfort through the introduction of tax collectors. In particular, these are small taxpayers and the administrative complications they face or face in this regard. The problems of the latter, especially pension societies, are not and must not be overheared. We will take into account all possible differences and problems that arise in practice in the field of law enforcement, but not in a way that would result in any unequal treatment of the debtors or discrimination. We do not want to trigger the domino effect with premature, premature measures, and some stakeholders are put in an unfavourable or inferior position. We would like to point out that in our Group of Members, that is, in the Desus Group, immediately after an analysis of the situation, which we will not wait for six months or more, we will further pursue the search for appropriate solutions, possible changes, possible corrections, and in particular, if it turns out to be necessary, we will also address the improvements to that Regulation. Therefore, there will have to be substantial reasons for any amendment to the existing law, and certainly not without specific and precise data. For the sake of all the said Members and Members of the Desus Group, we believe that the proposal for a law before us is not suitable for further consideration and that we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u57	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u58	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After a three-month period of validity of the so-called "tax registers" law, we have before us a proposal to amend it. The idea is that it is a minimal correction, an exception which would exclude only the smallest taxpayers from the system of clearance of accounts, who are expected to be subject to disproportionate costs and disproportionate administrative burdens. A more detailed review will reveal the actual state of the proposed changes. More than 200,000 companies are liable in Slovenia to corporate income tax and income from activities. More than 140 thousand of them have generated 50,000 euros or less in the last year. This means that the Slovenian economy is an economy of small businesses. From this, it can be concluded that in the view of the applicants, approximately 70% of all invoices should be exempted from the controls just introduced. Social Democrats to such flat-rate assessments, which do not have their basis in the first quarter and in the report and estimates, cannot be confirmed. In this debate, it is essential that we ask at least key fundamental questions before making a decision. Has the introduction of the tax register made it necessary that immediate action and immediate change be necessary before publication and analysis of the basic data? Are the costs and red tape associated with the tax registers really that high? At least on the last Committee responsible for agriculture and nutrition, we have been able to find that this is not the case when we seriously deepen our costs. And the third time. Does it make sense, before we actually have data for the first trimester, to amend a law that has not yet been measured and cannot be determined with credibility? The primary purpose of the tax registers is to ensure that invoices are issued for goods and services in the Republic of Slovenia. Control over all debtors does not simply mean achieving this objective, which is likely to be agreed by the applicants. It also means control over other infringements, over gray, if you want, black economy. The information obtained creates the possibility of joint, more effective control of inspection services, not only in the absence of invoices, but also in the case of black work and other infringements of labour law. In other words, the law indirectly allows higher standards of protection of workers' rights and control over the proper functioning of our economy. Therefore, in addition to failing to issue accounts, we must take into account the fact that black work is one of the biggest segments of unfair competition, while honest entrepreneurs and honest employers have the greatest burden. Therefore, if the applicants are sincere, their objective should be precisely reversed: the data collected on all those operating in cash should be properly checked and prevented not only by the widest not only the narrowest set of infringements of our good business environment. This was also a clear position of the majority of economists who supported the proposal for a tax system on condition that it would not allow exceptions. This is the only way to achieve that there will be no avoidance of obligations. The mass involvement of citizens in checking the invoices issued also shows that most people want a fair system and that they are willing to do something about the integrity of our system, the economic and tax system. At least they participate in large numbers in the scanning of accounts and thus contribute to active control. Therefore, the answers to the questions raised above are in fact clear. No, there was nothing drastic about tax receipts that would justify hand-to-hand action and an immediate change of legislation. No, costs and bureaucracy in Slovenia are in the framework of a bearable, small liabilities that issue little cash accounts even have the opportunity to confirm their accounts for free. Last but not least, we do not have to decide on such important interventions without having previously carried out a thorough analysis of at least the first trimester. The implementation of the law is also accompanied by a special group of Social Democrats to be expected and, if necessary, will, after the first trimester, propose appropriate amendments to the law itself. As already said, when we can operate with at least real data and with the concrete effect of the law. At this point, however, we believe that there is no need to introduce new exemptions to taxpayers for tax clearance of accounts, especially at a time when the established system has just begun to work and is ultimately likely to produce results. Our basic definition of proposed legislative changes is, however, the following. The introduction of an exception as wide as proposed would mean that the divorced whole system of law and actually return to the starting point. It would mean canceling our work so far. In our view, the existing solutions, including the possibility of using the FURS free application for small debtors, provide sufficient opportunities for efficient and non-hypertensive red tape. Of course, like everyone else, we want to make it easier for firefighting companies and other similar associations of citizens and citizens, but what we are also proving by our actions is that, despite the importance of societies in the public interest, we must not allow exceptions to the issuance of accounts that are in the interest of everyone, because we want to pay taxes fairly and equally to all citizens. However, facilitating the business of all societies can also be regulated by other sectoral legislation. Therefore, the Social Democrats will not support the proposed amendments to the Tax Certification Act, but we are inclined to hold a serious debate after the first quarter and, on the basis of real data, to identify the need for possible changes to the sectoral legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! The introduction of tax registers has been very upsetting to the public and, in our opinion, to a certain extent also justified. In the light of the fight against the grey economy, we supported their introduction in the United Left, but the implementation and implementation of the law have so far proved to be non-lifelike. We can therefore express a few sympathys to the New Slovenia proposal and we will not oppose it, but with a major change, thus eliminating the commitment of up to €50,000 to the debtors by means of a counter-tax pursuit and thereby evaluating measures against the grey economy, we cannot support it either. The prevention of the grey economy is important not only from a public financial point of view, but also from the easier prevention of social dumping, where employees pay the highest price. In the case of the grey economy, it is not only about not issuing accounts, but also about later fixing or changing accounts. The single recording and traceability system is therefore the only effective solution in the fight against the grey economy. I'm sure the tax system has brought an additional burden, and it's human that I'm not harmed by the year. However, we can say that it is not an excessive cost and that for small taxpayers a transitional period is possible until the end of 2017, where a linked account book and confirmation are sufficient via the online application. This transitional period also allows for the introduction of other solutions if this proves necessary. The New Slovenia proposal would abolish the obligation for everyone with a tax return of less than EUR 50 000, but this means 70 % of all legal persons' incomes. In this segment, the conditions for the grey economy are the strongest, since, compared to larger business entities, there are not even any emancipated automatic systems for the issuance of accounts. At the same time, it is also very common in this small sector to deal with cash. It is eloquent that the proposals of New Slovenia are not approved by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia, in particular in terms of equal treatment of all business entities. At the same time, the small sector, which cannot achieve such productivity as the larger companies, is already excessively large and, therefore, we think it would be pointless to further encourage it by such tax means. We agree with the Government's view that the potential changes and adjustments to the system of tax clearance of accounts should be based on an integrated analysis of the implementation of the law, which requires fair and universal solutions. However, some major shortcomings have already shown up from the beginning and are very clear. In certain cases, the Financial Administration has interpreted this law quite freely, for example in school bazaars, where it is clear that voluntary contributions are being collected rather than buying and selling in the proper sense of the word. Furthermore, FURS disproportionately treated farmers with complementary activities. Such anomalies are the responsibility of the Government and the Ministry of Finance, and here we see no reason to wait, these anomalies can begin to disappear immediately. The proposal we are considering today highlights another such weakness, namely voluntary firefighting companies. However, this is not just a matter of firefighting companies, but we should seek permanent solutions for all societies that act as non-profits, and in particular for those who act in the public interest, not least in terms of exemption. But, of course, firefighting companies have also remained, such as pension, humanitarian etc., performing important social functions, often those for which the State should take care, but this would in principle need to finance additional taxation. The companies are based on a voluntary basis and, in addition to the administrative burden on such societies, their broader social functions and their attitude towards the role of the State are an additional reason to support them and to find a suitable solution for them, as I said before, even in terms of exemption from obligations. The third part of the New Slovenia proposal is the abolition of the fine for a customer or recipient of a service that does not take over or keep an account. As we have already warned in the adoption of the law, the penalty can be very disproportionate, especially in cases of small amounts in the account. From this point of view, it would also make sense to consider changes. In addition, the Government's position, which highlights the dissuasive aspect of sanctioning with a single fine of €40, also mentions activities in the direction of tax reporting for young people, such as the preventive action of Youth and Taxes. It would make more sense to raise tax culture instead of promotion actions and sanction citizens and citizens to see and feel the results of the taxes collected by the State. In particular, this means: instead of financing the military and weapons, instead of disassemblying social services, investing in public transport, reducing waiting lines in health care, enabling scholarships, education for socially disadvantaged people. If we followed such changes, tax culture would certainly be at a much higher level. If you know what you’re contributing to, if you see something good in seeing your taxes on the other hand mean the quality of a service, such as public transportation or public health, you will also make it much easier to pay your tax obligations to the State. We therefore expect the Government of Mir Cerar to make a major effort in this direction, but we also point out at this point that we have not seen any convincing reform on the revenue side of the budget, which would at least place a fairer tax burden on us. The fight against the grey economy and the tax validation of accounts may help in some ways to improve the situation, but there are still far greater problems in the area of taxation, for which the Ministry of Finance knows well that they exist, as we have been reminding them since the beginning of the mandate. In the United Left, we will be maintained in the vote on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on tax clearance of accounts for these reasons. We call on the Ministry of Finance to remedy the shortcomings that have been shown in the implementation of this law in the most pressing cases, such as school bazaars, complementary farms and society. At the same time, we also call on the Ministry of Finance to start thinking as soon as possible towards a more fair distribution of the tax burden in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the Ambassador of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u62	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we say that the emperor must be given what is Caesar's, but the emperor must be proportionate and just. We also stand in the position that we all have to pay taxes, but let them be as low as possible. The introduction of the tax registers punished the fines. It is a measure against the right and those who conscientiously fulfil their civic duties. We can't prosecute the tax registers to black or intensively disable the grey economy, because those who don't want to issue the accounts don't do it, even though they can have the best connection with the financial administration. Everyone in this Chamber is most likely to agree that while preventing the grey economy is an important objective, we differ on how to do this best in practice. In Novi Slovenija we opposed the adoption of the law on tax confirmation of accounts, and we noted the non-life consequences of individual types of debtors. The fact is that the introduction of online tax registers is practically unnecessary for all taxpayers operating in cash, and in particular does not achieve the desired objective. If we look at specific cases. For example, small taxpayers, i.e. those who do not reach the amount of EUR 50 000 of annual tax transport and are not also liable for compulsory entry into and payment of VAT, must also have a tax return under the Value Added Tax Act. Taking into account the fact that these entities accept cash only a few times a year in their operations, and perhaps only a few thousand euros a year, tax receipts for them represent an important administrative and bureaucratic obstacle and nonsense. This is a number of complementary activities on farms, in particular for smaller employers. The purchase of a new computer device, including Internet access, is a disproportionate burden for them. For example, do you imagine a farmer who is specifically required to keep records for each registered complementary activity and a dam that comes home after a full day’s freeze, where he still has a long-term introduction of accounts into the information system? And another nonsense. How do I prove to customers that it is not necessary to issue an invoice for basic agricultural products, and this must be done for the products of the complementary activity on the farm or, if I am even more specific, it is extremely difficult to understand that a farmer can sell potatoes without having to issue an invoice while for asparagus, milk or curly ones he must issue an account? Since we like to refer to neighbouring Austria more than once, let us see how they are doing there. Their tax warehouses are not directly linked to the tax or financial administration, such as the Slovenian authorities, and nevertheless prevent the deletion and modification of data. Simply put, this is something similar to what we had before these tax boxes were introduced. In addition, many of the activities in Austria, which belong to us under the additional scheme, are included in the basic activity, which means that the farmer does not have to be accounted for. Another nonsense that has snuck into this law on tax clearance of accounts. For machines that we know practically on all corners of buildings, machines that give drinks, food, sandwiches and the like, well, these kinds of machines do not require a tax box, which is understandable. On the other hand, machines offering services require a tax box. You can imagine, in some building, you have an automatic machine that gives you water and a sandwich, and on the other hand, an automatic machine, a massage chair that massages you. The one with water and food doesn't need a tax box, and the one who massages you, of course, needs a chair. Both machines allow accurate records of how many products or services have been sold. Let him know who can! I'm sorry, not that one machine requires a cashier's office, but the other one doesn't. If we're going to volunteer fire companies. Yes, absolutely, we have proposed this proposal because it is inanimate that the requirement for and for the operation of firefighters' companies is to be applied for and for their operations, in particular for the organisation of firemen's pleasures, where this is a unique annual event. Those – I can say from practice – who we work on such fun, we know the practice, and we know that the tax collectors will literally eliminate half of the firemen’s funnels, they will be no more, because the firefighters’ one-year event will not simply decide to purchase the tax registers. To later confirm tax accounts, however, the mission is impossible. One who has ever worked on a firehouse knows that a hundred or 200 customers can serve within an hour, making such a matter virtually impossible. And most importantly, all of us at such events work or work for free and all of the ransom is a common public good. That's for getting better fire safety equipment. You may find this pointless, you may complain, but it is a non-life measure that could be very easy to resolve differently. We do not claim that firefighters can be exempt from all obligations, but we are talking about tax receipts for firefighters' societies being pointless and stupid. However, we propose flat-rate taxation. Please tell us what the state would lose if it were for firefighting events or if I were to go a little further, because, last but not least, we have a first reading today and there are still possible additions and changes if, for all companies acting in the public interest, instead of the tax registers, some types of lump sums are prescribed, depending on the number of participants in each event. Thus, such companies would know in advance how much tax they will pay in relation to participation in the event, and would not need any tax receipts, no complex administrative and financial procedures, but simply – society in the public interest organises an event, the rate for participation in the event of up to 500 people is such, up to a thousand people are such, society pays and the whole matter is closed. The state gets its own, and firefighters can continue to carry out fireflies peacefully. Do you know what tax collectors will do in practice? In addition, those who are very conscientious and precise in firefighting societies — I myself have been to a number of general gatherings of firefighters’ societies, you know that after a new year, the general assembly of firefighters’ societies — and firefighters say, at least half the time that I was there, that they would no longer decide to be a fireman. They will not buy tax bills, but cheaters do not hope or desire or want to do what is right. For those who, however, will decide for the fun of fire, but I am sure that the vast majority of the firemen will do them in black, they will risk and wait for them to be made by the tax inspector on the day of the firejoy, when they will all work for free, all of them will come and go because they work without the tax box. Then we'll see. Today is the time to act. But in May, in June, the season of fire fun begins, and in that moment you will see and remember that what you have said today is absolutely true. However, to insist on your positions and not be able to allow at least this first reading of the law to go through the procedure and complete it in accordance with your comments, it speaks for itself. We have not run out of solutions, we have offered a concrete solution against such tax warehouses, which would provide the country with revenue while making it very, very and very easy for the fire companies to operate, as well as for the events with which they finance their activities. If I go to another proposal, which we also propose in this law, it is the imposition of sanctions on customers, i.e. those who do not take or hold the account after the purchase has been made. Taking into account the purpose of the law, this is to prevent a grey economy, then we cannot punish the buyer for something that the seller is primarily obliged to do. If we're trying to make things more lifelike, it doesn't make sense to punish the buyer for not taking the bill. There are various reasons why someone doesn't have an account when they get out of the store. He could've lost him, too. But if we are already writing out special prize games, that practically citizens are "screeching" some craftsmen, entrepreneurs and so on, if we already have a system to scan individual accounts – why not turn the story around? Not that it is important to store and scan accounts in order to ensure that citizens carry out some kind of inspection control instead of inspectors and "spring" vendors, but that citizens are encouraged to keep their accounts. And that is, if there is a technique to scan an account to check whether this account was actually made by regulations, then this technique can also achieve that these scanned accounts are considered as a special tax relief to people. Not that we force people to store accounts, not to be penalised with a fine of €40, but to prescribe such legislation that they will be rewarded with tax relief for keeping the accounts. That's what we think is the right approach. All of this shows that in Novi Slovenija we were right when we opposed the adoption of the basic law on tax confirmation of accounts in this law. Since all of you, including the coalition, stress the important role of small and micro-enterprises, then we can most likely rightly expect you to listen to our proposal at least at first reading and complete it with your proposals in second. We stress that the exemptions proposed do not mean avoiding the payment of taxes. These entities and voluntary fire companies will also manage their future cash operations by means of so-called virtual cash registers or through a book of accounts, the same as before. That we did not just go to fire companies, but we wanted the matter to be as few exceptions as possible and as integrated as possible, we simply wrote down the law so that the taxpayers do not need entities that are not taxable. This framework would also include a number of those societies in the public interest that you spoke about today and are not written here. Last but not least, those who today, as you have foretold, will object to this law, then you must also ask yourself what you will say when pension societies remind you again that these tax collectors are nonlifeless and that they have problems with them. I wonder what the answers will be then. In New Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the Law on Tax Confirmation of Accounts, which we have written. We cannot go beyond the fact that the state cannot and must not impose disproportionate burdens in areas that should be burdened to a greater extent. We have also said that we are committed to flat-rate taxation, which is for taxes that are more favourable to everyone and that cause everyone less problems. However, we believe and assess that the grey and black economies cannot be effectively suppressed by tax receipts, because those who do not want to issue invoices will not in the future, either, but we can effectively pursue the grey and black economies by reducing tax burdens and taxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u64	Good-bye. Dear colleagues, Vice President, Secretary of State! The main purpose of the Law on tax clearance of accounts, tax rebates, as the Government says, is to reduce the scope of the grey economy. Is that really true? According to the inflow of tax revenues in the first three months of the introduction of tax registers, unfortunately, it does not. Tax revenues, especially VAT revenues, are even lower this year in the first two months than they were last year. On 1 July 2013 we introduced registers in Slovenia, which must have such software to prevent the erasure of accounts. The only difference between the register and the tax box is that the FURS collects data immediately with the help of the tax box, while the register store provides for inspection or multiple transfers of data. We have already warned about the weaknesses of the introduction of tax registers when it comes to the adoption of the law. I'll repeat it one more time. Tax registers have brought new costs to the taxpayers. First of all, I can tell you, at least from two entrepreneurs, that this cost them 5,000 euros, even though we've been hearing about the cost between 300 and 500 euros. It is unclear on the basis of which the state will collect an additional EUR 50 to 100 million, as announced. Companies that operate in a cash-free manner must also have a tax box. Why should buyers be punished if the tax authority immediately receives information on the transaction? You've really reduced your sentence from 400 to 40 euros, yet. Internet connections — where they are not available, they need to re-use bound accounts, even though they used registers before. What about Fursa’s information system — will he transfer so much information or process, as promised, all data? As she may have already said, we agree that the buyer must not be penalized with a fine as provided for by law, because this says that nothing has really changed and the supervisory function has still been transferred to customers. According to our assessment, tax collectors do not solve the appropriate problem of issuing an account at all. Now to the law that is before us today. In 2014 in Slovenia, among all taxpayers for corporate income tax and income income from the activities of 70% of taxable persons who did not exceed EUR 50 000 per year were exempt from the obligation to tax the invoices. All taxpayers for corporate income tax and income from activity income were little more than 200 000 in 2014. Out of this, more than 140 thousand have created less than 50,000 euro of taxable transport. According to the law, taxable persons who are voluntarily included in the value added tax system would also be exempt from the obligation to tax the invoices, since they have been identified for VAT purposes, although they do not exceed the threshold of EUR 50 000 of taxable turnover in the last 12 months, and do not consider themselves a small taxable person under the VAT regime. Thus, the proposed taxation of a threshold to which tax certification is not compulsory would lead to the fact that almost half of the taxpayers identified for VAT would not be liable to tax confirmation of invoices. Does it even make sense to have a tax box?Oh, my God! In any event, the comments received by Members on a daily basis should be examined and answered. It certainly makes no sense for tax-based primary schools to have a charity once a year. Children can also learn tax disciplines in a different and fair way, rather than now teaching them to charge the product instead of collecting the recommended donations, so that the school avoids the obligation to have a tax box. That seems unacceptable to us. It is also difficult for companies acting in the public interest to have minimal traffic. What's the limit, I don't know, maybe 10,000 euros a year. They must rightly point to the problems of farmers as well. It is the responsibility of the Government to examine and find appropriate answers to all these comments. However, the law that is being considered today would have abolished the tax bills with more than half of the taxpayers, which we do not think is acceptable or wonder whether it is even reasonable to have a tax box in the first place. We will not support the law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going through a general discussion of Members and Members. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for the views of the Group and also for the Government's position. However, once again, I am expressing some hope that we would not blindly follow the Government's view, but that we would still consider how to improve the proposed solution. This is intended, and in particular, for a general discussion, so that we can then improve the proposal for a solution at second reading on the home working body with amendments. That's what this is about. Colleagues and colleagues, I believe that you are many times guests, honored guests at general gatherings of voluntary firefighters' societies, pensioners' associations, mountain societies. What do they tell you there? Are they applauding you for solving the tax box? And don't get me wrong, just in the beginning, I'll say it again, or maybe for the hundredth. New Slovenia is for citizens and citizens to be paid. What is written in the Bible is axiom, give the emperor what is Caesar's. There's no debate here. Pika. And I am proving that taxes have to be paid and severely sanctioned by those who avoid taxes and carry money out, and I am also proving this by my initiative to the government, which I gave some two months ago, also on the basis of a lecture by American economist James S. Henry, who, with some methodology, found that Slovenians from Slovenia had over 50 to 75 billion euros in these 25 years. This is from 5 to 7 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. As a reason for this initiative, the Government also promised Prime Minister Mir Cerar in November 2014 that he would do everything in his power in this area. Well, we're still waiting in New Slovenia for what he'll do. And now you tell me, because it somehow bothered you, why voluntary firefighters, although, as it were, I talk a lot to the pensioners' societies, to mountain societies, to cultural societies that have problems. And they say, "You know what, you have this company and bring in someone from Parliament who will be the president of society." According to the Company Act, the president of the company is an extremely responsible person, who may also be in possession of his property if he makes a tax error, whether he is aware of it or not. Now you tell me how much gray economy will increase in the Republic of Slovenia if voluntary firefighting companies are not liable to the tax box. Yeah, we're talking fireflies. Why do volunteer firemen have fireflies? So they can get some money. What do they use that money for? Yes, for your equipment, because fire extinguishing equipment, protective equipment and extinguishing equipment are extremely expensive. We are living in a time of extraordinary technological progress and, of course, it must also be adapted to save lives and to save property, which is in fact the basic humanitarian mission of voluntary firefighting societies. You're saying we didn't write enough why we want voluntary fire companies to be exceptions. I guess we were wrong and I'm sorry. We understand that you all know very well the mission of a volunteer firefighter. And you say you don't want to limit the humanitarian mission of voluntary firefighters and other societies in any way. Yeah, why did you give them the tax receipts? Because fireflies are, in our understanding in Slovenia, in some ways to raise money for fireflies, voluntary fireflies and, on the other hand, it is also part of Slovenian folklore. What is this folklore? It's actually a human culture, you might say. And I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, with the adoption of the law on tax clearance, you're pushing this folklore down. You're oppressing her. Do you even know that firefighters already had cash registers today, that we have them? Yes, we do, because I am also a member of the fire company of one small village, extremely successful. We're going to have this company for four tenths this year at the state competition. And now he has to earn money to take a bus from some Prekmurje to a national competition. It's all worth it. And the cash registers already exist today. I don't have enough time now to explain to you how someone who serves drinks and food on a fireman's rainbow works with bills and what kind of control he has in the account. I don't know what's bothering you here. You're oppressing human folklore. It's people's culture. And I am very sorry, voluntary firefighting in Slovenia is a little different from elsewhere. Take a look at history, what good and successful history firefighting has in Slovenia. The SMC representative doesn't say anything about costs. Yeah, okay, let's keep the tax checkbooks, like you say. Now we have two options. For the first time, that voluntary fire company for that one joy a year, I stress, one per year, buys tax receipts or hires them. Is that a cost? Yes, of course it is. Of course it is, because you must have more cash registers, not just one. You have a fire meeting, and when 200 firemen sit at the table there, 200 or more people should be served in a very short time. Are you thinking about it? If we really had this will, which you say is close to the humanitarian activity of firefighters, then you would have introduced a law that would also exempt firefighters from the SAZAS tax. It's a cost, you know. Calculate because you have calculators on your phones, how many syringes you have to sell to pay the SAZAS fee, and how many syringes you have to sell on the firelight to pay the rent of the tax box. That respected colleague from the SMC, however, was a little low that now, if our marriage had been adopted, it would not have been, however, that if we had adopted this solution, a voluntary fire company would have been a host in the coming days, in the spring months, or, rather, an organizer of a musical concert of some kind, as it were, a world musician. That one's a little low. I don't know how the Slovenian firefighters are applauding you on this statement. Well, if I'm already at the concert, allow me one association or connection. Last week, the Rolling Stones performed in Cuba. What do they mean to you? I believe you understand exactly what Rolling Stones mean. Rolling Stones in Cuba last week, and we in Slovenia are supposed to be reading a monument to the Red Army. In some ways, we also communicate with the adopted and applicable law that all those who are bound are thieves. Yeah, it's not like that. We have also read some discussions, expert articles from tax advisers, tax experts. We have quite a few in Slovenia. And some cells say that they would prescribe tax bills for taxpayers. It is said that those who have more annual traffic than the threshold for compulsory entry into the VAT system say more than €50 000. Our solution is similar. For those who have turnover of less than 50,000 per year, I would be exempt from tax bills. And just so we're clear, we're not talking about tax relief. Because from what point of view of the Group of Members, I have come to understand that this is not a proper understanding of our solution. It's not about tax relief. It is simply to get rid of these unnecessary, inefficient tax receipts. Yes, I agree. I'm really looking forward to an analysis of the government. The government has not yet said when it will prepare the analysis of the first quarter, but we already have some analysis. Not to me, the Ministry of Finance has published them, or the Financial Administration. Look, since one. 12. By 23 March 2016, up to half-quarter of the afternoon, the number of pledges that took over the digital certificates was 51 thousand 383. When we had a meeting about one year ago at the initiative of New Slovenia, we had an urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance, and we discussed then the Government's action plan for the introduction of the tax registers, the Government wrote in the action plan and later in the bill in explanation that it would be worth around 80 000. It is said that 80,000 business entities are, after the government's then projection, operating in cash and will have to have a tax box and the tax purchase will increase due to the implementation of tax bills between EUR 50 million and EUR 100 million. Today we have, so this date mentioned 23. 3. we are said to be in the last decade of the first quarter of this year and we have the number of taxpayers who have tax-confirmed the accounts, 43 000 248. Now I'm comparing it to 80 grand. When's that $80,000? So this is where the projections were missed, and they were wrong. And it's bad if you're making some kind of legislation on wrong assumptions on wrong projections. According to the latest data from the Ministry of Finance on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the Financial Administration this year collected EUR 11 million less than last February. These are official data from the Ministry of Finance. It just doesn't count here. It doesn't count either, because I don't know of any case that paints your car under the mower without a bill at the same price as the one that's liable to the tax box, and I don't know if you caught any of those under the mower. But you've caught and controlled them, and you've been very controlling them, those who have a registered activity for several years, either espé or share, and actually in some awe of the country they pay taxes. I also know some of the effects of either this legislation or the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. These analyses will probably never be very accurate, but they result in a large number of closed espions, says they have completed the activity, and today we have a municipality in Prekmurje, where there is no more inn. Well, it shouldn't mean that I'm working for a guest activity, but I'm working for an economic activity. Look, that's how it happens in this country. We have municipalities that the Government and the coalition of laws prevent from entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship, and, on the other hand, state banks take ATMs, cancel mail and so on. As Social Democrats say, which are not currently in the Chamber, small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the Slovenian economy. Of course, even the European one. This is what we have been saying in New Slovenia for a long time. Of course, that doesn't mean they're all thieves now. It is necessary to work on building a better tax culture, a long-term process that will certainly not succeed with sanctions. It is necessary to build on trust, colleagues and colleagues. More confidence between the State and economic operators and between economic operators and the State. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. She asked the Mag for a word. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Allow me to have a few responses to the claims and views put forward so far. The system of clearance of accounts for tax purposes has practically only come to life. One of the key things we see this year, when we meet more intensively with representatives of economic operators or their interest associations, is the call for tax legislation not to change so often. The unpredictability of rapid changes is one of the key problems for the entities we have talked to. The same applies to the system of clearance of accounts. When we talk about checking out accounts, we are not talking about bills to pay taxes on, but we are talking about bills to pay for cash. Therefore, it is not appropriate to combine the obligation to confirm an account with the obligation to pay a tax, as proposed in relation to non-governmental organisations. In fact, the idea that NGOs should pay flat-rate taxes on their activities puts them in a worse position than they do today, when incomes that are not considered to be income-generating activities can be exempt from taxation and can only be taxed on revenue and expenditure relating to taxable activities. Liabilities that only occasionally arrange or carry out an activity in respect of which it is necessary to provide tax attestation of invoices, have the option under the applicable law or to secure a tax box, may use the tax box available on the website of the Financial Administration to hire a cash register if they manage this activity only for a short period of time, may, in essence, issue accounts by means of a linked account book and subsequently confirm such accounts. The options are considerable and can choose between these and thus optimize the costs incurred in this regard. Let me point out that our assessment that the costs for each taxpayer amount to around EUR 300 per tax box and that this assessment was applied when the law was passed, according to our data, has also been confirmed. The obligation to issue accounts shall arise in cases where an account is to be issued. When we talk about the smallest debtors, we need to ask ourselves whether the administrative burden for these smallest debtors is actually due, this is a confirmation of the account, whether the administrative burden to be addressed is already the issue of the account itself. This is the direction that we are thinking about at the Ministry of Finance regarding the resolution of the open problems that we face in the first months of the validation of accounts. So it's a question of exactly where do we address the problem, whether for the consequences or for the very reason. The question was raised when the first analyses would be made. In my opening statement, I mentioned that the analyses relating to taxpayers may be prepared after the first invoice is issued for those taxable persons whose tax period is three months, so for the period January-March 2016, the accounts will be submitted by the end of April of this year, meaning that in May they could have made the first analysis. But already the accounts for January show a different picture than was presented in today's discussions. It is true that the figure published in relation to the implementation of the value added tax in February is slightly lower than in last year, but this is only the final profit, which does not take into account that in February there were many more returns to the value added tax due to overpayments than in last year and that payments increased by around 4 % in February compared to last February. These are all payments made by VAT debtors, month-old taxpayers for VAT. If we exclude from this analysis those taxpayers who issue or carry out an activity where more frequently or mainly invoices are issued or pay services and goods in cash, then we can find that the net increase in January and February was more than 7 %, which means high, above average growth. I do not wish to argue at this point that this is due to the introduction of tax boxes, because, as I mentioned above, it is too early to make such claims. However, this information is an important indicator that we can be satisfied with the analysis of the effects of the tax registers I have previously announced. Two more data points in the same direction. We know that the validation of accounts is important not only from the point of view of paying taxes but also from the point of view of combating work and black employment. And if we compare the volume of new regular employment in micro and small taxpayers for full-time and part-time work, we find that in January 2015 this number of regular employees increased by a thousand 400 or 17%. The same is true for the month of February. In the number of new regular jobs for part-time work, this number is even higher. The index in January was 317 in February 247. These are, once again, indications pointing us in the direction that we have achieved the purpose we have pursued with the tax box, although I do not wish to argue that all these results are the result of the tax box. We are still preparing detailed analyses of these data that I have presented. Furthermore, the reduction or question raised with regard to the liquidation of debtors carrying out less than EUR 50 000 per year and at the same time by fire companies. Fire companies are also liable for less than €50,000 of annual tax transport, but more than half or about half of all taxpayers represent those who are voluntarily involved in the VAT system and their annual tax turnover amounts to less than €50,000. I therefore wonder whether this particular exposure to fire companies actually means that these fire companies carry out more than 50,000 euros of annual taxation. I doubt that this is why it is probably a question which I have already raised in the introduction, whether equal treatment is ensured for those who are in the same situations. As regards the claim that the Ministry should propose to schools that they should essentially issue or ensure payment of recommended grants instead of invoices, I must deny this position. Neither the Ministry nor the Financial Administration have ever advocated this; even more, we have pointed out that, as far as a solution is being developed towards the recommended donations and certain goods are being delivered for that, let's say quasi donation, that is also the transport of goods or services. Because of this, as I mentioned in the introduction, we cannot only think about whether certain debtors should be excluded from the system of clearance of accounts, but we must ask ourselves whether it makes sense that accounts for certain traffic in goods and services are issued at all, and this is not a matter of this law, but of other rules. In this context, there are also questions relating to complementary activities on the farm and in relation to machines. In addition to the assessment of the number of debtors for the validation of accounts. Last year, we prepared an assessment of potential debtors for the validation of accounts based on business register data, taking into account the main activity following the standard classification of activities where we have seen a higher cash payment in the past periods. These are so-called potential pledges. These are the people who were in the process of drafting the law, according to our estimates of between 60 and 80 thousand. For the time being, the number of registered debtors certifying the accounts does not mean that only half of the debtors are actually included in the system of checking the accounts and that the others are not issuing the invoices at all, but that it was actually an assessment that was made on the basis of the data available at the time. Today, in fact, we can see that as many as 51,610 pledges have already taken over digital certificates, 7 thousand and 800 are those who issue bound accounts and subsequently confirm them. So we are gradually approaching the estimated number of potential debtors. However, the fact is that, as you have also noted in your debates, not all debtors operate regularly, but some also have occasional traffic in goods and services for cash, so we can expect the number to increase in the coming months to a certain extent. In view of the fact that the first assessment was made on the basis of very general data, we cannot ignore the possibility that we will not go through that lower number than the estimated possibilities, this is to go beyond the figures of 60,000 debtors, which would also somehow be in line with what has been taken so far by digital certificates. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare for Franc Ly. Mrs. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u70	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Since we often visit the field and meet our citizens, we find again and again how lifeless this law is. And Mrs Vraničareva, Secretary of State, you have all been to the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture that we have proposed, as well as the State Secretary from the Ministry of Agriculture, where people themselves have said what problems they have in implementing this law. Mostly because he's lifeless. It's different when we just look at a rule from the office when we remember some rules, and it's different when we have to implement those rules. In particular farmers with complementary activities on the farm. Those who sell their crops in the markets have real problems. They sell one crop according to these rules, the other according to other rules, the third according to third rules. In short, when they get home, many then late into the night put these accounts on the Internet. Because they have no connection, they have big problems and so on. In particular, I don't think you're going to solve the problem of working in black with this law. Again we hear farmers, there is a lot of nonsense, when, for example, the master of the field during the day, someone comes for eggs and the old mother, of course, who sold them with ease, can't do it now because it's not registered at the tax office, because this money can't even be taken away, and it's a banal, small case. Such cases are enormous, not to mention whether they have different activities, how many different records they have to keep and when they should work at all. On farms, we know that the whole family has to work to finally earn something, and everyone, from parents to children, has to add something to this work, which is not paid as much as it should be, have no vacations, no overtime or anything like that. And then we charge them with extra administrative work they can't do. And two secretaries of state have interpreted the laws of each of them, besides working hard, and a farmer should also be a financial expert and a merchant, and I don't know what else. In short, no one wants to avoid paying taxes, but they claim to be lifeless and extremely difficult to implement. For example, when we compare ourselves with Austria on several occasions, Austria is in the European Union, but we do know that there are very simplified, flat-rate taxes and that farmers can then carry out their basic activities, not to the point where they are engaged in red tape, so that they can then be free to continue their work or that they are still engaged in such activities. If you're saying we're gonna wait a year and then we're gonna solve these problems, it's almost like saying the cow should die, and then we'll treat it. If certain problems have already emerged, then I think the only thing that makes sense is that we put an end to these problems as soon as possible. Not that we're waiting for a lot of things to fall apart, but a lot of people will leave this activity, and then we'll take solutions. When we pursue black work on farms, on the other hand, we see what is going on in businesses, as we have now the case of this company, Marof, as we have the example of hiring drivers or their working hours and so on. In short, these stories are large, unpaid contributions, they are even out of work and do not pay contributions to health and social insurance, and we need to do this first, not those farmers who are literally difficult to sell something on the market, but we are adding additional obstacles to them. Given that the Minister of Agriculture is seeking more self-sustainment with food crops, with agricultural crops, then I would expect him to vote, even though this is the area of the Ministry of Finance. I can't believe he can't hear these stories from day to day in the field. I can't believe he can't hear this because I'm embarrassed when people tell me what nonsense is going on here. I am ashamed, but I did not support this law, except for someone who is responsible for Slovenian agriculture and does not seek to put an end to this nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj has the floor to prepare Mrs Urska Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u72	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! We all understand that the main weapon against the grey economy is the tax culture. Only if we win this tax culture at an appropriate level will it certainly be easier, easier and even better in the field of taxes. And for that, it has to be a mature society, of course. Individual laws like the one we talk about apply. He came into force, we all know he's alive, brought with him both positive and negative consequences. It is certainly positive that something has been updated. Let me say that I have been present in tax control several times, and this tax control has been a nuisance and, on the other hand, it has also caused a business stop because the tax inspector has demanded that all transport be printed and so on, not to mention. I think that, as far as this is concerned, we can assess the tax credits on the positive side of this control. However, that the cost has also brought burdens, especially, unfortunately, for those who are least, that is another fact. However, I see two options here; one is when we talk about exceptions, setting a threshold, as we see from the available data, so that it can put the whole system on its head. There is also a question of the meaning of these tax boxes and of this law. The second thing I see for sure is that all possible administrative and cost receptions are being reviewed that could be used to manage the problems arising from the implementation of this law. There is certainly a problem, as I have already said, for the small – and I will now point out – and especially for those who carry out additional activities on farms, but, as has already been said, I think it has been mentioned today that it is also possible to look at this issue systematically and, under other legislation, to work in this direction to check whether it is reasonable and necessary to issue accounts in certain cases. I certainly see here the possibility that this marriage could become more lifelike. Next, I call on all those responsible to listen to all reasonable comments from the ground, to examine them and to address unnecessary administrative complications in this area. It is certainly important to mention that in certain cases, such as bazaars in primary schools and so on, in companies established and operating in the public interest, the purpose of the issuance of invoices needs to be verified. Secondly, the Tax Administration should also go to these institutions and provide them with the lowest possible accessibility and administrative assistance to the whole system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the National Assembly on 15 July last year, I also confirmed the Law on tax clearance of invoices, which started only at the beginning of this year on 2 January 2016. After the bad three months, we already have a proposal on the table today to amend this law. Let me begin by saying that, when we decided to draft this law and when we were preparing the law, when we finally adopted it and finally adopted it, the purpose of the government as a coalition was to make serious and proposed solutions and adopted in this law, weighed and considered, so that I do not see any need now, as I have said, to change the bad three months of application of this law for a reason, as I have stated, because we have not prepared the law in such a way, in a manner and on an average, but demanded a period of time, and was also involved in a broad debate and then, at the end of the day, decisions have been taken which have received more support in the National Assembly. With the adoption of this law, so-called cash registers were introduced, not as cash registers, as we all imagine, in the form of some physical devices, but in the form of invoice validation procedures at the Financial Administration. The law therefore prescribed only the procedure and only the procedure for attesting accounts for all debtors who are already bound by other laws to issue invoices. This law has not established or identified any new taxable person. All had to issue accounts by then or by then, and even now, the laws in force. The payment of donations, membership fees, and this bill has not been affected on several occasions, such transactions are exempted from the issue of accounts, so that there is no clearance of accounts for such things. As I said, this law has only laid down the clearance procedure for accounts, which is therefore binding on all those who issue accounts in cash transactions from 2 January 2016. The basic objective of this procedure is to establish a system that allows for the transparent and reliable recording of the cash traffic of taxable persons and thus contributes also to the reduction of the volume of the grey economy and contributes to the prevention of tax evasion and fraud in the field of value added tax, corporate income taxes, operating taxes, income and other benefits, as well as to the proper calculation of social security contributions and the control of the legality of employment or work. The adoption of this law also meant an instrument and a measure to combat the grey economy, of course we are aware that only one of its emerging forms. Tax registers allow only one of the instruments of improved supervision and allow the staff capacity of the Financial Administration to be effectively focused on other areas, according to those emerging forms of grey economy and forms of tax evasion that cannot be covered by tax registers. There has also been a lot of talk about the fact that tax checkers do not prevent the failure of accounts or that we cannot influence it with tax receipts. I don't think so directly. And indirectly, from what has already been said, yes. Since the adoption of such a system as was prescribed by this law, the Financial Administration has not been able or has not been able to identify the non-issue of accounts, except on the ground. By means of a tax box system, by matching the data on the deduction of entry VAT due to the purchase of goods and services for the provision of taxable activities and, on the other hand, by not giving out revenue or exit VAT and not issuing invoices, it will also be possible to identify those who, on the one hand, enforce the deduction of the entry tax and, on the other hand, do not issue the invoices and thus do not pay that exit tax to the added value that they should pay under law. So, from the very adoption of this law in the summer months of 2015 to the beginning of this year, a lot of debates have taken place, much has been said, a lot of questions raised, what to do in a particular case, what is right, what is wrong, what will be worth more and what is not. In this place I would also like to commend the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in my view, has prepared extremely well and prepared for this very demanding project. I have closely monitored their activities by means of media releases, professional debates, through their website, where it has responded to all the issues and dilemmas faced by taxpayers in an up-to-date manner and has provided them with adequate support and assistance for the introduction of these so-called tax registers. At least in my conduct, this project was carried out without major technical problems, which was not always the case with such or similar projects. According to the Financial Administration, it is also possible to detect or detect certain positive effects of the introduction of tax receipts: that accounts are issued more consistently than before and that the situation on the ground, including in terms of the correct use of tax warehouses, has improved significantly within three months. However, the fact is that the first estimates of the financial recovery of the tax registers can be made sometime in May, as the Secretary of State has already said, when the three-month-old taxpayers will also pay the VAT bill. To date, as I say, three months of use is bad, we do not have some analysis of the impact of the validation of accounts, but in the SMC, in the coalition, as has already been said today, when we are familiar with the effects of the adoption of the law, we will carefully weigh, assess whether any corrections are needed, perhaps exceptions or simplifications to the same clearance process. Probably for all the statements that have already been made today, how many espies have ceased to exist, how many have been relocated abroad, I am sure that this analysis will also show that it is not only the tax office but also something else that is to blame for everything. If I go back to the bill we are considering today. There are two amendments or two amendments. Firstly, to include additional exceptions that would not be subject to the obligation to tax confirmation of accounts, as we have already heard today, as has been explained by the proponents, this should apply to voluntary firefighting companies and taxpayers who have been in taxable traffic in the last year for the last 12 months under EUR 50,000. Secondly, it is a proposal to abolish a fine which is prescribed by law for a buyer of goods or services if he does not take over when buying goods or services. Maybe a few words about exceptions first. We have already told the party or our group, when adopting this system of account validation, or in some way advocated that the exceptions were not favoured, since this is linked to the effectiveness of the whole system and the achievement of the purpose of this law. Our position when we adopted this law was that the possible exceptions could only be those arising from the Value Added Tax Act, which means that if, by some basic principle, someone does not have to issue an account, of course, we cannot ask him to confirm that account. We have advocated equal tax treatment of the taxpayers. We often hear that the tax system is unfair because it allows taxpayers, who should be treated differently in the same or comparable situation, because someone can avoid paying the tax, again others cannot. It is therefore the task of the tax system to ensure a level playing field for all taxpayers through measures requiring a relatively low administrative burden and in order to prevent tax evasion or abuse. Therefore, no exceptions were foreseen for the smaller taxpayers and societies at that time. However, we did not overhear these initiatives that came from such circles. Therefore, the problem of smaller taxpayers or debtors issuing fewer invoices has been taken into account and has also been taken into account in the adoption of this tax. In order to simplify these taxpayers, a mini-tax application was developed under the e-tax scheme, which is available free of charge to all taxpayers. All taxpayers also have the option of using the bound account book with the possibility of subsequent confirmation of the accounts in the e-tax tool until the end of 2017. As I noted in the press release of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in early March, this mini-taxation solution uses quite a few taxpayers. There is a figure of 11 000 344, which shows that this solution has been well received and has also been shown to be a useful solution. In particular, it is likely for these smaller taxpayers and also for societies. As far as I am concerned, and probably also colleagues from the parliamentary group, we do not favour further exceptions. Certainly, as I said, we hear the concerns and will deal with them as part of the analysis to be prepared by the Ministry in May. At that time, we will also assess whether any changes, adjustments, simplification of this system of account validation are needed. However, we cannot judge this by the practically poor three months of application of this obligation to confirm accounts. Especially in the fact that the system, although some do not want to see it, shows positive effects. That any such or such change also takes its time and that in a time perspective, perhaps some insurmountable, insurmountable situation at that time, then there is also an appropriate and effective and good solution. Once again, I would like to point out that all taxpayers under this law have by now had to issue accounts. Let them be big, small entrepreneurs, societies, NGOs. If other legislation has defined them as debtors for the issuance of accounts, this law has brought them nothing new. As I said, he simply defined the procedure for transferring such an account from a cashier to a financial management server. Here alone, I believe that the solutions offered in the law, the solutions offered by the Financial Administration, including free, good, are a solution to the problem, including the one cited by the proposer, and there is certainly room for improvement. There is something else about another proposal, which is addressed by the law that we are considering today. It's fines or fines. When we wrote down and laid down a fine for the obligation of a buyer who does not take over and keep the account until the exit, we also stressed the special role in the whole process, the particular role of the buyer. Let me say again, it is a penalty of 20 euros if it is paid in 8 days or 40 euros, if that is not the case. By requiring and taking the account, the customer shall prevent the seller from recording it, recording the sale of goods or services in order to subsequently correct, delete, organise. Here, on the one hand, it is also about raising awareness of the importance of issuing and taking over accounts, and it is about respect for tax rules in general. Unfairly distributed tax burden requires the efforts of the whole of society, and thus in the SMC we also understand this prescribed fine, or this prescribed obligation to take over the account at any purchase of goods or services by the buyer. We agree, however, that a balanced combination of measures should be found, which will relate to increasing the efficiency of tax collection and, at the same time, to the development of tax culture in general, as we have already discussed today. But it is up to us, individuals, to do so everywhere. I am convinced that all, both entrepreneurs, societies, as buyers, could quickly adapt to this new environment, which we have somehow established with the Law on tax clearance of accounts. Of course, there may also be a second path, a failure to comply with tax rules, a path to the search for curves, a possibility of abuse, we can also accept this as normal and do nothing. People are the ones who depend on these changes. As I said, we are quick to adapt in all areas, and it is ultimately up to our choice whether we will take some steps to – what we often like to say – a more fair tax system, a more fair tax system, a more orderly public finances, and thus more opportunities that the State could offer to citizens on the basis of income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko [[...]] Proposer, please. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Initially, I forgot to thank my colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, who were the only ones who clearly announced support for our law. You can tell they understand life. Last but not least, the United Left did not oppose the bill, but somehow it pains me that the coalition is simply on principle: but ha, this law was proposed by the opposition, let us reject it. Those of us who once worked in companies and sold products and services also had the opportunity of education, we learned that the buyer is the king; in the market economy, the buyer is the king. Yeah, who for God's sake is next to this buyer who tells him to take the bill if he doesn't, he's gonna pay the fine? Who, then, is this king over the king — the merchant? So here's the first logic that just doesn't hold up. We would also like to and perhaps understand this solution a little better if it were complete. Why didn't the government, and the coalition, never predict a comprehensive solution? In general, she said, and also in a coalition agreement that is not a treaty, she wrote that this coalition would introduce tax receipts as a key instrument in the fight against the grey economy. Why not a comprehensive solution? Have you thought about upgrading this system? You may now, from this point forward, be able to enter mature accounts and other costs in connection with the business of a business entity, an entrepreneur, a farmer, if you want anyone who manages business books, to enter mature accounts and other costs in connection with the business of a business vehicle, rent for business premises and so on and so on, and that this large Furs, which has an information system, should be more expensive, then at the end of the year, give an IT calculation or an IT balance based on the logic of our government in 2004-2008 when we introduced an IT calculation of income. Here I would really like a projection, a look ahead, of what the government is thinking in this direction. Speaking of which, solutions must be such that everyone gets something and everyone gets something. Now, entrepreneurs have given, how much money, we don't have this data, the estimate was that entrepreneurs have given around 40 to 50 million to buy software and hardware for the tax box. So you've taken from 40 million to 50 million businesses by law. Well, it is true that the tax base has also been reduced for a nuance and that the budget will also be paid for a little less taxes. But, ladies and gentlemen, if tax remittances are a key instrument, according to you, to reduce the grey economy, then the effect should be at least 500 million not 50 million more tax revenue in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Then this is a story worth discussing. The government estimates that tax revenues will increase between €50 million and €100 million as a result of the introduction of tax bills. Our assessment is that tax revenues should be increased if tax receipts are to be introduced and if they are to be approached in the right way, tax revenues should be increased by 500 million. [[…]] Why am I saying this? Because experts, not us politicians, estimate that the share of the grey economy is between €3.5 billion and €4 billion per annum. These are the numbers you need to talk about. If you take the right measure to reduce the grey economy, then you have to cut it by half to not be 4 billion, but only 2 billion. And if we assume that the annual share of the grey economy is EUR 4 billion and that the tax revenue will cover at least EUR 2 billion, as I said, of the grey economy, then the tax revenues should be the following: a gross estimate: a tax circus of EUR 250 million, more of course, an increase in the revenues of the espionage and thus an increase in the income of the circus of EUR 150 million, an increase in the income of legal persons and thus an increase in the income of legal persons for the circus of EUR 100 million, and an increase in the ability to pay salaries in cash and thus an increase in social security contributions to the circus of EUR 50 million. A total of EUR 500 million. These are numbers. Not that you now take it away from economic operators who owe EUR 50 million – but if I do not have the exact figure – I doubt that Furs has it – and on the other hand you will get 50 million more tax revenue for this in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, such as your projection. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be satisfied with your analysis, what I say now, which you will do after three months. I won't be happy. Because the real analysis, hand-to-heart, is an analysis throughout the fiscal year, assuming nothing changes, no other law, no, I don't know, a higher fine or anything like that. On day 1. 1. 2016 must be equal to 31. 12. 2016 and then for this period we need to make an analysis. But of course, what's the problem? But the problem is in different interpretations of this analysis. The coalition will interpret, in the interest of tax receipts, the opposition is likely to be slightly different, perhaps even more objectively, perhaps less demagogic. Why did we give — because I can see that this bothers you — why did we make voluntary firefighting society an exception? They are slightly different from all other companies, also registered under the Company Act; they are companies that have the most expensive equipment and where training and education costs a lot. We all know that for the great work done by firefighters, such as the stomach, we do not mention any minor fires or floods at all. What about now that we have and still have a refugee, migrant crisis? You, your government, colleagues and colleagues, have come to local fire companies in the border municipalities and arrangements have been reached if firefighters can carry out preparatory work to set up fences and that this work will be paid. Remember my question last week, the Minister of the Interior or her ministry rejected it, thank God, the Minister of Defence accepted it and it was embarrassing for her to answer that the firefighters were actually being cheated. In just one congregation, I know that a thousand 280 hours have been spent and that they have received some change — foolish work, ladies and gentlemen! Please, not like that! This bill on tax clearance also has an international dimension – well, if I am a little dramatic. You all know the Slovenian International Women's Association of the Force, which has a charity bazaar every year, a lot of money is collected for charity purposes. These are mainly the wives of ambassadors who have been accredited here in Slovenia and now we come and place tax registers there. I'm embarrassed!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pogačnik, please. Get Mrs. Iva Dimic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u78	Dear President, thank you for your word! Today's debate, as well as the data coming from day to day to day with regard to the introduction of so-called tax receipts, can only come to one conclusion that all those warnings and all the risks that we have been alerting the opposition to, in particular, the Slovenian Democratic Party, when the Government of Mira Cerar started introducing the tax registers, have indeed proved justified. The fact is, there is a major confusion. Last but not least, I am personally convinced that far from tax receipts will follow the objective advocated by the SMC, Desus, SD and the government of Mir Cerar, in terms of reducing the grey economy itself. It was also a red thread. Today, we have been able to hear from the Secretary of State, I would say, other reasons for introducing these tax registers. I am increasingly getting the feeling that these tax registers are also somehow called Big Brother in Slovenia and that as a result of the introduction of these tax boxes and backgrounds, in particular, how will you control mainly small businesses, small entrepreneurs, whether they violate working hours or do not violate working hours, or those who are employed, work more than eight hours or work less, or those who are employed, are employed, are registered at the Employment Institute, etc. The measurable effect that the Government has already stated at the time of the adoption of the law – 75 million – I think it is relatively very low, but above all it is not proportionate to the damage that the introduction of the tax registers or the damage that actually the tax remittances have caused to the economy. We know that a number of small entrepreneurs have decided to close their business as a result of this introduction. Above all, I am sure that there will also be significantly lower revenues in the budget itself than the Government has predicted. I think that this is also a good proof that the grey economy in Slovenia is on a much smaller scale than some at statistical offices and also at the Ministry of Finance are trying to show. There are even 3 billion euros. I do not think that this is a materially overblown data and that the consequences of the introduction of tax cans will not solve this, because those who have not yet issued the invoices will not do so today or tomorrow. Above all, with bureaucratic obstacles and cost matters, you have actually weakened and renewed the burden on entrepreneurship and the economy. We could also read a report from the Ministry of Finance that the VAT inflows for February 2016 were lower by 20 million euros compared to February 2015 – down by 20 million euros! – and that monthly this is also the largest inflows from VAT after March 2015 if I have the right data. The fact is, this small inflow from VAT is very surprising to me. We must take into account that these tax receipts, which have become mandatory with 1. 1. 2016, on the other hand, they also served with the necessity of purchasing both software and technical equipment. From the point of view of purchasing software and technical equipment, I believe that the VAT inflow should be increased. It's not a low cost, we've heard before that some entrepreneurs have spent more than 5,000 euros on it, smaller entrepreneurs pay 30 euros a month. This was not the case in February 2015. Today, however, all these taxpayers had to make this outflow. And from this title, the tax should have gone up. This means that there are significantly lower tides. I would like to know, Madam Secretary of State, whether you may be following the VAT-related category of inflows at the Ministry of Finance for the purchase of software and technical equipment for tax receipts. I think that this information could be obtained, and it would be interesting to present it to Parliament and to the general Slovenian public to see what the effect is because of some of the commitments made by the Government of Mir Cerar. See, I am sure that a step forward in the amendment of the law is urgently needed if not, as we have also proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that the tax credits should be abolished in full and the state reimburses the expenses incurred by the introduction of this new instrument. However, we are convinced that it is far from following the tax remittances set by the Government of Mir Cerar, and this is an additional burden on entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs, and that many will be forced to close their trade. I think the consequences are showing, and if there is no real change in this area, they can also be long-term for both public finances and, above all, for the economy and jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Tax registers were actually introduced because of the grey economy we have in Slovenia, according to Fursa's estimate of 8.3% of GDP. As I have already said at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the total agriculture in Slovenia represents 1.7% of GDP, 1.7% of points. Thus, if everything were to be defrauded, we would not have saved the grey economy in Slovenia. This is not because no country wants to cheat because we all live from the country. farmers also live from the country, they also use state institutions, but what's too much is too much. I think that the decision of the Government and the support of the Minister of the Jews, the Ministry of Agriculture, the introduction of tax registers was also wrong on farms. Just this morning, I got a call from a farmer who said, "Well, please tell me you need to change things." She was reading at night because she only has Internet at night. She was also on our committee. She only has Internet at night, Internet connection. How am I supposed to enter, she said, tax bills? Because it has a bound account book because it works on four stands across Slovenia and because it is a huge burden for it to buy such cash registers. The eye that I got to protect rich farmers – please! Rich farmers have companies, they have businesses. Small farmers, small entrepreneurs with complementary activities with afternoon trades, were the most burdened with tax boxes. I am sure – and I will say that I look forward to more detailed analyses – that it was up to you to decide that things would come back, shut down, and that is why the downsizing is also a tide. Eleven million less inflows in February than last February, I think there should be a red alert here for the whole government, for the entire government coalition. Well, say, yeah, it was a tax return. After all, the refund tax was also charged in 2015! Wasn't that when the state returned it? It seems to me that we are talking here about things that are actually happening every year, or every month or every quarter at the flats, calculating the tax back. It seems to me that the right solution is to help at least one part of the segment, including flat-rate taxation or cadastral income taxation. Here, too, I do not know why Slovenia is so specific that certain matters simply cannot be taxed on cadastral income – even here the criticism of the finance ministry or the Financial Administration. However, the biggest criticism, given the information I obtained from a well-known Slovenian tax advisor, is that it is clear who are the taxpayers. Daily, you can see for a minute who issues bills, who doesn't report them, that everything can be seen and not done on it. So we have a problem on the other side. We have a problem with control or surveillance. Not the one who works and sells a basket of strawberries or a kilo of cabbage doesn't issue an account. At the same time, I think it is necessary to consider how the new Cadastrian Income Act will include these issues in June. A certain decision has been taken, I believe you have already examined it. You don't even have to study much. You can see how this works in other countries and still use a healthy farm of intelligence.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Get Mrs. Vojka Shergan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we're talking about the Bill of Account Confirmation. Above all, from the point of view that this law is adopted and that this law can also be amended in further consideration and that it can actually be adapted to the actual state of affairs. In short, we are not only talking today about the proposals that this law contains, but we are also talking about discussing this and that the further procedure of this law allows certain things to change. We are listening to this, of course, mainly by the government and also by the coalition Members, how there are no real analyses today, how the data show this or other, how the data shows that even if we have a smaller inflow of value added tax, we have a higher inflow because of the lower inflows of taxes, higher calculation and so on and so on. In short, it's a square move. It would be best to break this law. This is also proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. But not because of data analysis, but because of people; because of the fact that children will no longer have to have cash registers when they make a card for the new year and sell it at the so-called school bazaar. Not to be sold to a father or a mother or a grandmother or a grandfather under the nicknames, so parents or their parents give one or half euros as their reward for doing something to make them creative. That is why today we have the situation in this country as we have it, and this has also resulted in a special meeting of the committees and the Commission where this topic has been addressed. In the area of agriculture, families no longer know whether to produce or to issue accounts with tax registers, search the Internet, search for forms and send them to the Ministry of Finance or Furs, whatever. This marriage isn't about analysis, it's not about calculating something, it's bad for people. This coalition and this government have adopted this law in order to make things worse for people, so of course there are no effects. For, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at data on how financial effects are and if we look at comparisons, for example, the January-January period, then we find that the trend in revenue growth from January 2015-January 2016 is 1.5% with a much higher growth in gross social product. We also have growth or no growth at all if we are looking at absolute data, where in January there was actually 2.6% lower value added tax in the share of all budget revenues, which means that we have a decline, and this also shows data for the month of February when there was actually less revenue. But of course now these analyses are to make us count down something and count something and so on, and in the end the analysis will show some superiority of the tax registers. By actually making life difficult for people, but the effects are not, except for the effects, they can, I don't know, people who work at Furs or at the Ministry of Finance, there's nothing left. Here then you can also talk about that there was also a little bit of speculation about whether these accounts now mean less grey economy or more gray economy and so on. [[…]] Look, the grey economy is not going to go down because of the tax receipts. I'm talking about the gray economy because I'm separating the gray economy from the black economy. We know exactly how many grey economies we have today, exactly what we know, and our colleague Horvat has already talked about it. We also have different analyses on how to get this grey economy. 50 to 100 million, ladies and gentlemen, today should be more than 4 to 8 million, on average. If we're talking about 50 to 100 million at an annual level, that means about 4 to 8 million at a monthly level; and this is not. Even compared to the previous months, this is not the case. However, the tax bill of this coalition, this government has actually failed, has already failed, as some other measures have failed, such as real estate taxes and the like, where the Ministry of Finance has also come up with a great incentive, how this will be the best tax and so on and how it will solve the problem. The fate of these tax receipts is similar to the fate of the property tax; the exact same story. Thus, with this point of view, there are a lot of distractions and very many things make life difficult. Not only to fire companies that have been mentioned most today, but also to mountain societies, including children who work, including farmers, even those who actually want to create something with their own work, with their own creativity. And that's easy for them to do. When it comes to improving business conditions in this country – see a typical example of how conditions deteriorate. They get worse from an administrative point of view and worse, especially in view of the fact that no one actually has any of this and, above all, there is no financial impact. I don't know, before that, we had some virtual tax receipts, so-called. I don't know why they weren't enough. Probably because the coalition gave it to itself as the main project that has to live and live, and it is likely to fail sooner or later. Even waiting for those three-month-olds to pay value added tax will not significantly improve and the situation will not be completely different. Because how much of this tax is made by three - month - olds? He's fighting a little compared to the others. They fight little compared to the other value added tax, which are monthly taxpayers. It can probably be calculated on one hand's fingers. In these positions, which are here today, there is, above all, a great deal of deception and deception with regard to the anals themselves. But the point is, it makes this matter more difficult for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Dear secretary with a team and colleagues, nice greeting! The proposed law, of course, seeks to extend the exceptions to mandatory implementation of tax confirmation of accounts to small taxpayers. Of course, there are exceptions now that the debtors can use the bound account book in a transitional period of up to 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, they are obliged to confirm all invoices issued using the bound account within 10 working days from the tax authority via e-tax. Of course, exceptions can always be some new injustices to others, because when you make exceptions without analysis, you can make new injustices, so it seems to me that, with exceptions, it is extremely prudent and without some analysis of how successful this period of tax evasion was, this would not be good. First, you point out that the costs of purchasing and maintaining machines and software have increased, but those who use exceptions mean that they use a bound account book, but they do not have new costs, because these liabilities essentially use these e-taxes. Nevertheless, I would also like to point out that in the field, when I meet with the taxpayers, some also commend the tax checkers. Finally, they themselves are satisfied because they have somehow now, they have been led by manuals before, but now they are in fact computerized in terms of material consumption, they are running traffic, and not least, they also have some control over material consumption themselves, and then the employees are somehow following some of the measures that entrepreneurs have or have introduced through this introduction of these tax registers. In addition, the export of taxpayers whose annual VAT-related turnover would not exceed EUR 50 000 in the last 12 months would in some way, if followed, have practically forgiven almost half of the taxpayers. This would not be good, because most small taxpayers actually also do business with the most cash and, of course, this tax system would not cover these, which of course would not be good and would be a greater risk of black employment and cash in some way to go through the tax registers. We are also aware of some of the demands of farmers, as mentioned in the agricultural activity, that there is also a problem of these smaller debtors, and we somehow think that it is right to tackle this problem with the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Law, which is also announced by ministries, since in this case an intensive crop of vegetables and herbs would also be included in the basic agricultural activity, and the finance and agriculture ministries also agree on the inclusion of some other complementary activities, such as the first processing, for example, when milk is converted into meat and yogurt, this would be somehow the first processing and would be counted in the cadastral income. I think this will be the best solution for agricultural activities. In doing so, I would also point out that, in 2015, in the Income Act, we have allowed farmers to decide for themselves when and if they will enter the farm's accounting management system. So in some ways we have already handled them administratively, and farmers can decide for themselves how they will run the farm: through a double bookkeeping or flat-rate. As for the prescribed penalties for buyers of goods and services and that they are also obliged to keep the account, to submit it to the authorised persons, we believe in the SMC that the existing solutions are good, especially in terms of changing the tax culture in Slovenia, or else the inspector has the opportunity to warn the buyer only, it is not necessary to deepen it. In the Financial Administration, however, on the effectiveness of the introduction of tax registers, they somehow ensure that the positive effects of tax repositories are perceived. This also shows the inspection, including the media reported, the more consistent issuance of accounts is detected, the additional registration has also been detected and the additional employment of those entities that have previously acted on black or gray, as already. Of course, the first analysis of the effects in mid-May will give first results, which will make it easier to decide what changes and for which business entities, because without a good analysis and without time, must somehow run out to make this analysis, I think that the rapid changes could make new injustices, as I have already said, and then we really do nothing. We are constantly changing an area, changing the tax area, and time shows what is good and what is not. I think the ministry will do that, and then we will be able to figure out again how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Purely for a short colleague of Private Shergan's. Of course, we are the first to agree that it is not good very often to change the tax environment, but you have transferred to the National Assembly the bill on tax clearance of accounts. You also say that some debtors, if I understand correctly, also praise the tax box because they can then monitor the materials, the consumption of materials. Look, it's all over. Tax certification of accounts has nothing to do with monitoring stocks or material consumption, this is a matter of the internal information system. So much so that those who praise know what to praise.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u87	Reploco has Mrs. Vojka Shergan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u88	I just want to answer for a moment. This is true, but the introduction of tax registers has led the taxpayers to set up a computer programme and finally find that, if there are costs on the one hand, savings are on the other hand. Everything's always connected, nothing's just one-way. Nothing is one-way, everything is and even over the years everything has to change, digitize and so on. [[…]] That's a plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar, get Mr. Uroš Prikl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you, Madam President. See, that entrepreneur, who has found out what his stocks are by the introduction of the tax registers, I doubt he has any predispositions for long-term business. And this last argument of my transition, Mrs Šerganov, that time will show what is good and what is not, shows precisely this sadness and weakness of the government of Mir Cerar. Time will show what's good and what's not. This means that it is a policy of experimentation and error: we will introduce something and then in time we will find out what is good and what is not. It is irresponsible that policy introduces legislative proposals and additional administrative burdens, without previously knowing exactly what this means. To find out what is good and what is not, it is too late for this country – sorry, dear colleague. Small entrepreneurs, I don't know society, fire companies and so on, that's the biggest added value of society. In fact, it is the sob within a society that works actively for the individual society of the state. So if someone is inclined to constantly create to use their hands, their head, their legs at the end of the day, it also has a bearing on the activity and response of this society. The more a country with repressive laws restricts this activity, the greater the harm it does to its social nature. And the smart finance minister will encourage such activities, because anyone who deserves something probably doesn't put it aside in a sock, but he does it to end up enjoying it; so that he can afford something. This attack, which the tax collectors are transferring to these micro-enterprises, companies and so on, essentially affects the very essence of this most active substance of the nation. In fact, look, these little entrepreneurs, these companies, they can't go to state banks and get huge loans without insurance, they can't. They don't have transaction accounts in Cyprus or New York on 7th Avenue. They don't. And they don't have that kind of business, or they don't have friends in ministries or in governments that would give them fabulous money through public contracts. They don't. They create with their work, fight every day for their daily bread, and they are no more beautiful than they are active; for when they create, they always add. And more than those who create, we will live better in this society. The measure applied by the Ministry of Finance with these tax registers. In the debate, we have repeatedly pointed out that this is a non-life measure, that it is too rigorous a measure and that it will affect those small entrepreneurs that are essentially criminalised. In that bill, remember, it's those who want to cover up taxes. With the 5 billion that have disappeared in Slovenian banks, I don't know, the Ministry of Finance doesn't deal as much with these small payers. Look, this 50 million we're supposed to make at the tax office, that's 100 years of what the bankers of that 18 are. 12. 2013 invested in Slovenian banks. A hundred years, a hundred times! However, it seems to me that one-year job of detecting culprits would at least be more successful from the point of view of taxpayers than working with societies, small and micro-enterprises. Much more successful. State Secretary Vraničareva said, of course, these tax registers touch those who deal in cash. So those who have cash business. Now I'm asking you. In these two years, little less than two years, a respected coalition, when you're in power, how many individuals have you seen who came to pay with cash, I don't know, with five cases of money? I think and I hope none. How many of those who were looking for a white man's pocket, two to buy coffee? Probably a lot. And now the Ministry of Finance is essentially looking for the culprits among those who are looking for a coin in their pocket. Those who, with different ways of financing a fabulous sum, translate into accounts in tax havens, and those, I don't know, I don't think we talk about them that much in this room. But we should be doing a lot more! The fact that the government defends tax receipts at all times, while small people, those who, in fact from their work, will not become immeasurably rich, but will do so because of their own joy and so that they can actually get some improvement, the Ministry of Finance will not have much to gain from it. They themselves acknowledge that the data shows you, so insisting on an unreasonable decision is a repeat of an unreasonable decision. And it is true that we in the Slovenian Democratic Party support this proposal. But I think we need to go even further. I think that just because some people are returning their jobs, saying I prefer to go back and not deal with it anymore, but subjecting myself to this complicated legislation means that the next step should be taken – just as Mrs Sherganov said, we have found out what is wrong. And if we've figured out what's wrong, I suggest you propose that the tax box be abolished. Because otherwise, we'll have a whole bunch of similar solutions here in this room. When you don't know what action to take, you'll remember the easiest. The easiest thing to do is to push on a broad crowd of people who don't have a union that doesn't have a messenger in the government who don't have some kind of powerful power to stop life in this country, press on it, and – of course, what will it do? You said before, it's nice, because they already do, because they bought these cash registers and so on. So they respect that. Normal! If you ban it today by law that it is forbidden to wear green, green clothes, I guarantee you, whatever this proposal is, that when the matter is published in the Official Journal and everyone dressed in green, you will not get a lot of them into this green room. And it's the same with a bad marriage. If you set up a penal system to pay 40 euros to anyone who doesn't take an account, or anyone who does business and doesn't know it, someone in one of the offices will find out that they've filed a tax on the wrong form, they'll stop doing business. Of course, the question is, who wins? With stupid laws, no one wins. The minister can sign under the government's reform programme, with the hook that he did this law, but in the end, taxpayers, especially citizens and citizens, will not live any better. And what is the main purpose of the government? That people live better. If this objective is not achieved, it means that the objective of this Government is not realized. I therefore propose that you reconsider the introduction of these tax boxes or the abolition of these tax boxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mrs. Vojka Shergan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u92	It's a little bit long and short again. I've been discussing things a little differently, as was then interpreted. But anyway, also the position of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia is that now that the taxes have been introduced, they should be mandatory for all. That's exactly what they're saying. In particular, they point out that if they change to re-definition of compulsory tax certification, it would result in certain costs and energy loss for the establishment of old systems, which would be even more irrational than the tax certification of business entities' accounts. Similarly, the position of the OSCE, which has about 50,000 members, is not to change the system and are against the exchange. That's all I wanted to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u94	Colleague Vojka Šergan, since you are an honest colleague, then tell us that the Chamber of Commerce has strongly opposed the Law on tax clearance of accounts. Say that, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Procedurally, mag. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam President. I would ask, Madam President, to remind my colleague, Shergan, that, when quoting, he also cites a substantive whole. I suggest that you suggest that she also cites this part of the Chamber of Commerce where she says: "In the Chamber of Commerce, we have always warned that the measure of compulsory use of tax warehouses is an extremely partial measure which affects only the field of registered activities, so this measure does not solve the problem of tax evasion, which is carried out in the form of non-issue of invoices, but in particular does not solve the problem of tax evasion." I suggest that you warn her that she is providing substantively full information, but not just extracts from the individual opinions of the stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you so much for the update. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Get Mr. Marijan Pojbič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Uroš Prikl is certainly not the "frontman" who would round up the tax registers in such a form as was adopted or this law, and at no point did he give in, was unresponsive to changes and so on. Also, the client Desus, who belongs to Uroš Prikl, will not defend the form that was originally written on all the scales. Last but not least, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not the one to go, I will say this with a parable, "with a throat in the strawberries" and simply did not listen to and enforce my own self so and no other way. Last but not least through the process when this idea was born, it is said, from the beginning of the idea of tax rebates or confirmation of accounts until implementation, some Ljubljana has passed or Drava, if you want, and here a number of stakeholders participated. I am sure that in many cases the opinion of those who use or use these tax registers together today has also been taken into account. Of course, every law, as well as the Law on Electronic Account Recognition, is living matter, changes in its course if it is found that certain matters need to be changed, complemented, improved. I am sure that all of us together, if we find that it is necessary to do so, will listen to it and change it accordingly under the "win-win" system, that everyone will be satisfied and that those anomalies, the potential ones that can sneak in every law, will not or will not be removed. All of us who have confirmed or agreed to such a law, which is now before us or with the law in force, have been given evidence of the frantic financial caressing of certain entities. Let me just point out that, with regard to the apparent disproportionateity of the cost burdens of the debtors, the Government has made clear to us that, in accordance with the legislation in force, there is a possibility of a tax exemption for an investment of 40 % which can be carried over over the next five tax periods and that for computer equipment there is a depreciation rate of 50 %. Taxpayers, legal and natural persons who carry out the activity will be able to carry out the process of issuing and certifying the accounts without additional costs — this seems essential — through the e-tax portal they have been using for some time now to pay the tax on the income of legal persons, income and value added tax to Furs. I don't think the story is the kind of story that some people would like to introduce. Here, of course, I must admit that the opposition, specifically the proposed amendment of the law, has constantly warned or been on the other bank all the time and has opposed the tax registers. I think that at this point, after less than three months of implementation of this law, it is too soon to start with some premature changes, to wait at least three months, not half a year, or more, and then simply find out whether there might be some sort of issue; so whether there really is an anomaly, or whether there is a really bureaucratic obstacle, we simply look at this thing on the collected data and we all listen together to those who warn us about these things. Especially on the data we're going to get, but not like that, over the finger. We will also listen in Desus, as I have already said in the position of the Group of Members, to various small societies, to small stakeholders, to us in particular, to what we have been warned by representatives of pensioners' societies and others, and we will not remain unresponsive to their problems. Together, we will examine and, if necessary, warn the Ministry of Finance that there is also — once again, on the basis of the data collected — a matter that should possibly be changed. Indeed, at the conclusion of this; I do not know exactly whether it has been written that this is a major measure, a major tool for the elimination of the grey economy. I'm not sure that this is a major moment, but I'm sure the tax collectors are one of the measures that will help, I'm sure of it, to fight so hard – yes, it's also a strong – gray economy, not the only measure. And if after two, three months we decide when we first run into any problems or problems, but now we're not going to do that anymore, then I don't think that's the real policy. I think that, in removing the grey economy and such matters, it is necessary to instill in all of our heads - I speak in the first person of the crowd - some consciousness, some respect for some of the applicable standards, so clean up in our heads, and in particular eliminate this mentality, which sometimes becomes Slovenian national sport, that it is essential that you outsmart the country, how you avoid paying a tax, some obligation, and not watch what happens to others. At the conclusion, as we say, we are still — but there is still no emphasis on — advocates of tax receipts. We believe that this is one of the measures that will allow normalisation in this area, but of course we expect a rapid and accelerated analysis of the possible problems that arise in the implementation of the law itself, and of course then, in the interest of all of us, the system - I repeat - "win-win", also remove any deviations in the interest of sound public finances, without restricting the free economic initiative and the favourable life of small societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. And I'm going to start this debate a little differently, because you're already used to it, and I think it's very important. Today, one of you sitting here in Parliament read this – I will show you now, read this! Has anyone read that? Did he read it? Secretary of State, did you read that? Did you read that? I hope you are. And now I'm going to read to you what it says here: Slovenians go crazy, corruption eats up 4 billion euros a year. €4 billion a year, 9.88% of gross social product. And we're in business today, and I don't know how long we're dealing with how much longer we're going to push those most vulnerable groups even harder so they can't survive. Then I'll explain the details. Here, right now, I've calculated, you said that about 75 million euros would flow into the state budget there at the annual level – a little more, a little less, depending on the situation. From what I've read to you here, we'll lose 4 billion euros a year. This means that for 50 years this law must bring us €75 million into the budget to cover the piggy, rhubari, mafia business of the leaders who are behind and who steal through state money, public money 4 billion euros a year! It says here: So there is twice as much damage to corruption as in the European Community. [[Incomprehensible]] There are about 4.5% of us and 9.88% of our gross social product. Now we can easily wonder why these leftist governments are borrowing so much and so much money every year. Where did the money go? Twenty-five billion in the last few years, in the last eight or ten years. Where? Where'd he go? Here, he's going into these stories. Today I read on Twitter that Mr Kocjančič has an open account in the United States. A while ago, we read on Twitter that Stefka Kučan has an open account in the United States. There's millions, hundreds of millions of dollars. Yes, my dear colleagues and colleagues! And we're dealing with the needle here, and on the other hand, the boeings, I don't know what kind of money they drive across borders. Look, I really don't understand this government anymore, this coalition. And those who read this in the Finance Journal today should be so alarming that at that moment they should cancel the meeting of the National Assembly, call an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, even if it takes four and twenty hours here in this Parliament, and immediately urgently urgent meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which should be locked in here to lock itself in without journalists, and ask what to do to make it no longer happen. Who will continue to be responsible? Because right now, he's running this country and the Mira Cerar coalition. A very ethical government, a very ethical government that, with all its work done so far in all its two years, has added to the burden of the weak. She added to the weight of the weakest. What I read here today, and what the Finances have written, must be the key task of everyone sitting here in Parliament. It's a key task! Let's take a quick look at the analysis of why this is happening and how it's possible that this is happening. That someone can steal four billion euros from the state budget in just one year. What are these young people sitting here in two, three, four years? What's gonna happen to them? There will be a collapse of public finances. It will not be for pensions, not for social benefits, not for scholarships, and so on, not for me to mention – if this matter pleases us further. We're now twenty-two billion in debt or thirty-three in whole or forty-four. Do you know what that means? Close to 100% of this country's annual GDP! And it's like nothing happened to us, like nothing in this society happened. Where is your responsibility, my dear colleagues? Where is the responsibility of the government of the coalition? But if you are not able to, what I said before, call immediately, close all institutions, convene emergency sessions, and if we sit here for a week to find this solution, then step away from it! I will not allow you to be indebted to these young people when even social assistance is no longer available. And those pensioners you're always defending, how you fight for them. They already have 300, and I don't know how many pensions they can't live with or die. And you're talking in here I don't know, I really don't know, I don't know if anything has happened to you, that you don't understand the reality of this situation and this society and this country, or that in Slovenia there must be some change, that those of you who support – obviously those who are quiet, sit quietly, and always say that everything is O.K. and right – you support this evil story in this society and in this country. [[…]] And you owe this young generation. What about our grandchildren? I have two grandchildren, one is two and a half years old, and one is three months old. And what am I going to tell my grandchildren when they're a little older, two, three, four years old when they understand what's going on? They'll say my grandfather was four in the National Assembly, but he's always telling the truth, but he couldn't do anything because they kept everything under control from behind the criminal society. And yet those who helped spin the bank hole are put back into the control councils in the administration. This is the ethics of Mira Cerar, the government of Mir Cerar. The government of Mira Cerar – ethical conduct of new faces from which people expected certain changes, important changes. I see it gets worse every day. If I go back to the law a little bit, of course this law, which was proposed in New Slovenia, I support and I am absolutely sure that what is written here is true. I'll quote that first. It was written down, Mr. Karel Lipnik wrote: "Espeas close the stalls. The problem also lies in the fact that the cost of purchasing software and technical equipment is passed on to users, which also increases the inefficiencies of those who work fairly compared to those who did not issue invoices at all. At the end of last year, so did the number of independent entrepreneurs, showing data from the statistical office. In December alone, the number of independent entrepreneurs decreased by 277, since the largest rash is after December 2012. Whether adaptation will continue this year, we will see." So look, you've been able to do this — what? You managed to get entrepreneurs to close the doors. What is the result – we lose jobs, we lose those who pay in the state budget, in the health and pension bills, and finally fight to get some money through some loans, and we give social assistance to people. Is this a normal country? It's not a normal country, it's not a normal government, and it's not a normal coalition that does it! Which does so, watches and permits all these things and then writes, "the country took millions at the time of the introduction, so there is no sly assumption from the vine that due to problems with the introduction of tax registers, economic" – I mentioned earlier – "activities and thus inflows of VAT taxes." That's exactly what I was talking about. "The numbers of the state treasury are worrying, the VAT inflows decreased by more than a tenth at the annual level in February, which shows the first month of the introduction of the tax register. It is interesting, however, that the VAT inflows from imported goods increased by more than six. This can be explained by increasing the activity of consumers in January according to the same period last year, even the view of the number of working days does not explain the decline in VAT revenues after the calculation. Last year was one more day, but it was January 2nd. There were no effects of working days at the end of the month." So, there was no impact on working days at the end of the month. "As last year and this year, the last day of the month was a full-time employee..." And so on. If we've heard what's written here, what I'm explaining to you is this alarming data, I'm sure we should understand together that this tax is, so this Tax Law is one of the stunts that has achieved the opposite effect. It has achieved a reverse effect: we are losing jobs, we are losing money in all the cash registers I have counted, we are losing revenue, as far as VAT is concerned, we are saying that it is for such and other reasons, because there is not enough time left to determine the concrete effects of this law and so on. I'm just telling you, it's a big deal that this government and this coalition are doing. If we wanted to do a black job in some way, like I said, cut it, I think, like I said a hundred times in this House, and I'm going to do it again -- if we wanted to do it, we should lower the cost of work first, and we all know that. That's a fact. Then eliminate administrative burdens, here we have the issue of spatial legislation back here, and establish payment discipline. I think this would be a prerequisite for starting to solve things in this area in the right direction and turning in the right direction. In that case, we wouldn't have happened to people to close their espies, but to open them. We'd open new jobs and so on. Therefore, with the tax registers and the law we have passed, they are most exposed, as has been said many times today, to small entrepreneurs, farmers and civil society. These are societies, i.e. that group of citizens and citizens who are anyway most impoverished. And after what I heard here today, I got the feeling that the coalition completely dead-frozenly rejected the proposal of the law tabled by Nova Slovenije, and they obviously do not care about it and defend it. We find that things are wrong, that they are going in the wrong direction, as we said when this law was being enforced. Certain results are already showing today, but nothing changes. The Desus party doesn't care what the problem is with the pensioners. They don't care. Apparently, they don't care if they can operate normally or not, and so on. Not to mention, we've heard of fire companies today. Do you know how they do it in Austria? Each fire company can do two events a year for its own benefit and pay no cents to the State. This is called a democratic cultural and capable country that hears, feels its citizens and citizens and works in their interests, not in the interests of narrow groups, which then we can bring money into the budget as much as we want, if then 4 billion disappear a year from the budget. [[…]] And I don't think there's a man who's supposed to be hearing this in our society. It's not. Not even young people sitting here on the balcony can hear it and miss it. And since I see that this law will not be supported today, of course, we have already introduced a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party to abolish tax registers. I hope you vote for that then, coalition. But if you will not, I will tell you now, and the young people are right to hear; I am sure that Slovenians and Slovenians, as well as young people, will understand the essence of the problem and vote in the next elections for the one and go to the elections, in particular and vote in favour of the one who will work in their interest for their future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will end the first or second month if we get into the hands of the country's leadership, 100 per cent of the tax revenue will be abolished, I guarantee you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I understand the opposition Members, I also understand my respected colleague Pojbič, whom I, of course, appreciate very much, and I would like to help him with his enthusiasm. I can't agree with Desus trying to get to that point when he tells us that we don't do anything for the pensioners' societies. Of course, that won't hold. Desus is a party named after a pensioner. We are particularly concerned about crosses and problems, as well as about the functioning of pension societies, while we are not so narrowly focused on building on the issue of pensions alone and exclusively. We also have intergenerational dialogue in mind and in the right sense, and we want them to feel good in this country and that no law, including this law we are talking about, affects both young and old, as small entrepreneurs, as crafts, as other societies, and so on. Of course, as I have said, I have said that we have listened to all those who have been addressing us with problems and with the problems they have in implementing this law, and we will also be able to appeal to the Ministry of Finance as soon as the data for the first trimester are known and we will get them together if the need for the law is truly demonstrated to change. As it is said, no marriage is cemented, cemented. It's not lithium concrete, but it's matter that can be altered. And if it becomes clear, we will be susceptible; even more so, we will initiate some changes in this area. And not just that, but the rest of the laws. However, I do not want to be and be attributed to things that we are not responsible for and that we do not support. With regard to corruption in this country, however, colleague Marian, we are on the same shore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u103	Procedural Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I didn't intend to perform procedurally, but I have to say. I propose to Desus when, in the procedure that we have tabled, the law on the abolition of the tax registers is to support this law. That's how he'll prove it and show that he doesn't speak one, but he does another. If you do this, pensioners' societies will function much easier than they do now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Today's debate shows that we obviously have at least two models of understanding the state or time in which we are in Slovenia. One is shown by so-called socialists who want to tax and intimidate good people, and on the other hand we have a more conservative policy, which wants to lower taxes and reward good ones. However, it is crucial that today's debate should not have been necessary for this government and this coalition to have listened at the time of the adoption of the so-called tax registers to all stakeholders who objected to the introduction of the tax registers. Today, when we talk about how the state will gain through these tax boxes 50 or a few plus millions, billions of dollars on the other hand are disappearing, as formerly shown by colleague Marian. When we talk about tax policy, it is as we would like to protect two hectares of forest in the Republic of Slovenia and burn down the entire Slovenian forest. A very small but very stupid decision of this government, which brings in practice a lot of anomalies, questions, especially questions, why we as good social workers, good farmers, good craftsmen receive – a flop per head, a burden that touches their tax lives, and above all a higher administrative burden. And I will start with some practical experiences, and I hope that even coalition MPs have parliamentary offices, go to a hairdresser sometimes, go to some inn, to an auto mechanic to go to a party and hear the problems of people who work in practice and wonder why so many and so many members of the National Assembly have adopted such a law on the recommendation of the Government. I must say that with every other person I meet, there will be a debate about the tax box as soon as possible. Because they are all somehow involved: either as craftsmen, or as mini-farms, or members of different societies in the field of firefighting, youth, sport, tourism and so on and wondering whether this is really the right measure for the less bureaucratic state that this government is forecasting, and by adopting legislation you are doing exactly the opposite. Let me start with the fun, with the firemen. We're so full of mouths about firefighting, and when it comes to making a decision, it's a flop for them. Just remember the attempt to introduce the so-called real estate tax when some of us wanted the firehouses to be exempted, while others claimed that firefighters must be the same as everyone else. The municipality I come from has a firehouse every week in one of the places, but we are not the largest congregation in this country, the average congregation, but very densely sown by voluntary firefighters. And I agree with my colleague, Mr Horvato, who said why these societies work – to help people. The easiest way to help is by getting some source that is not burdened by the mayor, but by feeling that something can contribute to the purchase of better equipment. When society in our congregation met this year, quite a few fire companies said why even have fun. You're all in on it, and in the end, one inspector will come along, and if we don't report what some are leaning, flop, financial punishment. But if we report it, we wonder how many more people will have to work to get something small, and because of this issue of accounts, God forbid it goes on the forms, and they'll earn so much and so much less, so they'll put so much and so much less in their societies. I have to say, I've been president of one company for 10 years or so, and I'm not going to brag about how we got into the Guinness Book of Records. But we've cut this society off, we're changing generations, and now we don't get young people working in society because they're asking, why? You want me to answer then? Everyone tells me, but you fell on your head, and I'm not going into any society anymore, I'd rather go home to the computers than do anything concrete, because at the end of the day, whatever I do, there's going to be an inspection, and I'm going to answer in this way and in another way, and I'm going to take my members on a trip to Planico, or I'm going to collect voluntary contributions, which is stupid, or I have to have a tax checkout. Then the craftsmen, the government's purpose in establishing the tax registers was, will no longer be a grey economy, we will infect it, and everything will be great and fine. But today, one contribution has already shown, January has brought the biggest VAT drop since March. And more importantly, espas are closing down, and in Austria, on the other hand, they are happy to laugh at our stupid actions, because many independent entrepreneurs go to Austria, where craftsmen, especially those small craftsmen, are much more tolerant and encourage them to work as much as possible. Not with us who encourage them to give as much to the state as possible. Last time, we had a very interesting meeting on the Committee on Agriculture on the proposal of New Slovenia, and how tax collectors affected farmers. I hope that this video will play RTV Slovenia 3 more times, because all the anomaly and nonsense of setting up tax registers for small farmers have proved to be. A practical example: With us at the farmers' market in Sevenka, farmers make decisions and have already left farmers' markets because they say, "I'm sorry, but we don't go." Moreover, even that policy, which the Jewish minister says: we encourage locally, we encourage ecologically, but how we will encourage it, but if farmers don't even come to farmers' markets where local self-government offers them the conditions to sell, or if farmers don't get there, then even the buyers won't get there. [[…]] So truly, when we started introducing these tax receipts, I asked myself whether we really couldn't get through a little CAP – a healthy farm of minds – and let those smaller societies, smaller craftsmen, smaller farmers do what they did now, because believe me, those who have not been tax evasion so far will not. Those who have been suppressed, but no tax and no tax changes, no legislation in the field of taxes, except, of course, if we abolish taxes, will encourage them to go into a system they have already used. These tax receipts, however, have brought one socialist thought: let us weave the neighbors and we will have a good time. I've got colleagues, they've been on customs before, they've been on Furs, and they're wondering themselves whether they really need this work, they're doing it because of anonymous applications in some village where the neighbor next door is this one, how he suddenly got a new bike and how he earned it by selling, I don't know, asparagus, potatoes, raspberries and other life needs. If we have brought this tax legislation so far and so minimized our bureaucracy, respected fellow Members of the coalition, then adopt such legislation for yourself, not for people who live by the principle of a healthy farm. I hope that if there is not enough common sense in today's vote to support the New Slovenia bill, be systematic and continue to support the SDS law at the next meeting, which is even more radical, but even more sound, – the abolition of tax registers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Let me say in the introduction that I was not in favour of introducing tax clearance of accounts, but mainly because there was a great deal of caution on the part of the economy, or whether and how many of these small enterprises could, in fact, jeopardize their activity if a mistake occurs and a penalty is actually imposed on them, which could make it impossible, possibly even its existence. On the other hand, it is extremely important data collected by the debtors, such as data on premises, business partners, in short, everything, and if we do not provide adequate security or if there is no intrusion of this information, business operations may also be compromised, as such information can have a significant impact on the fact that someone is more successful on the market than those who regularly paid all the taxes and also made it possible to tax the accounts. Nevertheless, I think we must admit that cyber security in Slovenia is not at such a level that such abuses would not occur. We still have a lot of work to do here and this work needs to be done as soon as possible, and if we had this sorted out, of course, I would also have significantly fewer concerns about tax boxes myself. However, when we are talking today about amending and supplementing the Law on tax clearance of accounts, I must admit that I am opposed to such haste and, last but not least, to the changes in laws. We have already discussed many times in the National Assembly that when we change tax legislation, we must be very careful, as it is also important for investors and all who operate in Slovenia that they have a predictable tax environment. Often amending laws is not a way to say that we provide a predictable tax environment. However, what is particularly important is the fact that, on 2 January 2016, this Act entered into force and that many have carried out all the procedures, have also invested the means to follow this law and before the end of that first deadline, which expires somewhere in May, the law is being amended – so it is a time limit that was also provided for in the law to make the first analysis of the effects of this law or the implementation of this law. This is a very commendable provision of the law, because, by comparison, I will say, we have the opportunity to monitor the implementation of laws in the manner envisaged in this law which entered into force on 2 January. These analyses are those that should give the National Assembly a clear answer as to whether anything should be changed or not. I hope to say that the applicant does not have these analyses, because, last but not least, the Government and the Financial Administration do not have them at their disposal. Such a hurry with the law is not good, and I think that there have been much better debates than we have recently had on the Committee on Agriculture where we discussed this issue, and last but not least there have been many farmers present and all those involved in complementary activities on farms, and this debate has been very welcome. We have been able to obtain a number of information from people working in the field who are facing problems and, last but not least, we have come to guidance on how tax legislation should change in the future. This seems to me to be the right approach, especially at a time when there are no final analyses. So, also in view of the fact that more than 200,000 companies are being tried from somewhere, they are committed to being included in this tax box system, and this law speaks of those who have fewer than EUR 50 000 per year. Which means that some 140 thousand companies would actually fall out of the tax system. This is a very serious intervention in this law and it would be extremely interesting to monitor the explanations, but then, let's say that 30% of those in debt remain committed and 70% not. I think it would be very difficult for the economy to understand this, because one of the clear requirements of the economy, even when the law was adopted, was that there should be no exception to this law. And they weren't to the greatest extent possible when the law was passed. I think they would be in a very difficult situation if we had to explain to those 30% why they remain liable and, of course, 70% of those in debt would not need tax boxes. This procedure is truly premature, too extensive. Many, as I have already said, have had expenses for this, and if you have a cost and then change the law, you will also have to explain to someone why he went into it after two months, say, change the system. This is this principle of a predictable tax environment, which I was also talking about in the introduction. If we do not follow this, despite the good will – and I believe that you want to help – many people will also have a lot of problems because of the approach to amending legislation in a way that is not sufficiently reasonable and thoughtful and is not based on these analyses, which are otherwise envisaged to be done somewhere in May. However, the final scope should be known only after one year in fact of the validity of this law, and more information will then be available. These are the periods where we must really be extremely careful about the impact that this law has actually had and where those possible are really meaningful corrections that need to be made. I think that we have already received some guidance from the Committee on Agriculture, and also from the Ministry of Finance, it has been confirmed that they will draw up certain laws in this area of agriculture, agricultural taxation, so that, of course, it will also be possible to simplify the treatment of certain taxpayers and, of course, also the possibility of exemption from the introduction of tax registers. Similarly, the economy may need to be analysed similarly, and if, for example, this issue that we have on the table today, talked to the Chamber of Commerce, to the Chamber of Commerce and to try to study how this system works, this debate would be – I think – much more constructive and more information would be given to Members as to what is happening in practice at this moment. Thus, the direct introduction of the law and then the consequences are not really good, so that today's debate must also be understood in the sense that we are all aware together of the importance of not burdening the economy or agriculture needlessly and that we are responding to problems. Some of these discussions will probably also affect that we will be ready for that date in May or then in January 2017, when one year from the introduction of this law will pass. That's the way it's welcome on this salary. But I'm sure we'd have a lot of problems if we just passed this law and said 70% of the taxpayers wouldn't have any more tax registers, even though they bought them about a month ago. This cost would then be unjustifiable, and it is likely that someone would also turn to the country for recovery, if he also needed to recover this expense, which he had with the introduction of the tax registers, because for two months he probably did not think about it when it came to it. However, the fact is that control is also taking place during this interim period, but at least after this information is available, not in a way that punishes and penalises the offender immediately, but tries to alert itself to what is probably a welcome and appropriate solution. If this has contributed, at least in part, to the fact that some who were not exactly regular accountants, to do so to a lesser extent or not at all, it is not, in fact, right. The economy also points to this, they want a transparent business situation, they want everyone to settle their obligations, because then there is healthy competition on the market. However, if someone avoids tax obligations, of course we cannot talk about a healthy tax environment and these irregularities are those we need to reduce to the minimum possible extent. I would point out, however, that it may also be necessary to pay extreme attention during this interim period to whether the flow of information does not occur mainly in public calls when companies are competing in these calls, or whether it is not possible to leak information about business partners, the traffic of an undertaking, the extent of the business of an individual undertaking, which may result in someone having this information being more competitive, and to exclude someone who has been well thought to have been removed from this tender into a subordinate position. In short, the debate as such is always welcome in the National Assembly, but this law, I assess, is essentially premature, without adequate analysis and is therefore difficult to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Mrs. Maria Antonija Kovacič should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to all your colleagues and friends and guests! Today, it has already been said that agricultural production is expected to represent around 1.7 % of GDP. However, they say that the grey economy is expected to reduce the country by about 8.7% of GDP. Thus, if there were no taxes of all income from agriculture, there would not be a large drop compared to all the downturn caused by the grey economy. However, we went back to hunting for money or taxes on those smallest taxpayers, in a way that would prevent them from doing so. Instead of speeding up the food chain from producer to consumer, we went to legally destroy those small producers, and I wonder. whether it is in this country's interest that Slovenia has itself produced food, or whether there is no greater interest after the import of foreign food in order to collect those VATes than that we produce ourselves. Is this resentment really so great in Slovenia? My provost excused somehow that we had introduced these tax receipts and that it would not be nice if after a few months we accompanied a law that would have abolished 70% of these tax receipts if people had already invested in it. What nonsense it is to apologize for something bad that we have established that we are not going to break now, or that we are going to let this law be discussed in detail in the procedure and find out what is really wrong with correcting it. We also have practice abroad. I have here nine pages of reasons, problems from agriculture written by various small farmers, cooperatives and so on. Matter is great for the government, especially the agricultural minister, who claims that we have the best law on complementary activities, better than the Austrians, but too bad because we also have financial legislation that makes it impossible. Isn't he also the agricultural vice-president of the government? That is about how he responds to other regulations when my predecessor justified why we should not support this law or abolish so many of these tax receipts for small producers. It is also interesting to see the editorial comment of the financial diary from last week, because I cannot say so wisely, I would read the last two paragraphs where the commentator wonders how such a large part of the economy can be managed by a country that regresses so much that the defence must buy a computer for its work, hire a tax advisor and spend more time to meet the forms than to recruit a recruit. Let's face it! The reader will not buy a villa in Miami with her earnings, but bread and milk in the store. And instead of living up to a few hundred bureaucrats, this money could be spent on better health care, higher pensions, and so on. Those few hundred bureaucrats should find work on the market, but I don't mean consulting contracts with state companies. If not the other one, they can also collect regatta and asparagus. Well, I don't want to be obsessive. All I'm trying to do is point out that every job, even when it comes to regrating, is the main satisfaction of the customer who buys the goods. If the market is not regregated because the government is laying down stupid rules, there are no satisfied customers and, of course, there are no taxes in the state treasury. Finally, the commentator, because he had previously compared the finance minister from Great Britain, who in two years had reduced the excise duty on beer twice. It also explains that probably this finance minister is going to some club in England where beer is poured, so he suggests that it would be good for Dušan Maramor and Miro Cerar to spend some day as defenders. Before that, let them arrange all necessary permits so that the inspectors do not overwhelm them — if you know. At the end of the day, I'd say that river from old Austria. When they said: Fünf Profesoren, Heimat verloren. To translate: five professors, the country lost. Don't we have a lot of professors in the government? Doesn't that confirm that the river holds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you. I just wanted to clarify further that it is not just my position and my view of why not adopt this law. I have tried once again to point out, above all, that the position of the economy was very clear that if we go into this, there should be no exception. This system, a change of law must then be agreed with the economy at least, because this proposal excludes 70% of the debtors, which is certainly not good, and the uncoordinated laws with the economy are not appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor. Let's get Mr. Tillen Christmas ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings again to Madam Secretary and co-workers, and greetings to colleagues and colleagues! Although we have been talking about the tax registers for a long time, the problem has arisen in enforcement, with the actual realization of these cash registers in practice. Just before the adoption of this law last year, it was considered that all those who pay in cash want an account, and those who write an account must, of course, pay the tax. The logical consequence is that offenders are being followed and thus taken action, and this is not the purpose of finding those who honestly declare their arrivals, as has already been said many times today, but to all those who abuse accounts and also to all consumers who do not take the account. We're going to make sure that we're consumers of kings, as we were told. We must be aware that sooner or later offenders will be on the list of inspections and other measures. I believe, however, that the greater confusion has caused an incorrect or over-complicated interpretation of the importance of checking accounts and in misinterpreting technical performance of writing or typing and sending accounts to Furs. From the field, I know that even those pensioners who understood the financial functioning of a society have found that there are many illogicalities in the interpretation, and many administrative burdens on people who want only companionship, healthy ageing and, of course, the legal functioning of a society. In terms of raising awareness of the tax culture of every responsible citizen, we remind ourselves that nothing has actually happened, and so far, no fines have been implemented by introducing the tax registers, only guidance and assistance to the taxpayers. We just want the right information. Tax culture, we know, is not born overnight, and the results show that the response is improving, although we cannot yet talk about perfect success. In the meantime, there have been problems of small debtors whose voice needs to be heard and the possibility of relief in this area has been clarified. In the Desus Group, it is already agreed that the debate should be clarified and, following an analysis of the situation, we will help small undertakings with appropriate solutions, with justifiable reasons for amending the existing legislation. But we will not support today's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Tilen Bozič has the floor to prepare Dr Lázsló Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. I have very little time, so in my opinion I still insist that this solution, which we adopted last July, is good, the goal of a grey economy, the goal, is to say, in some way also to reduce work in a black indirect way, helps the Financial Administration to effectively control and so on. As I have foreseen at the beginning, given that we do not yet have concrete data on the table – with the exception of some who today have a little special interpretation of VAT for the month of January – it is difficult to develop on this basis to say a positive debate in this direction, how some solutions can be found, at least in this area, yet. I also agree that not everyone is delinquent; what he said or in such a comparable way was said by Mr Horvat. And that's a fact. However, by drilling holes we allow those who are potential delinquents, because the opportunity to work a thief to use some practices that are not appropriate. We have a double plus in this direction, perhaps to relieve ourselves of Sasa’s contribution. I agree that improvements are possible. One of these, for example, came from the Mountain Association recently and they said that 20 huts have no access to the Internet, we need a slightly longer deadline for fiscalization. Okay, we're talking about this. And now what my friend Pojbich said to himself again. He presented a case, saying that as far as corruption is concerned, which is not today a topic, but indirectly related to it, there are data from 1995 to 2014. And I fully agree with him that he has nothing to say to his granddaughter if I have correctly understood that after four mandates he has done nothing about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I am joining those who are looking at this bill with a slightly broader context, so I am not just focusing on the proposed content, but, above all, I am looking at this as a reminder that further efforts are being made to improve this matter. I also agree with those who highlight the complexity of this matter, especially tax legislation as a whole, and I am not in favour of any sudden change, but we must also accept the fact that, unfortunately, some problems are already relatively fast or early in this law. Although the three months are probably not enough for some in-depth findings, it is clear that some vulnerable groups that have already been mentioned most of the time are experiencing problems. And what is even more problematic from my point of view is that it is to see the contradiction between the meaning of the provisions and the effectiveness of the legislation adopted. It has already been said that the problems of small farmers with complementary activities, societies in the public interest, and not only firefighters, as has been pointed out today, but also many other societies, but I agree that the specificities of fire companies in the Slovenian space are all the more important. We can also mention the problem of students who organise a matter once a year and have problems with it, which has already been discussed elsewhere, so I would not go further. On the basis of what was said to me in my parliamentary forums and in our meetings, we have somehow concluded that the biggest problem is for craftsmen and entrepreneurs operating on the ground or selling their products from door to door, as they call it. So these are undoubtedly areas and problems that we would like to deal with. I wouldn't mention specific cases, just maybe one absurd situation that I thought was interesting. Someone who has come 20 kilograms of cabbage or 20 kilograms of tail and sells it at home does not need to start a tax box, but if it cuts and skis, he must already carry out this procedure, which I doubtless think is a prudent nonsense. And in this direction, I also understand this proposal of today's law to seek, in particular, an upgrade for anomalies or to improve those inconsistencies that are unfortunately emerging. I agree that this law may not be sufficiently ready at this time, but I will not oppose it in its decision-making, but as I have already pointed out, I take it as a warning, and from the point of view of our Premur region, I can also point out that there are less favourable solutions in our law than they are in the Hungarian or Austrian law, which may then be taken into account in some upgrade of this law. Finally, I should like to point out that, many times, Mr Financial Minister Mr Maramor has mentioned that it is best that there are no exceptions to such legislation or that there are not many exceptions. I agree with this in principle, but at the same time, I believe that if we can only upgrade and improve this situation and, above all, in the most vulnerable groups, we can find a better solution and avoid contradiction, then it is our duty or primarily it is for the Government to propose it. It is our duty to accept it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. The word is from a representative of the Magi Government. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Tax registers are only one measure to address one of the areas of tax evasion. It is one of the areas of the grey economy and it works in part in black. In no way are the tax remittances the only measure that can address these issues, but they are an important part of the measures to be implemented in this regard. As a result, tax credits should be seen in the context of all other measures carried out by the Financial Administration and the Ministry, on the one hand, of raising awareness of the importance of paying taxes, as well as of awareness of what the funds raised by taxes are actually spent on. This needs to be added to the measures taken by the Financial Administration in the field of black and employment and also inflows to tax havens where other instruments are used, such as the exchange of data in international tax matters and the change in circumstances in the international community, the jurisdictions considered tax havens have, in the recent period, taken a massive approach to multilateral instruments for automatic exchange of information on assets in accounts. This is the assets of foreign taxpayers in the accounts in these environments, and this enables us or will enable us to take further steps in this regard after obtaining the first data in the following year. However, this range of various measures does not reduce the importance of tax receipts as one of the instruments to combat the grey economy. Neither the Ministry nor the Financial Administration are blinding ourselves to the problems that arise in implementing these issues in practice and most of them, and we are dealing with them in a divisive way in our daily communication with interested parties. The problems that have been highlighted today are also a complementary activity in connection with the basic agricultural and forestry activities and activities of NGOs, especially smaller societies, or in our efforts at our service. However, unlike the bill's proponents who assess that the issue of checking accounts is important, we ask the Ministry and the Financial Administration whether it is not the cause of the problems they face elsewhere; that is, in the provisions of the law which requires them to issue an account. As a result, our assessment is that the problem needs to be addressed at a second level. With regard to complementary activities through the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Law and non-governmental organisations, we need to raise a serious question as to when the bill is actually needed, when it presents an administrative burden, and in this area, I can point out certain changes that can be implemented by implementing legislation and there is no need to amend the law. Why did we predict a relatively conservative additional income of EUR 50 to 100 million at the time of the introduction of the tax register? Because, unlike other countries that have introduced tax bills in the same sense as we know in Slovenia, we suddenly build on the previous measures of virtual tax warehouses and tied accounts that have already brought us around 100 million euro of additional income on an annual basis only from value added tax. Once again, I would like to stress the VAT revenues this year; it is true that deductions or deductions or VAT returns are made every month, but this year is a transitional year, which means that in February, more VAT returns were paid for 26 million euros than in last February's equal withdrawal. At the same time, higher import VAT also means higher value added tax returns with a maximum of 21 days. All of this resulted in a net effect or a net inflow from VAT in numbers, as you mentioned in this February, slightly less than in last February, but once again, VAT charged in those activities where cash is predominantly used or more frequently used in cash was almost 10 million higher in this February when tax liabilities are paid for January. Or, speaking of relative figures, at the 4% increase in VAT inflows after calculation of all taxpayers, only these taxpayers have almost 8% growth, which is also partly due to the introduction of tax rebates, but more detailed analysis, as I mentioned earlier, is still working and we do not want to give this first data in full advance to the taxpayers, but we want to carry out further analyses. We were asked why we are not analysing the VAT inflows since the purchase of software and rentals and so on equipment for tax receipts. Most of the participants in the compulsory clearance of accounts are still VAT-bound or monthly or three-monthly, and these costs can be deducted as entry VAT. Given that data are not selected by individual payments or by individual costs, but by commodity groups for a general and reduced tax rate, such analysis is not even possible. Maybe it's just a response to the end of espionage or employment. I would not have hoped to say that the abolition of individual espies last year is due to the introduction of tax registers. Let me remind you that the Financial Administration and the Labour Inspectorate, at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, have intensified their work to identify so-called fictitious independent entrepreneurs, who have been reported as espas, but who are actually working in an independent working relationship, and would prefer to attribute this decline in the number of espas to those activities aimed at preventing abuse in the area of establishment or carrying out independent activities. Let me get this straight. The motioner's arguments that the law should be amended at this time do not convince him. The current problems encountered in the implementation of the law can be addressed by carefully examining, for each case, where the problem actually arises and solving it at its source. I also cited two such cases in my implementation. However, as soon as possible to prepare a comprehensive analysis of the introduction of tax registers, we can also discuss further whether any change in the system of clearance of accounts is actually necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to thank everyone for the debate; there were some constructive proposals, and there were some debates that spoke against our law, but with a great deal of smoke in the throat. I hope that time will also melt and that rhetoric will be clear, honest and honest, and especially not rhetoric, because rhetoric cannot keep our people alive, measures are needed. Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacic from Desus surprised me positively. She said that Desus would use appropriate measures to rehabilitate or adapt the existing law on tax clearance of accounts. God forbid it's like that! Why have we spoken so many times about us proposing your coalition agreement, which you have signed? The fact is that in the chapter Paying Discipline and the fight against the grey economy writes the following, you know this in mind, I am allowed to read: "It will be necessary to strengthen the supervision of the payment of contributions and taxes by employers and to introduce tax receipts to curb the grey economy." Here we understand that tax remittances are, in fact, a key instrument for bridging the grey economy that needs to be plagued. I have been talking alone about three to four billion volumes of the grey economy and if we are to halve it, we need to get half a billion in the state budget through tax revenues. There is something, however, dear colleagues and colleagues, but it is time to find out, in view of the circumstances in Europe, that we are actually all global village and our economy is working in this global village, and it is time to realize that we also need it in Slovenia, many countries have graduated from this issue, that we also need a new business model in Slovenia. We need a new business model. Just like we've done so far, it's not going to work and it's not going to work. Mr Marble, Minister of Finance, has repeatedly warned that economic growth is slightly reduced, but it is positive and I say thank God that, but Mr Marble adds, it is fragile. Yeah, I agree. She's fragile. And let us be honest and write this economic growth that we have now for quite some time to those who are solely responsible for it. And who is it? This is a purely Slovenian economy. No one else. It will be difficult for you, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, to tell me that a government measure has contributed to the 0.1% point of economic growth. You'll find it hard to convince me. We are now being punished by Europe for needing fundamental structural reforms, but it seems that we do not really understand or understand what structural reforms are. Here, of course, I would like to say at least two or just two points. The first is the abolition of pension fraud – yes, it does sound bad, but that is actually the case. And another, regulatory and tax burden of work. We, colleagues and colleagues, have to work on this, make such decisions to encourage people to work and motivate jobs and entrepreneurship. As far as pension fraud is concerned, the matter is very clear. See, in 2005, 1.67 active citizens worked for one pensioner, 10 years later, last year only 1.37 active citizens worked for one pensioner. And why am I talking about fraud? I am speaking because from 2008 to 2015 we have put almost €11.5 billion from the state budget into the pension fund. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yes, you do. Before you log in, I would like to warn you that you can log in by pressing the button to turn the microphone on. If you would also like to discuss the proposal's representative, Mr Jožef Horvat and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government, then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Maybe just two more sentences. In the SDS Group, we have also pointed out the case of school bazaars as regards tax receipts. The decision was even adopted as to how the Government's position would be publicly published within 30 days and the Government's position was written on four sides, and it is essential to conclude: "In view of the above, the Ministry of Finance concludes that in the case of sales of goods and services in school markets, it is necessary to issue invoices and, in the case of non-cash payments, their confirmation with the tax authority. However, schools can organise both the organisation of markets and the way tax obligations are met in different ways, in accordance with the applicable legislation." And in December 2016, we will have the same problem with school bazaars as we had in December 2015. And more to illustrate and conclude, the theory of this government is the fight against the grey economy, and practice is less tax and more grey economy. The theory of this government is effective control, but in practice, ask the employees of Furs what nonsense happens in their daily worker when they hunt chicken thieves and billions of taxpayers go abroad. In short, tax receipts should be abolished as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I forgot to say that every debater has two minutes of 33 hours. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u126	I sincerely thank all of you for taking part in today's debate, which has certainly shown, among other things, that changes in this area are necessary. We talked about the problems that firefighters will have in organizing firemen during the spring and summer months that are coming, and we stressed the nonsense that Slovenian farmers are going to be dealing with; from what problems the defenses have, even how things get complicated on their vacations and when they collect money on buses. Last but not least, the vast majority of you today also highlighted the problems faced by school bazaars or other charities due to these tax receipts. Whatever you are turning and looking at, changes are necessary, and today, when this law is being addressed, we have a unique opportunity to make these changes. If you adopt the law today, it means that we have only allowed it through the first reading and that we can then add it to the working body with the changes that have been highlighted in today's debate. If not otherwise, we can make at least minimal changes that will not significantly endanger public finances or, if you want, as some of you have said today, that this law would virtually put everything together. But if you leave it through the procedure, you give at least an opportunity to eliminate small nonsense, such as the one that I have pointed out in the case of automatic machines, that it is not necessary for machines offering products to have tax registers, for machines that provide or sell services, but for those goods it is necessary. In short, all of us today have a fine opportunity to do something good for the Slovenian economy and for Slovenian people, only courage must be given and the right decision must be made when voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will support this bill, as I have said before, I have no intention of re-applying to the debate now, but I have just been in the office and I have heard that, Mr Tillen Christmas, this one of ours, I will say, once, two years of elected Member-in-Office, but I do not think that there is enough instrument for me to hope when I am in the Chamber to say what I should say, and always come forward when I come to the office, or to the toilet, or to lunch. A few things got me wrong today. First time. I say again, and I will re-emphasize. It says here that Slovenia alone loses 4 billion euros a year, or 9.88% of its GDP. He loses 4 billion a year. That's what it says in here. The other thing that seems very important to me is this. Mr. Tillen Christmas, I'll tell you again, and remember this well, you will not misinterpret my words. I have made it very clear that I am four mandates in the National Assembly, but I have not had the opportunity to do what it takes to get this country out of the mess that's going on in this country, but not because I did bad work in the National Assembly, but because most of this mandate was led by a corrupt left; a corrupt left that brought this country to 33 billion debt. From the age of seven, she led this left government for six years. Mr Tillen Christmas, remember well what I'm going to say: I was elected to the National Assembly for four terms, not because I'm beautiful because people have made this decision. But you believe me well that you are now elected a thousand, and one question is in the background, if you may ever be. There is certainly a great difference between us – Mr Tillen Christmas, listen to me. It's a huge difference. And it is also true that if you are saying that we say what is right from face to face, but certainly not — and it may happen to me personally sometimes to let myself down to the personal level, but it is wrong. But that's wrong. Because I don't think that today I was talking about Till Christmas in my room, and I didn't mean Tilna Christmas, or the last time you went out of Parliament when you were smart here, not the last time. That is why I find this extremely unfair, uncultured and extreme – I will say that I will not say what. Finally, you will see how people will vote for you in the next election, for your client, and especially for your principles when we talk about ethics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you. I'll come to the end because it looks like I was misunderstood or I'm just gonna start with that. [[…]] I only said that the study referred to here relates to the period 1995 to 2014. When you were talking about corruption, you were after all setting up this government, after all us, after all me as a coalition MP, to do nothing. Tax registers are one of the measures that went into the area, not directly to corruption, but we also deal with them. The fact is that we have started with measures. You know it's not easy, and there's quite a few downfalls behind us. But at least as far as I'm concerned and as far as I can tell for my colleagues, Members here from the SMC, I think there are also coalitions: there is also a will and a goal to be done in this area. I hope we're successful at this. But I agree that maybe we're not going as well as we'd like. I've come to this building with a certain grill, and that's why I don't just forgive myself when there's this kind of attack. Otherwise, the following issue was again said that lower taxes mean less grey economies. I have explained this here many times before, so that I would not go into this again, but I must stress this because every time someone says that this correlation is true, I just have to say that this correlation does not apply on the basis of data. Because this information is at least neutralised if it has been repeated so many times. The other things we had today were quite a lot. These were mentioned again — including chicken thieves and so on. [[…]] I see just one option in the tax registers, given that the verification system is primarily based on data coming in, the right control or study of these large databases can be automatically detected, detected and dealt with only in a targeted way, not all of them being accused of somehow wanting to do bad things. In this way, however, much more energy from inspectors can be directed towards what you yourself have said, which is the problem. That is, when there are some sophisticated, thoughtful ways to avoid taxes, how to go into corruption and so on. I think it's with these kinds of ways of looking for those little things to automate the system, and then it can significantly increase the energy to detect and chase the big one in some way, I think it's still the right way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam President. If we ignore this fact that we have a tax box, because it was one of the items in the coalition contract, and if we look at what those are as basic objectives or why we have a tax box, we see that this is a solution to the problem of the grey economy. Now if we look back a little bit. 1. Seven. 2013 has entered into force virtual tax warehouses which prohibit the use of computer programs that allow the deletion or repair of accounts. Why were they introduced? Well, to solve the problem of the grey economy. Similarly, in 2015, with the beginning of 2015, when the so-called bound accounts for all those operating in cash came into force – again due to the grey economy. And let's see, with the beginning of this year's year, we got tax receipts. I don't know how many times it's been heard today. I really wonder, given how many times we have taken this problem, I will say very disproportionate measures, whether then one thorough analysis was actually done before this new measure was taken. Since it is simply as Weber mentioned earlier, the predictable tax environment is extremely important. I completely agree with that. But with what has happened in recent years in this area, in the area of 'how' to reduce the grey economy, I really cannot agree if this is a proportionate measure. Really, Madam Secretary of State, how much has this grey economy been reduced by now that we have tax receipts? What's the key? We don't get those who don't issue bills with tax receipts. Still no, they still haven't registered their activities, they're still doing the job, just like they did before. You don't hunt those. In particular, you hunt down small entrepreneurs who have been deeply affected by this, a large part of civil society, through societies and, last but not least, all who carry out complementary activities on the farm. Complementary activity on the farm, which farmers were told years ago that without some added value, without additional activity you will find it difficult to survive. And now you've hit them on the head in some way. Look, the only thing that's acceptable is that we actually shut down the tax receipts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word is from a representative of the government, mag. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much again for your word. I will not repeat what I have already pointed out in previous performances, perhaps only with regard to slumbers or persons who perform activities but do not issue invoices. Of course, the tax certification of these persons cannot be achieved directly, and this is what we stressed when the basic bill was in force or at the time of the consideration of the basic bill, including in the National Assembly. However, this law is important for one reason, since field controls will be able to devote more time to the supervision of those who carry out the activity and, above all, to the financial administration with existing staff and financial resources. This is why the Financial Administration, in this year's monitoring programme, has given particular attention to hide-and-seekers, designed a specific project and also dedicated a number of inspectors and a certain number of hours. The problem of storms needs to be addressed in different ways than in tax registers. Tax remittances establish the conditions under which this problem can also be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you very much. This is obviously an extremely important content, so at this point in the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly, we will spend all the time until the last second. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, I thought the big week would make you feel a little bit soft. That you may accept at least one part of our solutions and allow this solution to come to another reading on the Committee on Finance. I thought, I'm just naive that you'll be listening at least for voluntary firefighting in Slovenia. No, you're going after the firefighters, you'd be, dear colleague and colleague of the coalition, responsible for fewer firemen this year. In this analysis you are predicting, I will also ask you to tell how many of these joys will be less, how much consumption will be reduced, how much will result in the lower income of voluntary firefighting companies and how much firefighting companies will be equipped in Slovenia for this purpose. These are relevant questions, you who know almost everything will probably be able to present such answers in the analysis. And for finals, colleagues and colleagues, I don't like the kind of policy you run. This policy does not address reform solutions, just cosmetic ones, as I have already said many times before, and this policy is clearly being taken too slowly or not at all. And in a way, the kind of way that voters will react to and then make their decisions to the number of votes they can expect in the elections. Such a policy may appeal to a certain number of voters, but this unfortunately does not bring results and new jobs. And here is a key problem of how many jobs Slovenian entrepreneurs will open up for the introduction of the Law on tax clearance of accounts. Maybe those at the FURS who have to look at one ton, yes, one ton of envelopes they got, and now they're going to process these envelopes, these tax bills that are probably going to go into drawing. With one ton of paper you're dealing with in the third millennium! Too bad, I'm scared. Thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION AND HEALTH PROTECTION LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5 Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the group of 26 Members and Members with their first signed magi is a group of 26 Members. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! We Christian Democrats have prepared a new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which fairly regulates the regressive claims that the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia applies from employers in case of injury to work or occupational disease. Regret claims or claims for damages arising from an accident at work or occupational disease or against persons responsible for the damage caused shall be submitted in accordance with Slovenian legislation by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. The obliging law of the Republic of Slovenia defines liability as an obligation for an individual to settle the damage that he is responsible for and which arises only if four conditions are met – inadmissibility, damage, causation and liability. Indemnity liability for health insurance is more precisely regulated by the Health and Health Insurance Act. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has the right to request from the employer compensation for damage to the amounts paid if the injury, illness or death of the worker is due to the failure of the employer to take appropriate measures for the safe working environment and the safety of persons. The bond law provides that the court, having regard to the property situation of the injured person, may order the responsible person to pay a lesser compensation than the amount of the damage if the damage was not caused on purpose and not for serious negligence, and that the responsible person is of weak property status and would, at the time of payment of the full compensation, settle in the absence of compensation. New Slovenia's proposal regulates employers' claims in a way that they are responsible for injury at work and occupational disease only in the event of gross negligence, while in other cases the costs are reimbursed by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, where employers pay their contributions. The purpose of the safe and healthy work regime is to prevent injuries at work and occupational diseases and to ensure social security for those who are injured at work or who are sick at work for a occupational disease, but at the same time in a predictable legal and business environment that does not endanger the existence of the cause. Christian Democrats feel that the current legislation is unfair, especially to a small employer who answers unlimitedly. Self-employed entrepreneurs, even with their personal property, even though a damaging event with high material damage has been caused by some small oversight of an obligation that is able to detect little negligence. Indemnification claims may jeopardise the business of some employers, particularly those who are economically weaker, small and medium-sized. Nor can employers be able to protect the risk associated with the regression claims from commercial insurance companies because they do not offer these services. In 2013, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance recorded an inflow of EUR 213 000 249 in 2013 and EUR 456 thousand 110 in 2014 and EUR 176 thousand 901 in 2015. In New Slovenia, we therefore propose that the employer's liability is only in case of occupational illness, injury at work or death due to gross negligence on the part of the employer or on purpose, whereas in the event of low negligence, the regression requirement is not enforced, as all employers pay a contribution of 0.53% in case of injury at work and occupational illness in the case of compulsory health insurance. According to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, the revenue from this title was EUR 73 million in 2014 and EUR 74 million in 2015, which is used to finance all health programmes. Employers' responsibility for compensation is limited to 20 times, as proposed by the amendment, if the damage is caused by great negligence, and unlimited if the damage is intentionally caused. The restriction is to avoid jeopardising the existence of a cause of injury, especially by small and medium-sized employers, as it does not allow for their stable and predictable operations. I'm concluding. The New Slovenia proposal does not go any way of reducing the importance of safety and health at work, nor does it reduce the employer's standards of responsibility, but more equitable burden sharing among all stakeholders. Thank you very much, and I apologize for the time lapse.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u139	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u140	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of Parliament, distinguished Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia received in the opinion of the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Mag. Matthew Tonin. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia fully opposes the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which amends the fundamental principle of compensation law in order to compensate the person who caused the damage at the level caused. In our opinion, the bill also opposes the basic principles of the Law on Safety and Health at Work and also interferes with the fundamental obligations of the Labour Relations Act. The rules in force are based on the fundamental principle of compensation law in order to compensate the person who caused the damage at the level caused. The proposal does not follow the principle mentioned above, as it proposes an arrangement that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance would have the right to request from the employer the damage caused only when the disease, injury or death of the insured person was caused by the employer’s intention or serious negligence to suspend the implementation of safety or health measures at work, appropriate sanitary measures or other measures prescribed or prescribed for the safety of persons. Furthermore, the proposal further limits the employer's responsibility by proposing to limit the amount of damage caused in the event of gross negligence to the 20th timer of the lowest pension base. The compensation obligation is of a civil nature and therefore the purpose is not to penalise the responsible person, but to establish the situation prior to the occurrence of the injury. Thus, the primary function of compensation law is to eliminate the unfair situation in which the injured person was found, namely, to eliminate his deprivation or injury. This is the so-called countervailing function of compensation law. The draft law follows only partially the principles of compensation, but only when the disease, injury or death of the worker was caused by the intentional abandonment of the implementation of safety or health measures at work and limits compensation liability in the event of serious negligence and completely forgets compensation in the event of light negligence, even in spite of the fulfilment of the general assumptions of the civilian offence, that is the wrongfulness of the conduct of the damage. The proposed solution reduces the importance of existing legislation in the field of safety and health at work if it does not completely destroy it. As proposed, it means that in the field of safety and health at work, the standard of employer responsibility would be substantially reduced. At the same time, such arrangements would be contrary to other principles of protection at work, as provided for in Article 5 of the Law on Protection and Safety and Health at Work and to promote a working relationship. The employer is a professional in a particular activity and must therefore be aware of all safety measures and therefore be subject to stricter criteria than the average person or employee who is the weaker party in this case. In the light of what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has said, it reiterates that it does not support the proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, since the proposal therefore opposes the rules of compensation for employers' liability, the rules of protection and health at work and the obligations of the employer arising from the working relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u141	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, President. Nicely greeted colleagues? Greetings, Your Honor! The Health and Health Insurance Act provides that the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia may apply a claim for compensation in the event of injury at work from those who intentionally or negligently caused health damage to the insured person, it is said, from employers in the event that the disease, injury or death of the insured person was caused by a lack of adequate hygiene measures, occupational health measures or other measures designed for the safety of persons. In particular, the law highlights the employer’s responsibility in the event that the employer does not provide real data or intentionally violates legislation. The provisions of the law also relate to the liability of an employee in the event of an offence committed. The law also provides that the institution has the right to demand that all the damage caused be compensated by the employer. According to existing legislation, such compensation claims may jeopardise the business of certain employers. This is mainly the case for economically weaker employers, so to speak, small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are not able to secure the risk associated with the regression claims in commercial insurance companies because these insurance services are not insured. In view of the changes and additions to the law, the employer's liability is proposed only if the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence. Where the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases where negligence is easier, the employer should not be liable. The proposed solution therefore excludes the employer's liability in the event of his ease of negligence and limitation of liability when the damage is caused by the worker's negligence. The employer would therefore answer if the damage was done on purpose or if it was serious negligence. However, light negligence would be a burden of compulsory health insurance, where employers pay a special contribution to injuries at work and occupational diseases. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion on this point, stated that it is, of course, opposed to the proposal for amendments to this Act, as it is changing the fundamental principle of compensation law, which provides that damage at the level caused by it will be reimbursed by the person who has just caused it. It is true that the employer must in all respects ensure the safety and health of workers in relation to work, but it is well known that both the employer and the worker face unforeseen circumstances in their work, which are not under the control of employers and workers. Sometimes such events cannot be avoided. For example, a worker who is under severe pressure to reach his standard is, of course, also partially under stress, somewhat overlooked in his work process, causing so-called lax negligence at work. So in this case, the employer will be punished. However, when it comes to serious injury at work, which can cause permanent consequences, disability, or even death, the cost of treatment may be very high. Also high are the workers' costs of absence from work, which can last even after a month or more. And such a request can reach up to €80,000, and in a number of cases it can reach more. In the event of disability, however, we should not forget the life pension. Such requests may already endanger the business of a number of companies. The responsibility of individual independent entrepreneurs is particularly problematic as they are responsible for business obligations with all their personal property. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also opposes the amendment of the law concerning the limitation of the amount of damage caused to 20 times the lowest pension base. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that the current solution for determining the level of liability of compensation left to the court is correct. But we know what happens and how many times in our courts. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, however, states in its letter to this point that anyone who causes harm to another is obliged to repay her if she fails to prove that the damage was caused without his fault, as the threat of compensation, of course, discourages her from misbehavior and employer's misbehavior. Here, I must admit, it raises the question of how many such cases there are in order for an employer or an employee to cause some damage on purpose. Of course, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia does not provide data in its writing, or record cases of intentional mistreatment and how many of these cases there are, of course, if they are. I don't think there's much of a case like this. Mistreatment is mostly due to ignorance or in all too many cases due to overcrowding of workers. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance also states in its letter to this point that it recorded an inflow of 1.2 million in 2013, 1.4 million in 2014 and 1.2 million in 2015. It is interesting that the Ministry of Health replied to the question in response to the question raised by its colleague Mahnič, citing: "Looking at the business report of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, in 2014 this had 20.2 million revenue from the regression claims. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has data for each debtor separately, but there is no data collected according to the status form.” End of quote. Dear colleagues! What kind of data should we believe now? Information from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance or data from the Ministry? We will, of course, support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u143	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me say in the introduction that the Desus Group will not support the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act. According to our assessment, the proposal of New Slovenia largely obliges employers to bear responsibility for the occurrence of injury, illness or death of an employee or insured person, as specified in the law, which is unacceptable for our parliamentary group. At the same time, it limits the bill's amount of compensation to 20 times the lowest pension base. New Slovenia's proposal goes in the opposite direction, as advocated by Desus, where we advocate a clearly defined responsibility of the employer, who must invest in the health of his employees by ensuring consistent protection at work and providing favourable working conditions, which ultimately leads to greater satisfaction in the workplace, lower sickness, fewer injuries at work, fewer hospital stocks and also greater productivity. However, in the proposal for a novelty, the employer would be obliged to pay for the damage caused in any form whatsoever only in cases where it was caused by the employer's gross negligence or where it was caused on purpose. However, the question arises as to who will be able to prove to the employers that it was, for example, great and not minor negligence or that it was caused on purpose. On the other hand, the practice on the other hand all too often shows that workers are blamed for accidents at work, while employers are often held accountable. In fact, in the Desus Group, we are surprised by the proposal's approach to this law, because the proposal clearly protects the employer at the expense of the worker's safety, which, in relation to the employer, is weaker and in a subordinate position, while the employer largely detracts from the responsibility for causing injury, illness or death of the worker in the performance of his duties. In such a proposal, it is difficult to detect the values that are often referred to by the novel proposal. The new Slovenia is deceiving the fact that the law will have no financial and no other consequences. This is something that we cannot agree with in our parliamentary group, because if we look at the data of the Health Insurance Office, it recorded in the years 2013 to 2015 an inflow of between 1 million and almost 1 million euros. The reduction in the liability of employers would undoubtedly also reduce the flow of funds to the health treasury. Less money for a health-care register based on regression claims simply means less money for the implementation of health-care programmes from public funds and more from the pockets of patients, which I hope is not the point. The draft law will also have effects on the economy and the social sector, contrary to what the novel's applicants have said, because we are convinced that the proposal does not follow the principle of fairness, as the motioner claims. Nor does the proposal of the novel protect the right to personal dignity and security, the inviolability of the human body and mental integrity and the right to a healthy living environment. The draft law opposes the fundamental principles of safety and health at work, as it changes the basis of the compensation law, so that the cause of the damage in the amount caused should be reimbursed. For one more reason, we can also agree with the Government's view that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The limitation of compensation liability and compensation gives employers the wrong message about the obligation to establish and ensure safety and health at work. As we believe in the Group of Members that the proposal for a new law sets the economic interests of employers high above ensuring the protection and health of workers, we will vote in the Group of Members, as I have already mentioned, that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u145	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, for them mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you very much, President for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering one of two substantively identical proposals for the amendment of the law, which was tabled in the parliamentary procedure by New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. We'll deal with one today, one on Thursday. Both novels are contentually summarising the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce regarding the so-called regression claims. Allow me to briefly summarize what the proposer wants to achieve by amending the Health and Health Insurance Act. Indemnification claims or regression claims have recently been a common topic faced by employers. Therefore, through their associations and chambers, they advocate amending the rules under which the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia would recover the damage caused by the cost of treatment, payment of salaries and other costs due to damage to the workplace. Employers point out that these claims may endanger their business and require that employers and employees share responsibility for injuries at work. The health insurance company does not check the liability of employees for injury in the workplace, and employers may prove the fault of the employee in the proceedings. Nor can employers be able to protect the risk associated with the regression claims from commercial insurance companies because they do not offer these services. With regard to this content, the other party points out that the purpose of the regression claims is by no means to charge the medical bills, but rather to repay the funds paid for the fault of someone else, i.e. in the event of damage at work from the employer who has breached or abandoned measures to ensure the safe work of workers. It adds that regression claims even force employers to take care of the working environment and protect workers from threats. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has joined the intensive enforcement and, of course, the recovery of regressive claims for treatment costs due to injuries at work. This is also followed by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, which requires the reimbursement of damage caused by the employer, if the insured person’s disability, the need for foreign assistance and service or death is due to the failure to carry out safety and health measures at work and other measures prescribed or prescribed for the safety of persons. Employers expose the mania of the ceiling for compensation and also that there is no distinction between whether any damage was caused by negligence or by chance, which they consider to be a heavy burden, especially for small businesses and craftsmen. On the other hand, we are faced with arguments from the opposite side that, if we were to limit the amount of regressive claims, this damage caused by the employer through his inappropriate conduct and beyond a specific border would burden the tax box and thus solidarity of all contributors, including those employers who consistently and exemplaryly implement all safety and health measures at work. It is clear from the above that it is a difficult walnut to crush by all the parties involved. In our view, this issue is often the subject of discussion in the Economic and Social Council, where, in our view, it also belongs. We believe that the solution must be the result of consensus between all stakeholders, so that I cannot agree on a unilateral amendment of legislation without agreement and we will vote in the Social Democrats' Group that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u147	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, chairman. We will vote against this proposal in the United Left because it would reduce safety at work. It is our view that employers' responsibility for the safety and health of workers should not be reduced. We come from the conclusion that accidents are too much and that the situation in this area should never, by definition, be satisfied. In particular, we should not be satisfied in Slovenia, where the situation is not improving. The last report of the Labour Inspectorate shows that for the last three years, on average, 9 000 509 accidents per year have been reported, of which 439 are more severe, the number of accidents is even increasing. In 2014, 23 accidents ended with the death of the worker, the largest since the outbreak of the crisis in 2009. The Labour Inspectorate notes that it is necessary to quote: "The causes of accidents also in 2014 are mainly at a low level of safety culture for both employers and workers, risk underestimation and in some cases the inexperience of workers." End of quote. This finding needs to be complemented, the worker is always in a subordinate position and cannot organise the work process. The employer is also legally responsible for occupational safety training and it is clear that safety at work will only increase through the active efforts of employers. These measures generate certain costs, they spend some working time, so, of course, employers avoid them, saying they need to be forced into implementing security measures. The provision that the applicants would like to amend is designed precisely for this purpose, its main purpose is not to increase the revenue of the Health Insurance Institute, but rather to prevent the impact on employers. If this proposal were to be adopted, this preventive effect would be significantly reduced, resulting from all three proposed amendments. Let's go in order. Firstly, the proposal foresees that the employer would only be liable in compensation for the damage caused by gross negligence and therefore fall short of the liability for the damage caused by slight negligence. In this regard, it must be immediately said that the injuries caused by slight negligence are no easier than those caused by gross negligence. Therefore, this proposal does not address the liability of compensation for easier injuries, but removes liability for all types of injuries, and in principle for fatal ones. The difference between severe and malpractice is only that in severe negligence the employer is aware of the potential for damage. In the case of light negligence, however, he does not realize it, but he should be aware of it as a caring person. And that is precisely the purpose of all our labour law and labour protection legislation. If someone chooses to live off the work of others and is to set up a company for this purpose, they must take maximum care of safety at work. It's not enough to eliminate those dangers that every layman notices, but it has to eliminate all the dangers that can be predicted. If he can't do it, he's got to shut down the stall or he's got to shut down that stable. Secondly, the following amendment provides for a limitation of compensation in the event of damage due to gross negligence to a good EUR 15 000. One of the forces that forces the employer not to ignore the potential dangers is greatly favored by this. The definition of gross negligence is that the employer is aware of the danger, but still does not act. By reducing compensation liability, we encourage those employers who are aware of the dangers to ignore it on purpose. Such employers are common criminals to us. However, what NSI proposes is exactly the same as reducing penalties for violations of the rules on safety and health at work. We therefore oppose these measures in the United Left. The proponent in the explanatory memorandum promises some positive effects. The position of the United Left is that, with safety and health at work, baranting is not allowed. At the same time, it is noted that the applicant has misjudged the positive effects. The proposal states that the proposal will not have an impact on public finances. This is not true, of course, the purpose of these measures is to eliminate employers' compensation liability to the Health Insurance Institute. If this proposal were accepted, the institution would no longer have a basis for requiring compensation from the employer who caused the injury caused by light negligence, so the institution would have a lower income for this. In a letter dated 9 March, the ZZZS Governing Board reported that in the last three years, the company had obtained EUR 1.3 million per year through its regression applications. Thus, the law does not meet the business conditions for submission because it does not provide a real assessment of the negative effects on public finances, but at least this is deceiving, to say the least. It is true that EUR 1.3 million for the ZZZ is not a large amount, but this measure is mainly a preventive measure. At the same time, I would like to point out that the institution is already understaffed for austerity measures. By comparison, €1.3 million is the annual cost of 43 highly educated workers. Finally, I would like to point out that the scale of the institution's funds in terms of GDP is declining and will continue to decline due to the wrong policies of this government. Finally, I would like to touch on the claim that such an arrangement would primarily benefit small businesses. That's not true either. The proposal provides for a limitation of compensation liability for all employers, regardless of size. Otherwise, it is our view that there can be no positive discrimination against small businesses as regards safety at work. Anyone who wants to live off a foreign job has to follow all the standards or just shut the company down. Here we can help with analogy with environmental standards, the ban on the chlorination of meat or the use of growth hormones in Slovenia applies both to the largest multinational and to the smallest espionage or farmer. The same must be true of safety at work. We have no reason to support this law. Of all possible subsidies and tax reliefs, there is also a proposal for a measure which has a minimal financial impact on businesses while at the same time jeopardising the safety of all employees. I hope that the proposal would not agree with even the vast majority of the employers on whose behalf the applicants are speaking. The Health Insurance Office, by letter to the National Assembly on 9 March, informed the State that, again, I quote: "it fully opposes the proposed legal solution." End of quote. Like everyone here, you probably know, the office is run by a board of directors, where employers have four, along with representatives of farmers, five members of the 11th. This is a very clear signal that they do not agree with the health dumping policy. The SPIZ Council also rejected in December 2013 a similar limitation on the level of responsibility as proposed today. Therefore, the law before us does not reflect any real social interest, except the economically least productive sector, and only the applicant's poor judgment. Therefore, in our view, it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u149	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u150	Good afternoon. The law we have written in New Slovenia, if adopted, actually improves the business environment, which is essential for more jobs. Let me be clear from the outset that in no way does it reduce the safety of workers in the workplace, in no way does it reduce the rules on safety at work. Employers must, irrespective of this law, implement all the measures required by the safety regulations at work. This law of ours only provides for a slightly more viable way of paying for damage in the event of accidents. And whoever did at least two days' work in the real sector has to support this law. Whoever doesn't even have an hour's work in the real sector will, of course, oppose this law. Very exact. Who pays in case of damage to the employee? In any case, the employer. If this is a matter of minor negligence, then we propose that this damage be paid out of the money that the employer or the wage is paid for injury at work, 0.5 per cent and a few per cent, and that it be collected annually into the fund around €80 million. If this is a matter of greater negligence, the employer would also cover the damage up to the level of 20 times the minimum pension base. However, when it comes to slander and the intention to cause injury, the employer fully covers all costs. In Novi Slovenije we simply decided to listen to those employers and small craftsmen and entrepreneurs who are at risk of failing due to claims for damage caused or so-called regression claims by the Institute of Health Insurance. According to Slovenian legislation, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has the right to claim compensation for damage if the injury, illness or death of the worker has occurred because the appropriate measures for protection and the proper working environment have not been implemented. There is, of course, no problem in this, that no one will feel that we are opposed to it. However, with the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, where the law provides, arrangements would be restored in some way in 2003, namely that compensation from employers in the event of injury at work and occupational disease would be required if it was caused by gross negligence. In the event of minor negligence, however, and the damage would be recovered from compulsory health insurance, where employers pay a monthly contribution of 0,33 % for this purpose. Like I said, in any case, the employer pays for the injury. The law also limits the amount of compensation for the employer in the event of gross negligence, i.e. 20 times the lowest pension base, and I said that. Under the current legislation, in Slovenia, it is not possible to protect the employer's liability in the event of injury at work and occupational disease, as is possible in the case of car insurance in the event of accidents. Independent entrepreneurs are among the most vulnerable groups of employers who respond with their personal property even in the event of minor negligence. So much for some of you saying that this law is not meant for small craftsmen and entrepreneurs. That's what it's all about, because you're in the greatest danger. Big companies can afford a lot of things. In the event of an accident that may not end well and even if a worker may be responsible for it, this company may even be closed down. By amending the legislation we are proposing, we do not want to underline this, we do not want to give any solace and prejudice to the required rules for the safety and health of workers, but merely to distribute financial responsibility for safety and health at work in an appropriate manner. Each participant must assume his or her share of the responsibility. Also, solutions are not addressed to workers or to the equalisation of existing legislation on safety and health at work. It is only a fairer distribution of responsibility. In Slovenia, we cannot secure regressive liability with any insurance company, for example, craftsmen and entrepreneurs in neighbouring Austria and Germany. In particular, this means that they have a better business environment because of this option. It is in Slovenia that we have repeatedly been critical of the functioning of the ZZS, including the transparency of the financing of individual rights under the general agreement. We do not think it is fair that health contributions paid for the purpose of safety and health at work are lost in this common bag and are not deliberately used for injury to work or occupational disease. This means that those 0.54%, 0.53%, which is intended for injury at work, are virtually now in this health-related loss for anything. However, we propose that if employers pay for this purpose for injuries at work, then this insurance company should also cover these costs in case of injuries due to minor negligence. The New Slovenia Group did not change the provisions which would in any way interfere with intentional injury, but it is only right that the employer is fully responsible for the burden of causing damage, even if this means the cessation of the business. When it comes to intent when it comes to deliberately reducing workers' safety measures, we also advocate in Nova Slovenije that such a company is better closed today than tomorrow. The purpose of the amendments we propose and support is therefore not to reduce the importance of safety and health at work, but not to reduce the employer's standard of responsibility, but to divide the burden more justly among all stakeholders. Clearly, the marriage we have written will also be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u151	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. The Law on Health Care and Health Insurance seeks to regulate the area of employers' compensation claims in cases of injury at work. It is a request for reimbursement of the costs of treatment that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance may require of one which is intentionally or negligently causing health damage to an employee. In the case of various forms of injury at work or occupational disease, the employer is usually responsible, which also assumes liability under the bond and compensation law. This is not automaticism in the sense that it also means that the employer is guilty of damage. We are therefore aware of cases where the employer in the court has difficulty in proving that a certain damage was not caused by the negligence of the employer, but by the worker himself who is responsible for the accident at work. Since there is no ceiling for compensation in the payment of these regression claims and it is often very difficult to distinguish in the process of determining the responsible person from whether any damage was caused by negligence or by chance, employers point to the grey field in the system of labour law, which should be properly regulated. We are already familiar with the issue in the Task Force of the Modern Centre Party and the Ministry of Health is already preparing legislative changes in this area. The regulatory work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 provides for the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which provides for the regulation of the problem in question this year. For we believe that the employer must do everything in his power to ensure safety and health at work in accordance with the legislation in force in the field of protection at work and unconditionally do everything in his power. If, in terms of safety at work, the employer has all the measures, such as a safety statement with a risk assessment, pre-health checks of the staff, if the workers have a safety test at work, if the employer teaches them from the outside, gives guidance on measures to ensure protection at work and so on, it should also be borne in mind that an accident may have occurred by accident or is the responsibility of the worker himself. Although these cases of serious negligence are relatively small, employers point out that, in the case of regressive claims, the cost recovery may be so high that it can jeopardise the company’s survival, which is particularly true for smaller economic operators. Despite the fact that the scope of compensation claims in the case of employers' liability deserves to be found under existing legislation, we do not think that the solution we are considering today is the most appropriate one and that is why we will not support it in the Group of the Modern Centre. The proposal is contrary to the basic principle of compensation law, which states that the cause must be compensated in the amount caused or in the way of establishing the previous situation. The proposal also threatens the protection of a weaker customer in relation to the employer, a worker where the employer already has a number of obligations under the applicable legislation to ensure safe and healthy work. Finally, it should be borne in mind that the adoption of such a solution, contrary to the applicant's assessment, would have significant effects on the public funds collected by the Slovenian Health Insurance Office on the basis of the contributions collected, and we hope that in most cases it is justified. The decommissioning of these funds from the health register would mean less money for health care, which would indirectly harm all citizens. However, in cases that indicate that this is happening unjustifiablely, it is necessary to find a solution in due course that will be right for everyone, both for workers and for employers and all users of cash health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u153	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Joseph Horvat has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you all for the views presented, of course also to the Minister. In fact, I am asking the Minister first of all, with one request or request, whether Members could receive for 2014, 2015 and also 2013 a detailed specification on the use of funds paid by employers through the contribution to injuries at work, 0.53% gross. This is about €75 million, and I think that Members can have this view of how this €75 million is spent, exactly what cases are involved. Of course, it's personal information, so you'll know how you're giving us this document anyway. First of all, I would like to say this because in some positions we have been told that Nova Slovenije is now reducing standards of protection at work. That's not true. That's not true. The standards of work protection remain the same, remain the same. We don't mind if they get any tighter. However, the fact is that for all accidents at work or for treated occupational diseases and so on, so the employer always pays through a regression application, as we have heard several times before, some over a million of these regression claims have been in the last three years or over the contribution rate of 0.53% on gross wages. Some, I don't want to raise the temperature now, but some of you have actually made it clear in your views to the citizens, don't become employers. Don't become employers. What you can imagine, step into the skin of a young entrepreneur who has all the qualifications to become an independent entrepreneur and engages in construction work. And let's say he's got two construction sites open at the same time. Thus, it is not possible for a person to be in two different places at the same time, according to physical, natural law. Of course, I do not rule out that some employer is also demeaning, deliberately demeaning. We're not defending them. But put yourself in the role of that employer, who may be in another construction site, if I've already started with this industry, and on some first construction site his worker, the builder, whoever, falls off the construction stage. When the stage is set according to all standards, it just went by or whatever. I don't suppose his employer told him to throw himself down. A completely different example is if an employer gives a worker the task of climbing a damp, wet roof, and a steep, untightened roof, for example. That's understandable. Put yourself in the role of a young employer who, God forbid, has a work accident and will have to pay a few ten thousand, maybe 100, 150 thousand regression claims. In this way, I would turn the matter around, just not to say, don't become employers, but I would still try to drive the debate in this direction to give an answer, for the first time, whether the existing legislation is appropriate or if we can improve it. But here, because at the previous point you, colleagues and colleagues, have brought a letter from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, I also suggest that you all read this letter. It's probably some representative organization that's quite a number of employers, and they've probably called because they have a problem. They have a problem. And we are here to solve problems at the legislative level. Or, as you have predicted, you will not support this law in the first reading, nor will you look for better solutions than before, and in some ways you are agreeing to this policy that we have enough jobs to continue with the pension fraud that I have been talking about at the previous point and is essentially the rakrana of this society. We actually have two very big problems. All honor to the politician who will be able to solve this problem. The first is once again the emerging bank hole, again it looks like a few billion will have to be pulled out of taxpayers' pockets. And secondly, what I have said before, from 2008 to 2015, from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we put EUR 11.3 billion into the pension fund because it is not sustainable. However, it is not sustainable because we do not have the balance because we have too few jobs, we have too few active people, of course we have too many unemployed, we do not have jobs, and not those on the minimum, I am not interested in such jobs, we do not have enough well-paid jobs, through which workers would pay for pensions, medical bills, and, finally, there would be much more money to contribute to injuries at work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u155	Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare for Mr Janko Weber and Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u156	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! All I can say is that we have actually listened to craftsmen, small entrepreneurs who have told them what problems they are dealing with. And when I listen to some opinions, it seems to me that in advance everyone who is an employer is a fraud, that you are already branding him in advance, that he is not deliberately concerned about the safety of his employees, deliberately causing accidents. We know that an accident never rests and that it is certainly impossible to foresee all things in order to prevent an accident. And if these employers, small entrepreneurs, craftsmen already pay in some kind of fund, but with these excessive burdens, we can completely destroy them, we can't give a man another option. I believe that there are very few who would deliberately cause some negligence in order for the workers to fail. However, there can always be an accident that we cannot or could not predict or prevent. And then we don't give such employers the chance that that compensation for damage would somehow be limited if they can't provide insurance for this potential damage or damage to the insurance companies. And again, let's just think that we politicians make mistakes, too, a lot of mistakes. Previously, we talked about tax confirmation of accounts, how many people have headaches because of how many people have problems, how many people will leave certain activities because you've confirmed such a nonlife law. Let's ask ourselves if we're gonna make up for the damage they've done to these people. We are hearing about the millions of damages and penalties that Slovenia will have to pay back to the European Union. Who's causing them? Is this one going to make it up to you? Let us ask ourselves just how much damage we do with our reckless laws and our actions. Or some bureaucrat, some official who has not given any consent for years or years, any permit to extend production or in this way actually has material damage. Consider: We do not defend those who are demeaning, but let us be lifeless, and let us also foresee that something may happen and that we cannot completely destroy this man. And they're not employers in advance who are ugly. Yeah, well, who's gonna give people a job if they don't have people willing to invest their money in some kind of activity and open up a job so people can be employed? We support the economy for jobs intended for citizens, so that they can live off it to pay taxes. And already, our employers are overburdened with various contributions and taxes, we all know that, then with administrative obstacles. Let us be lifelike and see if we really need to destroy a craftsman completely because of a work accident. That's all I'm asking you to do is look at life itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u157	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Branko Zorman and Mr Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! It is certainly a very big responsibility and an important decision not least for any individual who decides to organise the economic activity itself or, together with its partners, organise an even larger economic activity. However, in all of this, the attitude towards employees is extremely important and better than the attitude towards employees, better than the job situation, we can say that the impact of employees is significantly greater than it is. The fact is that everyone who has been doing the work since or after his early years or even later after an appropriate education has been received is trying to do his best. Many times there may be accidents, injuries, or other health problems due to the situation over the years. All of this can be mitigated in a way that this responsibility, the mutual responsibility between the employer and the worker, is established in the most corrective manner possible. Otherwise, the applicant considers that this solution, which is currently in law, is not the most appropriate or that it actually puts the worker in a better position than the employer. However, whatever we look at, in practice the worker is an increasingly weak party in the process, whatever happens. That is why I think it is better to take care of a small person, if I may say so, because he is in a subordinate position compared to the employer, in a way that we also offer him greater safety with the law, especially if we talk about health - you have health until you have it, and then it is extremely difficult to restore health when it comes to injury. The damage caused by this is insured on the one hand, but on the other hand the procedure itself is linked to the attempt by the health insurance company to recover this compensation for treatment, and this is the principle and relationship where it is certainly more appropriate if I can assess that this is happening between the employer and the insurance company than, say, between the employer and the employee. The employee is in a subordinate position and I believe that the current legislative solution is appropriate, a legal solution that is in force. However, if there were real difficulties in practice to put businesses in such a position that they would not be able to do business in order to fail because this obligation is simply too high, this is certainly a situation that we need to discuss very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u159	Mr Branko Zorman has the floor. Get Miha Kordish and Mrs Iva Dimic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, a team from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We are considering a relatively popular proposal from New Slovenia, which drinks water until we know all the facts. Now, in my debate, I will try to explain in more detail some of the facts that we will see why, as has already been announced, we will not support the modern centre of this proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Parties. Not because we have not worked in the real sector, as my colleague Tonin has previously said - interestingly, he is talking about working age and working in the real sector, with two years of working time in the real sector, and I have much more, so I can have a very reasoned debate with him. And despite working in the real sector, I will not support this proposal. Now, here's the thing. In short, if an employer who has to have regulated certain papers in accordance with the legislation has to have a safety statement with a risk assessment, all his employees must have periodic health checks, must have a safety course at work, must have a consistent education in other matters, the employer must, at the time of continuous work, give continuous instructions to his employees on safety at work, must warn of any infringements of those rules, of course before any accident occurs at work, and, of course, must carry out the necessary supervision in accordance with this. If the employer has done all of this and there is a case of injury at work, of course, according to the legislation he must complete the form so-called IR8 form Accident report, injury at work which must be sent in four copies, as we know, to the personal physician of his employee, and then returned one copy to the employer and two copies, of course, to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. When the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia receives this report of injury at work and here is already the first potential problem, because all employers and those first legislative bases fail to meet, they say all the papers of education checks and so on, and even in the case of injury at work not all are as aware as they should be, and of course do not report this injury at work. The Health Insurance Office, when it receives this application, assesses whether it was the fault excluded from the employee or whether the fault excluded from the employer or whether it is possible to share the fault, we know that too. And, of course, those employers who have all the necessary legal basis for this area of safety at work and who report an injury in accordance with the legislation will not receive a regressive claim. Once again, those employers who work in accordance with the legislation will not receive a regression request. Tell me one who received a regression claim and all of these marriage grounds were met. Moreover, in only 1% of cases of injury at work, in only one case of all injuries occurring at work, there are those for which the ZZS sends a regression claim to the employer only 1%. Believe that in this 1%, it is not the exemplary employers who respect the law, but the ones who take it, let us put it this way, perhaps a little bit more with their left hand. The proposal of the proposer is very dangerous, where negligence starts to divide into large, small, medium and so on. Malpractice is negligence. Given that the employer is legally responsible in the workplace, then there can be little negligence. Either it is or it isn't. It is known what the employer must do, what he must ensure, what he must monitor, what he must warn about, and what he must do in case of injury or accident at work. If he does so, no employer from the ZZZ will receive a regression claim. In this case, those honest employers are already protected today and this amendment to the legislation is not necessary. I believe that the Ministry of Health Insurance in the coming Health Insurance Act will also review this area again and, if there is to be anything else to settle here, it will also settle, and until then, as it is said, I will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u161	Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Get ready for Mrs. Iva Dimic and Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. The consideration of today's proposal and the applicant's defence stem from the idea that, as we have heard in the position and in the discussions that followed, the current regulation by ensuring safety at work and by penalising negligence in ensuring health and safety at work hinders entrepreneurship. It's kind of the basic thesis that we're dealing with in this debate that's coming from the right side. Here it must be pointed out that we are not really dealing with any dramatic social problem. This is not about tackling the real social problem, because regression claims amount to about 1.2 million a year. In Slovenia, we have 136 thousand companies with zero to one employees, and the number of espies has increased by 20% since 2008, while the total number of employees has decreased by 11%. This is precisely what I am telling you to reject the applicant's initial thesis that ensuring safety at work and the threat of compensation for negligence hinders entrepreneurship. Despite the current regulation, the number of enterprises has increased in recent years, especially those small, i.e. espies, by 20% since 2008. The basic thesis that the proposalr is making today simply does not hold back. However, their proposal reduces safety at work because it rewards employers, capitalists for negligence in ensuring the safety and health of their employees, which should be one of the basic functions or social tasks that the National Assembly, as a legislator, imposes on the employer, because the employer is, however, the one who has decided to open up the company because it is living from the work of other people. The average of accidents in the last three years is horrendous, 9 000 509 accidents, of which 439 are more severe. Accidents are increasing and in 2014 we also had 23 deaths. This means that our arrangement, if anything, is too strict for employers and ensuring their safety for their employees, but not too much as the proposaler assures us. As far as business conditions are concerned, the applicant argues in his proposal that there will be no effects on public finances. Of course that's not true. In the last three years, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has obtained EUR 1.3 million from this title, while the applicant claims that there will be no effects on public finances. According to our assessment, the United Left's assessment of this proposal does not meet the business conditions at all in order to be considered at today's meeting, but we are considering it. In particular, this proposal is not about saving employers, it is in fact minimal, but rather about eliminating the preventive measure to ensure safety and health at work. But the basic function of employers in capitalism is to pursue a profit motive on the market, to pursue profits and measures for the safety of employees mean indirect or direct costs for the employer, of course, the employer in a competitive competition on the market will not impose an additional cost if he does not need to. Therefore, in the National Assembly as a legislator, we need to ensure that the solutions that will force the employer to give up a piece of his profits and devote him to the safety of employees at work in the form of the exploitation of their working time, in the form of some thoroughness in organising the production process and so on. In general, this proposal is an attack on health at work, but also on the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia itself, as we have seen in these attacks in the last two years of this mandate, but it is only the tip of the iceberg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u163	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister! This last performance, I don't even know if it's appropriate for this National Assembly that this is all some kind of attack. Who? An attack on someone who's trying to earn his own bread. There's been too many of these attacks lately. Half an hour ago, we were talking about tax checkers who were exactly attacking that little man who was listening to himself to earn his own bread. You're also taking an attack if I want to enroll a child in a private school, you're taking it as an attack. I also take for an attack I did, emotionally I also take for assaults, that in elementary school my eight-year-old daughter is being taught these days Hey, brigade, hurry. [[...]] [[...]] This is an attack for me, and I'm not going to talk about this attack again. I will talk about the fact that in the private sector, in the private sector, for that small craftsman, a self-employed entrepreneur who has three to five employees, the law is too risky for him to go into any business more, which means without having two parts open, he doesn't hope for another. Let's just let it happen that there's constant surveillance of some security inspections at work, work at altitude. I'm talking about a self-employed roofer. What does it mean for him to have someone take a ride on his roof, and it can still be that kind of insurance network, it's standard. Interestingly, such ones are also preferred by inspectors and examine their salaries properly. That's what they find, and they're looking at it because everyone else is a deck, or they're on the line. How else can such a person create or work if he has such a heavy backpack that if one such injury occurs at work, he will do well because he is an independent entrepreneur and responds with all his possessions. And it has already been said today – Who in the public sector responds with all their assets? Not with a tenth, because if I were to answer with a tenth, it would be different in this country. We wouldn't have millions of claims in drawers, including for the Ormož sugar factory. All these discussions today, when you talk, it is so small, it is so little You know what the message is that everyone who goes down into some entrepreneurial waters has even been listed how many there are, but on the other hand you need to know why there are so many independent entrepreneurs, more than half of them, I am sure, is fictional because the employment policy has been such that they have been allowed to register only espions, independent entrepreneurs and get some incentive to start this path, but they are fictional, but they are easily closing down and are slowly resting. [[...]] You can see that in statistics too, and you didn't show it here. In short, in these days, being an independent entrepreneur, a craftsman, would say that anyone who falls in this path is not living in the real world, what all means and what obstacles must be met. The highest risk, as I have already said, is also the regression claims. And it seems to me that we should look in this direction at what needs to be debirocratized, what needs to be removed from all these controls, then things that block development and then talk about the social state. The social state is one that allows people to work, to earn, to survive and not to be prescribed ever-new and ever-worst rules, laws, and to be subject to such tighter supervision. And not above all, for if all were the same, then Marof would not have happened — what we said last week. Then there would be no exploitation of workers if control were the same to all, not only to independent entrepreneurs who have three to five employees and respond with all their assets. Because it's the easiest thing to pick up. That's the kind of guy you sit on, and it is. And he goes to auction his assets and gets stung. But to those who do so badly with people – even though we have good legislation, I also have to criticize 5 of them coming to one medical card – and that is not the case. How long is it going to be in this country that the kid's going to get more laid and the big fish are going to swim away?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u165	Replica, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you very much, chairman. Thanks for the replica. I'll be very brief. A colleague from NSI read me all sorts of different attacks, ranging from attacking private education to attacking capitalists, and a few other ten things ended up in this mess. Apparently, for a colleague from New Slovenia, the attack on society is all that is not the words of the preacher. Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u167	I hope it wasn't a replica. [[…]] I'll give you a second reminder in this campaign, this morning you saw that I had to remind you twice. It wasn't a replica. But they're both too emotional and they're both reacting to things like this. [[…]] Please, if it is possible for emotions to be ruled out at least to a certain extent and things are discussed rationally. But I think that there are so many differences that I can understand why the feelings of one and the other can be affected. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič and Mrs Vojka Šergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will try to rule out feelings and promise not to talk about private or public education when discussing the Law on Regression Applications. I'm guessing that's not even the point of the agenda. It's a joke, and it's not serious. An extremely dangerous thesis was put in place in the debate before Mr Kordiš's replica. The inspectors are walking around the company to see if the wages have been properly paid, and they're chasing those who don't pay properly. If we had an extraordinary session on how it could have been that Vegrad did not pay his employees' salaries, health insurance contributions and so on, it would probably also have been called on the other side, but it is necessary to deal seriously with any case where employers do not pay properly, do not allocate contributions and thus prevent employees from obtaining their basic rights, such as pensions, health insurance and so on. Therefore, first and foremost, it seems to me, on the part of the applicant, to pose such a problem, which, in the Regression Application Act or in this amendment, is quite significant that irregularities are allowed to the detriment of the worker if they occur on a case-by-case basis or at a lower level of preconceived negligence than had previously been exposed. The very term of pretentious negligence is, let's say, the least unusual, if it's not oxymoron, that's a clever nonsense. So where is the rational reservation to the adoption of such a law as we have before us? The purpose of the regression application, if we go by definition, means that the funds paid for the fault of someone else, i.e. in the case of injuries at work from the employer who has breached or abandoned measures to ensure the safe work of workers. Infringement or abandonment, without in itself having happened, was an accident because all the conditions that the employer would have to meet in order to ensure safety at work, the legal, rational conditions were not met so that nothing could happen to the employees. It happens, most simply, that employees do not wear helmets on construction site or protective clothing or protective shoes. Yeah, that's the employee's responsibility, but that's why someone's the head of the construction site, who first alerts the employee that the construction site needs a helmet, needs a protective shoe, needs a protective suit. Do you imagine being released into an ironworks without a protective suit, and then they say, by chance, someone found himself at a rollerblad and got hurt. This can't and can't be happening. Work must be organised in such a way that both employees and other potential participants in the work process are safe. If someone violates the prescribed rules, he is, of course, responsible for this, but not if the employer, despite having had a supervisor who did not warn him that he had a competent safety engineer at work and so on, allows for the possibility of something being violated. In this case, he left – and this “by chance” is truly unusual – his responsibility to the employees and to his company, to his capital, to his stake. I understand that it is terribly difficult for anyone to be paralyzed for the rest of his life, but if he fell off the stage because there were no protective stages, because there was no suitable equipment to protect him, it is not a coincidence. It is the fault of someone who should build an appropriate building site and who should act accordingly. And in no developed industrial country can this be a question of whether compensation or, as a consequence, a regression claim can be limited here. It cannot be because the health or damage of an employee who worked in a construction site that was not adequately protected will not say, right, only up to 40% of total paralysis can be damaged because it is a shared responsibility. Was he a stage guard or was there no stage guard? Did the employer prevent anyone from entering the site who was not equipped to do so? This burdens employers, I agree, as my colleague Kordiš said, at a level lower than EUR 2 million. And for 2 million euros, I'd be out of security at work. Responsibilities to take the work process seriously and involved in the work process. That's what I'm really sorry about, but it seems the least incredible. In the fact that the numbers we have ahead of us show that the number of these regression claims has been reduced to the top of everything. I think that Slovenia can compete in other ways than by reducing the standard of safety at work. I think that Slovenia can be a country that takes as an example those who are more successful at this. One of the main pillars — that is, trade unions in the United States have achieved something different than ours — is the prevention of accidents at work in the United States. But there is a different logic, where compensation to employees is so much the same if the employer was the one who did not comply with sectoral or legal provisions for security in the construction site, in the workplace, wherever it is. And the thesis that some violations are more permissible and others less is dangerous, because I believe that protection at work must be something that we can only talk about and only in the category, how to raise it, how to strengthen it and how to make it comparable to the best. Not on behalf of competitiveness, however, try to be where those who exploit employees and workers are used to strengthen their profits at the expense of their safety. Thank you very much, and I hope I didn't injure anyone irrationally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u169	The text is by the representative of the proposer, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I greatly appreciate, if I understand correctly, the position of the Modern Centre Party, colleague Maruše Škopac, who says that they have identified the problem of the problem in her client. At the same time, she made her fellow Member, who mentions, among other things, our colleague, the head of the Mag Group of Members. Tonino, misinformation. My colleague, Tonin, has three years of experience in the real sector, he was also an independent entrepreneur and so on. So please, there's room for truth, not lies. My colleague Jan Škoberne, who is leaving us for a short time, I understand that phone calls are also urgent, theoretically everything he said is true. He's got it all. Except he's accusing us of lowering security standards. Come on, please, let's listen. Once again and, if necessary, for the hundredth time, if the President gives me enough time – New Slovenia does not reduce safety standards, does not reduce. Let us also develop a debate in this direction to say what is yet to be improved. We agree that the employer must do everything in his power to ensure safety and health at work, in accordance with applicable legal and sub-legislative standards, even though in our opinion they are too many; you will probably agree that we are reregulated in certain or many areas. However, despite the fact that the employer in the field of safety and health at work has more or less everything in order than the positive rules require him to do — let me just list a few. It shall have a safety statement with a risk assessment. Secondly, the worker was on a preliminary and similar medical examination, we understand, at the expense of the employer, yes, how. Thirdly, the worker has passed a protection test at work, at the expense of the employer, clearly. Fourthly, the employer is educating them, clearly, at the expense of the employer, yes, and who. The employer gives the workers instructions on measures to ensure protection at work, if you want, buy them gloves and warn them a hundred times, keep gloves in the work process, but then once you turn away, the worker takes off the glove and is by the finger, I know a concrete case. But he gets hurt — who? – employer. Look, there's this difference between theory and practice, despite witnesses and so on. What should I do now, or should each worker have his own head of the building that follows him as a shadow? Theoretically, okay, practically not, so I'm here to challenge my colleague Scobernet. Furthermore, the employer reminds them of the infringements, the obligation to carry protective funds, the gloves were mentioned and so on. Of course, absolute safety at work cannot be guaranteed by the employer to the workers in any way, but it is also the truth, and it cannot be guaranteed. So, we are not to reduce safety standards in the workplace, it is only to relieve the employer in certain cases that we are only a little more sympathetic to him who went into entrepreneurial waters and made available to society, if you want, or to the state of all his property. He can lose his last day of work, just before he retires, if anything happens to him, and he has, say, 50, 80 thousand savings, and all that goes if he's found guilty of an accident. And if it's his fault, yeah, well, then he's guilty and he's gonna pay. But employers and all pay a real contribution to the elimination of accidents at work or to the repair of injuries at work. And that's why I was wondering how you really are this money, this 75 million about how exactly, which cases are being used. As far as competitiveness is concerned, there is now a dilemma, or the existing situation increases competitiveness, because today, ladies and gentlemen, they are not only competing with economic organisations, just corporations, but countries are competing. What does that mean? This means that the country must create a competitive business environment. Why isn't there a lot of foreign investors already? Hmm. Now it's quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u171	Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor. Prepare to be Mrs. Vojka Shergan and Mr. Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the secretary and coworkers! Say hello to my friends and friends again! My contribution should not be an attack, but an expression of concern when regulating protection at work. So preventing accidents at work to workers who are the weakest member. From experience, I say what some laws and regulations oblige the employer to make the working environment of the worker properly illuminated, argumetrically, irradiated, that the job will be equipped with security equipment and with annual education on protection at work for all workers. Each post shall have a safety statement with a risk assessment. All of this is under the control of an authorised medical specialist. As well as monitoring of actions that have been followed in the event of possible irregularities, experts are also doing so. Unfortunately, all jobs in the Republic of Slovenia are not dealt with so strictly, as we hear about modern slaves from the forest, with no legal arrangements for residence and employment, except with safety and health arrangements in the workplace. In all our behaviour, we cannot agree in any way with the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act proposed by the proposer. Reducing the employer’s responsibility in a worker’s accident cannot be ignored. If the employer has infringed the rules on safety at work and the working environment, he shall be liable with his property. Of course, the situation needs to be checked professionally and legally. The category of gross negligence of the employer or the intentional cause of the employer is unacceptable. Indeed, the practice shows that workers are primarily responsible for the accident. Employers are largely deprived of their responsibility. In the Desus Group, we do not support the employer's proposal for protection. According to our assessment, this is contrary to the fundamental principle of compensation law and also to the Christian principle of protection of the weaker, so we will not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u173	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. Prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you for saying so, President. Dear Madam Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! I take today's debate as kind of a debate that will shed light on the backdrop of these regressive claims, because I too have been alerted from the ground to this issue, so it seems to me that it is right to enlighten some things. Employers are committed to creating a safe working environment on the basis of safety and health regulations at work. Of course, the insurance company only directs the claim if the employer is to blame. And leave the employer with the duty to respect the rules on safety and health at work. The company may, however, relieve the payment of compensation only if it proves that the injury at work has not been caused. Although these problems are relatively low, in the case of regressive claims, the cost recovery can be so high that it can jeopardise the company’s survival, which is mainly the case for smaller economic operators. I would also like to warn you at this point, as you have previously warned, that the S.P. is truly guaranteed with all its assets. That's something you forget a lot. In doing so, I would also point out what colleague Kordish pointed out, capitalists and so on. However, it is important to note, however, that social enterprises have leadership, including cooperatives, and that there can be damage in a social enterprise, and also in a social enterprise, the leader will be responsible if no action is taken in the company. I wouldn't be so narrowly focused here and try to show that, in fact, even in the former system, which was socialist, someone was taking care of safety at work. So now to say it, yes now capitalists are exploiting people and don't give them resources at work. We can't think like that, because most of the time it doesn't actually happen, we can't take it from this point of view, that I'll always, I'll say, at home, a string of people, but it's often that kind of disobedience, short-term contact, or maybe the employee doesn't follow those instructions that he got from the employer, and so on. The moments of life are coming. For example, in a workshop, somehow by all the regulations there must be order in the workshop, but in some way, if a worker leaves behind a cable that is rolled up, and gets stuck by this cable and falls, it is also determined how the damage occurred if the head hits a machine. So, let's say this is a very complex way of thinking. In addition, I would like to say that in small employers, the one with two employees is for the employer when one worker is injured, and I do not know why a small employer would not be caring for his employee. Well, if one of them gets hurt, he's got a 50% drop. The orders he has can't be cancelled in time and so on. So I couldn't do everything from this capitalistic point of view that the employer does with the worker here. In addition, I would also like to point out here, as you all have already warned, that it must ensure that, under the law on occupational protection, the employer must, under the applicable rules, provide a risk assessment, a safety statement with a risk assessment. I will still go into a little more detail about this risk assessment and explain it, because I believe that even ministerial officials actually know little about what this assessment actually means. [[…]] This assessment means that all jobs are included in the risk assessment, a detailed description of the machines with which the worker works, which machines are used. It is then necessary to write in this risk assessment also what measures the employer has taken to address those risks in the individual workplace, even in some way. Then the annex to this safety assessment is all machines, all devices, when to be inspected, for what period, when to be checked for medical examinations. In short, everything here is clearly defined. Finally, when all of this is done, your doctor will confirm this risk assessment from medicine. This means that the medical doctor also examines the workplaces and gives his opinion whether these measures are appropriate or not. Similar medical examinations, including specific examinations from protection at work for a period of two years, per year. In short, as I said before, all devices inspected, the electricity must be examined as to what instructions the employer gives to the workers. In short, this is the whole document, and it seems to me that even if the ministries knew this document or deepened themselves and really started to think about which employer has this document exactly, we could think about it because we are at some turning point when the Minister will also in some way prepare a new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. And I think it would suggest that we consider whether this law or whether it can define when and how the employer is considered to be malpractice or seriously malpractice, because I believe that the employer is a safety statement with a risk assessment and that it follows this document, which can prove by means of accounts and so on, I think that in these sub-laws it would somehow suggest that the employer who is leading all of this and who is concerned in such a way that he is somehow unable to be seriously malnourished. I think it would be very good if the matter went this way. Because I am discussing this because I think and have been warned in the field that the hardest thing in practice is to prove that it was not negligence. It's easier to prove that it was slander, but it's hard to prove in court that it was negligence. Because people are also kind of superficial at work, because you said before that officials are also somehow sinning and then the judgments fall in European courts. It may also be wise to regulate the sub-laws in which cases insurance undertakings may make such claims at all. This would also avoid unnecessary disputes in court, and this could also be done in a wise manner in these sub-legislative acts. I take this debate as a real debate and that we all, together with some arguments, show that there are solutions and also by listening to the Ministry, which is preparing a new Health Care Act, I think this segment can also be regulated. And I would also like to point out that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has been pointing out this for more than 10 years. In small employers, this is a problem, but not at the expense of reducing safety at work, I remind you once again, not at the expense of reducing safety. Just so that the employers who do not care about their workers and those who are exemplary and caring for their workers will be separated for one day, even though there will be an accident. So I'd just like to point that out one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u175	Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! I trust the proposal or the intention of the proposal not to reduce safety standards for employers. But on the other hand, I think you're still putting two things on the scale that you just don't judge. On the one hand, you mention the positive effects, the increased competitiveness, including the international competitiveness of the employer, and on the other hand, the safety of the worker. And, of course, in the short term, sometimes this may even happen, that productivity may also be higher, that the cost of work on this account would be lower, but in the long term, of course, I personally believe that it is a successful company that invests in good working conditions that invests in the good opportunities that employees have to invest in their security. And of course, the long-term productivity of such a company is significantly better and greater than only in the short term if we relieve employers of certain costs. And the fact is, it must be acknowledged that in this way, of course, we are closing the doors to workers, firmly closing the doors to those damages that are most often justifiable. Because despite everything, as mentioned above, the worker is a weaker partner in relation to the employer. And I think that is why such an initiative is actually one bad, wrong message for employers. I do not mean employers who already care about safety at work who care for their employees. There are a lot of companies like that. But on the other hand, we know that we also have a number of companies that not only do not worry, but they are violating all possible legislation that does not have their employees registered, of course even less insured and so on. And that is exactly what they would do if they were burdened with responsibility for the health of their employees. Then, of course, we have a crisis on the other hand that we are facing, which we are slowly emerging from, but which is still present. This crisis is also the one that forces employers to save money, let it be savings in the number of employees, equipment savings, more modern methods, more modern machines, so that they are at risk in different ways. That's why I don't think this is the right approach, although, as it were, I understand the purpose. We would also increase international competitiveness in this way. Who? With countries where they are known to violate the rights of workers, where they do not really give anything for the safety of employees and workers in their businesses. This is a very simple logic that does not work out in practice in the long term. If we look at countries that give some of the status and position of the worker and the conditions of his work and believe that this will also affect his productivity, of course, none of these probably think in a similar way – reducing the safety standards or responsibilities of employers to these workers. The employer is ultimately responsible to invest in this. And not only does he control that the worker will respect all these rules, that this does not result in illness at work, that unnecessary injuries will not occur, that we do not talk about death at work. And that's why I think this road is wrong. I see much more sense in the direction that you positively stimulate the employer, it is, the one who will have fewer injuries at work, the one who will invest more in safety at work, so that you can somehow provide him with a few bonuses in reducing the costs they have because of this. But this is a diametrically opposite path like the one you're defending, but I believe that it can be driven, from the area of health insurance to those withdrawals you're talking about, where you can of course make the right scales in terms of investing in better working conditions and in greater employee safety. I understand the purpose, I think the path is wrong. That is why, of course, I cannot personally support thinking in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you very much. She has a word, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek. Then the government's representative should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Madam President. As I said before in my position, we will, of course, support the proposal for amendments to this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. When I heard this debate here, I don't know if we don't want to or if we really don't understand each other. The proposal put forward by the applicant for consideration, I would like to stress once again, it does not go and it does not bring about a reduction of standards, by no means, the standards remain the same and should come from here. Or perhaps we should consider a different course. We should think in the direction of greater control of inspection services. Inspections should go to the field, monitor, and, if they find a violation, severely punish the one who does not do his job. As has already been said in the debate today, this law is of course particularly affecting medium-sized and small entrepreneurs. Every side here when you were talking and laying your cases down, I have to say that she was partly right. However, I must say that I do not agree with the opinion delivered by the Health Insurance Authority for today's meeting, which says that the change in this law would have an impact on health care as well as public funds, and thus less money will be available for health care. It is necessary to know that the funds collected are earmarked for health-care programmes, thereby providing health care and reducing waiting periods. I think that the Institute of Health Insurance could think mainly in one direction, especially in the direction of warning about corruption and money, we know how much money there is in the game. I think she'd be more taken out of this account anyway. We also have a Minister of Health among us, and I would really like to know which data are the correct data of the Health Insurance Institute, which is also taken by the Government in its opinion for today's meeting, or data from the Ministry of Health, on the question sent by our fellow Member, Mr Jana Mahnič. In this reply, the Ministry says that according to the business report, the Health Insurance Office in 2014 had a revenue of 20.2 million euros in regressive claims. Now I don't know, Minister, whether it's written down for you or it's a different misunderstanding or I have to say we're just used to some mistakes from your side. In the end, I would like to say why no one thinks, but I don't think it's impossible why they wouldn't give some kind of thinking in the direction that even commercial insurance companies would start with this kind of insurance. I don't think that's impossible either. I'm saying, the thing about thinking is, one way we're thinking about how to help middle-sized and small-sized entrepreneurs, and the other is that they're totally opposed to us. And I must also say that I am pleased, colleague Vojka, that even you in the field, I assume that entrepreneurs, independent entrepreneurs, are alerting you to the shortcomings of this law. I hope that you will also vote accordingly in the direction of guidance or warning our citizens on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Just a short replica. I don't think we understand each other very well. No one claims that this proposal directly reduces or worsens safety standards at work, but it is expected that if such a proposal were adopted, smaller safety standards are the result of such a measure. It's the same as if, I don't know, in traffic offences for speeding, they were going to lower their sentence and expect people to be less infringing on speed driving. I suppose more would drive too fast, which is normal and self-evident to draw behind. And it seems to me that the effect would also be on such a proposal if it were adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. The representative of the Government, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I'll answer because from the end of Mrs. Brinovšek. Yeah, data and numbers, you know, you should know how to read. On the 130th page of the annual report of the Health Insurance Office, you will be able to find EUR 20.2 million for 2014 for all the so-called regression contributions, from which is only one part of the regression claim that we are debating today, is EUR 1 million 176 thousand 901 for 2015. However, the remaining part of the regression claims represents 8,5 % of the flat-rate coverage of the damage calculated from the gross gross gross premium of the insurance premium for the automotive AO insurance, compulsory, and constitutes some flat-rate coverage of the damage. The agreement was reached years ago and each year insurance companies deduct this flat-rate amount. And you have a nice table on this page of the annual report for 2014 and 2015. So the numbers hold up very precisely. Of this, I should say, even the number and amount of regression claims from 2014 to 2015 have been reduced by around EUR 300,000. And by the way, you'll have an easier idea, 1 million 176 thousand in 2015 means 307 easier spinal surgery than we do in Slovenia. 10% of these operations would be less if these requirements or the way you discussed and thought about today were in place. Part two, I agree that the business world is not compassionate, but at least merciful and that competition is severe. This makes it all the more important to define very clearly what negligence is. Malpractice is defined as an easier form of guilt. And continue to understand what we understand about gross negligence and what we can expect from negligence. For this reason, we will also be more specific in the amended legislation or in the new Law on Health Care and Insurance in order to avoid any misinterpretation or misuse. And one more thing to clear up, because obviously it's not a complete understanding and we're talking about two different things. One is this regression request, which I have just mentioned, but the other is 0.53% of the contribution to accidents at work, which employers, of course, pay because there may be a much greater likelihood of injury at work in the performance of activities or workers than those of which, of course, are not working. By no means is this contribution of 0.53% for accidents at work intended to ensure employers' responsibility, on account of their non-compliance with the safety and health rules at work. As a result, let us give these matters substantively to separate and understand that we will know what we are talking about. Another matter, Mr. Horvath's answer. In the annual health treasury report, there are no detailed expenditure of this cash register for the use of the revenues of 0.53 contributions, which amount to around €80.74 million, according to the latest available data, I believe that for 2015 there were €74 million. Of course, all the types of medical care needed to repair injuries at work should be collected for this purpose. It should then be possible to collect data on salary compensations which involve absence from work for up to 30 days for all those who have suffered these injuries at work. Then, of course, adequate use of medicines and all those elements should be made in order to determine how this weight of 0.53% of the contribution is used. As a result, once again, what I have already said in the introduction is not really the right way to waive the regression claims as proposed for there when it comes to either ease of negligence or abandonment of acts, because this is contrary to the rules of employers' compensation. This would be contrary to the rules of protection and health at work as well as to violations of labour law relations. As I have already said, we will and are preparing to make matters more precise in the future in the new Health and Health Insurance Act, so to avoid any action in the implementation of this Act in order to make matters more clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go. Replica, I'm sorry. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I can read the text. See, my colleague Mahnič's question was about the regression claims of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance against Employers in cases where a disability occurs and the death of a worker at work or work, and health or death is a consequence and so on. And the Ministry responds: "In view of the ZZS business report in 2014, this had 20.2 million euros in revenue from the regression claims. The ZZS has data for each debtor separately, so for the employer, it does not have data collected according to the status form s. p., d. o. o. and so on. There's no car insurance written here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you very much. A representative of the proposer, Mr Joseph Horvat, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I did not understand that they would not be inclined to my demands, of course, because the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia has an excellent information system, and I know that. I know even a few people, but why don't I ask you so officially for information I just want to have. From this item, from this 74 million for 2015 I want to know exactly where this was spent last year. Colleagues and colleagues, we didn't say anything about arrangements, like, in our northern or southern neighbours or, say, in Germany. Why Germany? Because there are many of our workers and employers there, of course, providing services, because this is our extremely important strategic market and is becoming increasingly important. But we've prepared this in the paper, so why should I read it to you if you can read it for yourself? I will also not now speak specifically about the position of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. I propose that the coalition invite representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and still tell you where the problems are. They are probably not your opposition as New Slovenia, so this conversation is likely to be more frank and open. And once again, this proposal is not going in this direction, God forbid that it reduces safety standards in the workplace. I'd like someone to propose some improvements today. I immediately support it, given that in fact technology is speeding up in some way our regulation is not only Slovenian, technology is speeding up regulation and therefore it is probably important to update, by contrast, to update safety standards in the workplace. Why am I talking about this? Because many employers tell us that workers are their biggest capital. And sometimes one of you also tells us that New Slovenia defends, protects capital. Yeah, it's true, but man is the biggest capital. That's why we're talking about the socio-market economy, the socio-market model of the economy, but sometimes we don't hear from each other. On the other hand, the issue of how to resolve this issue must be raised in parallel so as not to reduce the number of jobs. Dear colleague Private Shergan comes from the real world. Her discussion was lifelike. I sign everything she says. That's what this is about. We need more jobs, we need more jobs. We need to do something, not cosmetic repairs, we need to make tectonic movements if we want to have sustainable cash registers, such as health checkbooks, such as pension registers. I have spoken many times today because I have been fascinated by an article that we have had a pension fraud for many years. It's a bad word. That's too bad. And why, because from the budget, if it runs out of pension money, we throw out of the budget every year from a billion 300 to a billion 500 million. It is not right that we have virtually every year a real lower pension. And the data here is clear, 10 years ago, 1.67 active citizens worked for one pensioner, 10 years ago, last year, for 0.3 percentage points, says almost a third of an active worker less, and then logically, the pension is low, it is logical that we have over 300,000 pensioners who have less than 600 euros in pensions. Can you live with that?Oh, my God! And then it makes sense that Gini's coefficient tells us that we are an egalitarian society, that we are egalitarian in poverty. Once again, we do not protect employers, nor do those who intentionally cause work accidents with extreme negligence. No, no, no. We are in favour of keeping it, even increasing safety at work, but because it is a problem, as colleagues and colleagues from SMC have said, because it is a problem, we have to solve this problem, or this problem will eat our jobs. That's the problem. We know, we can calculate, we need at least 60,000 new jobs right now. Who's gonna open them? Who? And yes, in a way, I regret that, unlike Austria, Germany, for example, they do not provide insurance, they do not give employers the opportunity to protect their workers in case of accidents at work, so that the accident insurance does not cover this. I'm sorry. Perhaps we should consider something in this regard. Maybe, I don't know, maybe in terms of tax relief, but that's why we have an army of people in the government, in government services who can do a simulation in a few minutes and come to the National Assembly with solutions. We don't have these tools, these data to do these simulations. But the fact is that things in Austria and Germany are more favourable, because in fact there is a way of honoring the one who organises the work that gives work, because this ensures the existence of families, which, of course, is also shown in positive demographic indicators and so on. What's interesting is, I've had a lot of contacts with the leadership of the Civil Initiative Apache, and today it's become a union. Of course, as you know, for workers, migrants who work in Austria daily or weekly, there are between 18 and 20 thousand. Thank God the Prime Minister has now accepted them when they have seized civil disobedience. But I've never actually heard of being dissatisfied with an Austrian employer. They get angry, sometimes unjustifiable, at our country. In that case, of course, excused when no one in this country wanted to accept them, I say, I am grateful that Dr. Miro Cerar has prepared an audience for them, and I hope that this conversation will continue until a solution is reached. What's that again? New Slovenia has a simple solution here that would not be constitutionally controversial. But there is a need to increase the general tax relief on income, and not only have we solved many problems for these migrant workers alone. Because you find and realize that this content that we've opened up here today is a problem. If this has been determined, if these statements have been sincere, then I expect to see you in the second reading on the parent's working body, where we will be able to drink the solution in concrete terms. We don't say she's perfect, we don't say, but that's why we're here. If 90 people together with the government get their heads kicked, the solution can only be good. There can't be a bad solution if we all take our heads and find the best solution for this and tomorrow's moment for workers and employers. That's what this is about. And in this sense, I expect you to vote in this way to support this proposal of the law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item, this is on the exploratory proposal for a resolution on the National Health Protection Programme 2016-2025 "Collect for the Health Society". The motion for a resolution was submitted to the assembly by the Government. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u188	Well-known, distinguished Vice-President, distinguished Members of Parliament, distinguished Members of Parliament! With the proposed Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 called "Common for the Society of Health", which is ahead of you today, we will receive a strategic document in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of health. It sets out the objectives and aims of how we will respond to the changed needs of the population in the coming years, adjust the health care and insurance system and, above all, achieve the goal that the people of Slovenia will be healthier and have more healthy old years. In the national plan, we commit ourselves to the European values of health systems, such as universality, solidarity, justice, accessibility, security and quality. In the resolution, as we have said many times before, we have also entered the results that we have obtained in the analysis of the Slovenian healthcare system. We have also improved the proposal with a number of proposals from the public debate and several amendments. The resolution was also supported by the Socio-Economic Council, the competent commission of the Council of State, the Council of State and, unanimously, the Health Committee of the National Assembly. The document thus has specific objectives, activities and measures to achieve them and indicators with which we will regularly monitor progress. It is very important that the document commits the entire government to regard health as a value and a goal in all its policies. The resolution puts the user and the operator at the centre and seeks to strengthen and protect health and disease prevention, optimise healthcare, increase health care performance, fair, solidarity and sustainable financing of healthcare. Its adoption is also a condition for drawing on European resources under the operational programme for the implementation of cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programme. And let me also convey the call of the European Commissioner, who recently visited Slovenia, who also visited Parliament and recognized the resolution as one of the best quality documents in the EU Member States and also recommended that you accept it. And what tasks does the resolution provide for in 2016? A key is the new Health and Health Insurance Act, which we will put to the debate in the first half of this year. The next challenging task for two ministries, the Ministry of Labour and our Ministry, is to prepare a law in long-term care. There are also two important laws in public debate, namely the Systemic Act on Pharmacy, which, for the first time since 1992, regulates pharmaceutical activities comprehensively for the first time since 1992. In the public debate, there is also a law restricting the consumption of tobacco and related products. In addition to legal changes, of course, we are planning a number of activities that do not necessarily require legislative changes, such as the establishment of a system of evaluation of health technologies, where we are working together in the European Union's project. An interdisciplinary working group preparing quality and safety indicators is already in place to establish a comprehensive system of quality and security. We continue with the pilot project of waiting periods, which will shorten waiting periods in a short time period and amend the Patient Rights Act and Rules in a long time. There is also a rules on occupational diseases in the final phase. We are preparing a strategy for the development of primary health care, which will include gynaecology, paediatrics, dentistry, health care and patronage. We will also start the process of renovating accounting models at all levels next year. Finally, let me thank all of us who have contributed with your arguments to the resolution and have enabled this strategic document in the field of health to come to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Health Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! The Health Committee is at its 12th session. 3. as a parent working body, the draft resolution on the national health plan 2016-2025 “Common for the Health Society” submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance. The Committee took note of the motion for a resolution, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council, the opinion of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the opinion of the Government on the opinion of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, moved the main objectives and orientations of the resolution, as she stressed earlier today's explanation of the motion for a resolution, in her opening statement. The resolution represents a strategic framework for health for the next ten years. It takes into account the results of the analysis of the health system in Slovenia prepared by the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the World Health Organisation and the European Observatory for Health System Monitoring. Specific tasks and projects at the Ministry of Health are already under way. In view of all the tasks and the fact that the Ministry of Health has been heavily undernourished in recent years, the Government agrees with the additional employment at the Ministry of Health this year and in 2017 and 2018. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Dr. Samo Dijak, presented the following written opinion and established some comments. Representative of the State Council mag. Peter Požun stressed that the State Council supports and notes that the resolution as the basis of the health system preserves the principle of universal accessibility to quality health services and fair and solidarity financing of healthcare. The Council of State believes that the health system must remain publicly and widely accessible. Opinions on the motion for a resolution were submitted by representatives of the ZAUS Civil Health Care Association, the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the Health and Social Welfare Union of Slovenia and the Professional Association of Health and Grandparent Care Professionals of Slovenia. The debate stressed that the resolution could provide a good basis for initiating the reform of the health system and should be upgraded, as there are more clearly defined objectives, implementing measures and plans and financial assessments. As a document, the resolution is too general and individual areas do not contain a development vision. Specific questions have been raised regarding the global health challenges to which the Minister responded at the end of the debate. Within the time limit set, amendments were tabled by the coalition, i.e. SMC, Desus and SD, of a nominal nature, and by the United Left Group to Chapter 6 Activities and actions in priority development areas, Subsection Health insurance. The Committee voted on and adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. And the Committee voted on the amendment of the United Left Group, which it did not accept. The Committee then voted on all the chapters of the motion for a resolution and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared. The supplementary motion for a resolution is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Mr Tomaž Gantar, Member of the Parliamentary Joint Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you very much. It's me again. Members and Members of the Desus Group estimate that the draft resolution on the national health plan 2016-2025 provides a good basis for launching the urgently needed reform health system. It is a strategic document with a validity of 10 years, which contains, in particular, general guidelines, which is common practice in such acts. The resolution is a document that has undoubtedly put a lot of effort into it. The preparation took into account the results of the analysis of our healthcare system, with realistically assessed benefits that are reflected in many aspects in the excellent results of past years' work, and in particular the changed circumstances and shortcomings that we face today and which make health reform necessary, if we are to remain comparable to the best in 10 years. At this point, we would like to see in the resolution a number of clearer substantive definitions and views on how it will be in the future. The resolution covers most areas and activities, and the corresponding weight also gives rise to population ageing and related challenges that we are already facing today, an ever-increasing number of chronic non-communicable diseases, mental diseases and dementia, and the problems of palliative and ultimately long-term care for the elderly. The ageing of the population is an area that will pose a particularly major challenge for Slovenia in the future. Undoubtedly, it is also the right direction for the further development and strengthening of public health. The values on which the resolution is based, such as accessibility, universality, justice, solidarity, are also advocated by Desus. We also advocate the preservation of a basket of rights, which must remain, to the maximum extent possible, funded by public funds. Health funding is an area where, according to everything in the resolution, we would like more clear substantive proposals and solutions. After the recent economic crisis that has severely affected our health care, we are concerned about the continued financing and the long-term financial sustainability of our health system. The current form of health funding was also highlighted by the analysis of the World Health Organisation. At the same time, we expect and fully support the Ministry of Health's intention to change the unjust system of complementary insurance. It is worth noting that the results in the field of healthcare in 10 years will depend on the implementation of the commitments and objectives of the resolution that we are adopting today. The motion for a resolution sets out the planned activities, measures, amendments, timeframes and indicators. At the same time, it is worth commending the efforts of the Ministry of Health, which is trying to move some things in Slovenian health care from a dead point today and which is already implementing some of the proposals contained in the resolution. The Act on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products, which is one of the most important in the field of preventive action, undoubtedly also includes the Act on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products. The title of the resolution states 'Communication for the Society of Health', whether we will really live better and healthier in the future, depends on all of us and on the fact that health must actually become part of all policies as set out in the resolution. The Desus Group will support the draft resolution on the National Health Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u194	Madam Vice-President, distinguished Minister, re-welcome colleagues and colleagues! The motion for a resolution provides the basis for the development of health care and the preparation and adoption of appropriate legislative solutions in the field of healthcare and health care for the next 10 years. The document addresses key health and healthcare problems, health inequalities related to specific needs and health opportunities of vulnerable groups, provides the basis for the development of public health and health activities and the basis for the further development of health insurance. For the Social Democrats, a system based on solidarity, reciprocity and justice is one of the foundations of the social state, so it is particularly important for us that the resolution preserves the principle of universal accessibility, quality health services and fair, solidarity financing of health care, which together form the basis of the health system, which must, and this is our fundamental condition, remain public, universally accessible and as protected from practices which are contrary to these principles, which can also be found and recognised in the Slovenian Constitution. We agree that the Slovenian health system needs changes and adjustments to the system, since similar updates have not been carried out for at least two decades. However, we argue that many, including today's intense criticism of the public system, are not in the function of improving it, which is, of course, the fundamental task of any criticism, but have often signalled that our public system needs a challenge that only private interest can bring. Such initiatives after the privatisation and commercialisation of the Slovenian health system are strongly rejected by the Social Democrats. The proposals for the public system to provide basic health care to the less-favoured and deprived population and the parallel private system to provide better opportunities for the more wealthy groups are unacceptable, I can say, even rejected. Public health care must be universal and equally accessible to all, regardless of material status. Health services that are important for human health should, however, be stressed not to be understood as marketable goods. Therefore, in the public system and for public funds, the services necessary to maintain and restore health, operated only in a non-profit manner, must be able to recover surpluses in an accessible and quality public health system. The fact that commercial insurance companies make profits at the expense of the supplementary health insurance premium, which is essentially compulsory, is that, for various reasons, around 40,000 people are temporarily or permanently without compulsory health insurance, that about 100,000 people do not have supplementary health insurance, which means that no compulsory health insurance is available to them without high fees. If we add to this the fact that around 170,000 people with the lowest incomes mean a premium for supplementary health insurance disproportionately high costs, the change in the supplementary health insurance system is inevitable. We are committed to financing health care according to the wealth of individuals in society and to distributing health services according to the health needs of people, while ensuring that all citizens have the opportunity to meet their needs for quality and timely health care independently of their material situation. In drafting legislation, it will therefore be crucial for us Social Democrats that the content clearly sets out the objectives of law and law, among which the maintenance of public health must take the first place. We are insisting that there is a clear gap between public and private health activities. We support the regulation of the area of award of concessions in a way that we will award them on the basis of fixed-term tenders only where public health institutions are unable to provide the intended scope of services. We believe that the measures envisaged in the resolution follow the principles of maintaining public health and maintaining universal accessibility for all, and we will therefore support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u196	Good afternoon, thank you very much, Madam President. The basis and purpose of the resolution are the principle of solidarity and universality. The principle of solidarity is another name for the socialist maxim that everyone must contribute according to their capabilities and get the health services they need. However, the principle of universality means that we must be included in this system of solidarity for all. In the United Left, we consider that the resolution is a good basis for implementing these principles in all three areas covered by it — public health, health and health insurance. In all these areas, it would certainly be possible to set some goals even more courageously. The writers of this resolution are well aware that social inequality has a significant impact on health inequalities. Chronic diseases, risk factors and early death are significantly higher in people with low incomes, precarious forms of employment, and so on, more frequently in developing regions. In addition to the health programmes provided for in this resolution, the Government should immediately implement an ambitious programme to combat poverty, in particular between the elderly, single parent families and other vulnerable groups. The aim of the Ministry of Health is that in fact all permanent residents will be included in the compulsory insurance system. As regards health activities, we are pleased that this is the first official document to define the concession as a supplement, i.e. as an exception. This is a good basis for the development of health homes, which has been halted by the interests of concessionaires and the wrong policies of municipalities and health ministers. Already nearly 14% of public funds are spent by private concessionaires, while at the same time the quality and accessibility of healthcare is not improving. Nor has the work of doctors from public institutions in the private sector been systematically limited. While we would limit private practice more than this resolution, this resolution is certainly a sufficient basis for decisive action. Health care in Slovenia will not be universal if we do not extend compulsory health insurance rights through new treatment methods. If we are lagging behind, modern methods will become the privilege of rich and private performers. It is therefore necessary to increase the proportion of public funds that we as a society provide to healthcare. Slovenia’s problem is not so much that we spend 2 000 88 dollars per capita on health and in Austria, $5,000 427 dollars, but that we have only 6.1% of GDP public funds and 7.9, which is 1.8% more. There is a need for a conversion in fiscal policy. We urgently need to increase the share of the budget's revenue by increasing capital and property taxation. I would like to point out that by 2019 the government is planning a substantial reduction in GDP revenues, while at the same time predicting an increase in the share of military defence expenditure, police and some other sectors. In this way it is not possible to achieve the objectives of this declaration. Other essential sources are the replacement of supplementary health insurance with a solidarity public contribution. As long as citizens are forced to enter into commercial insurance for compulsory insurance rights, these services are not universally available to residents who are legally insured, but are not primarily financed by the principle of solidarity, and we have therefore proposed an improvement of the text with an amendment which has determined that people will not have to pay for services from baskets of rights, neither from pockets nor from insurance premiums. Given that this is enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, we are surprised that the coalition Members did not support this May. We increasingly doubt that they will also support the efforts of their own Minister of Health in this area. However, the fact is that if the government does not abolish supplementary insurance in this mandate, it will not only violate its coalition contract, but also the principles of fairness and solidarity enshrined in this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Minister. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposal for a resolution entitled “Commonity for a Society of Health”, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for the next decade, is too general, too limited and insufficiently binding, according to Christian Democrats. Given that health needs a major reform, in Nova Slovenija we are missing a greater reality in the document regarding the timing of changes to key health legislation. The motion for a resolution is some kind of mix of necessary and well-intentioned desires, measures and intentions, but we strongly doubt that it is feasible. More than resolutions and analyses, we need this moment and an effective public health system for tomorrow, at the heart of which will be a citizen of this country. Christian Democrats in the motion for a resolution also lack plans to amend other health legislation, which are not detected by the motion for a resolution, but will certainly need to update the Medical Services Act, the Medicinal Products Act, the Health Act, the Medical Devices Act and so on. In Nova Slovenija we welcome that the adoption of the amendment of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is planned for this year. At the same time, we expect that part of this law will also clearly define the basket of rights, as well as the norms and standards, so that public money will not continue to be misused in the framework of a general agreement due to vaguely defined rights procedures. This is, of course, the toughest nut to be crushed because, according to the experience of reform laws, it is not prepared and adopted during the electoral year. While we are pleased in New Slovenia that the resolution includes the emphasis that we agree with and, in view of the ever-increasing ageing population, we need to act urgently. We are also reminded of this by the European Commission's assessment, as population ageing puts considerable pressure on the sustainability of the pension and health system and the long-term care system. We welcome the evaluation and implementation of palliative care at all levels in the regular health service programme, but pilot projects for the implementation of palliative care will be insufficient. We can also identify ourselves by monitoring the quality of individual healthcare providers and accessibility to key quality indicators. In New Slovenia, we advocate the view that the quality of hospitals and other public health institutions should be public information. In the motion for a resolution, we miss the inclusion or support of preventive programmes of some kind of addiction, such as addiction to modern technology, which is already observed in primary school children due to lifestyles. It also seems to us that there is an unexposed area of fight against corruption and clientism in health care, which also has major financial implications. We believe that the reform of the health system must follow the following points: citizens' satisfaction, the uniformity of the health system and long-term care, the creation of a clear basket of rights, the long-term stability of the system, the introduction of competitiveness, the incorporation of standards and standards, the introduction of modern technologies and procedures, the emphasis on prevention, international enforcement of operators, Slovenian knowledge and innovation in medicine, and the eradication of systemic corruption. Christian Democrats will not oppose the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u200	Nice greetings from the vice president, colleagues, colleagues, the minister! The adoption of the resolution fulfils the legal obligation to adopt a national health plan, which includes a strategy for the development of healthcare for the purpose, vision and mission, principles, objectives, priority development areas and other key elements of strategic planning. The final text of the resolution also takes into account the results of the analysis of the health system in Slovenia, including the review of health expenditure carried out by the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the World Health Organisation and the European Observatory for the Monitoring of Health Systems. It provides the basis for the ten-year development of health care, which is, of course, the preparation and adoption of relevant laws. In the measures envisaged, it shall seek to strengthen and protect health and prevent disease, optimise health services, increase health care performance, fair, solidarity and sustainable financing of healthcare. The resolution, we can say, is based on four values: accessibility, universality, justice and solidarity. Of course, in some segments we can also be critical. The resolution is a good basis and needs to be upgraded primarily with clearly defined objectives, implementing measures and plans and financial assessments. As a document, it is too general and individual areas do not contain development visions. It does not provide adequate solutions for different areas, such as dementia, mental illness, suicide, drug use, patient mobility, the share of private expenses for treatment, long-term care, waiting types and other things to be found. According to our assessment, the content of the document has not yet been properly regulated. I've already listed some of them: a long-term care system, a public health service network, optimisation of health care, financing of healthcare, medicine, dental care. The resolution before us is a document you can't oppose, and we won't. It is, however, a fact that there are many problems in health that need to be addressed now. Unfortunately, this government and this coalition are limping. Of course it's right to look ten years ahead. But we have to see it tomorrow. And the most acute problems in our health care should have been solved yesterday, not until tomorrow. But it's probably a topic for another session.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The text is addressed to Mr Branko Zorman, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u202	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague, colleague! The draft resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 together for the Health Society presents a strategic framework for the management and development of the health care system in Slovenia and a key direction for the preparation and adoption of health insurance and healthcare legislation. With the establishment of clear health guidelines, we have set out how we will, as responsible citizens and representatives of the people in the years to come, ensure that the health sector follows changes in the needs of the population and provides a high level of health services. Together with the many problems that the Ministry of Health has been doing its best and in accordance with its powers of conscience, we have also taken over the situation as a result of the term of office when we do not have a valid health plan in the country, even though this is a statutory obligation of the Health and Health Insurance Act. The last healthcare plan expired already in 2013. It is important to realise that the resolution adopted is a condition for drawing on European cohesion funds, which, after many years of saving in health, constitute an important additional source of resources. In recent times, the Minister of Health has often received criticism that the necessary changes in health care are not taking place quickly enough and that this resolution should already be adopted. However, there is an important argument that the proposed resolution is the logical continuation of a comprehensive analysis of the health system, which has given clear results and is the basis for vision and the identification of priority areas and tasks for the further development of the health system. The national health plan specifically lists the measures, their carriers and the timetable and the expected measurable results. Some will require legislative action and others will be implemented at the implementation level. The red thread of the resolution is a fair, solidarity and sustainable financing of the health system and human health in general, following the programme objectives set by the Modern Centre Party. We are therefore proud that we have finally received a strategic document containing the starting points for the implementation and development of the healthcare system and the key guidelines, which provide a platform for the preparation and adoption of relevant health insurance and health legislation. We support the proposal for a resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 Together for the Health Society of the Modern Centre Party Group, and we want the measures envisaged in the health sector to be taken as soon as possible at the implementation level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u204	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Have a nice hello again! The Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 is a comprehensive act by which the applicant decided to design it as a comprehensive act, which would include both the findings on the state of health and the part where the plans or healthcare plan should be presented in the period up to 2025. And here comes the first dilemma, namely the issue of health care analysis. The fact that the draft resolution was prepared in June 2015 and put to public debate by August 2015 is well known. In December 2015 we received it as a bench in the National Assembly. The resolution in the introduction states that the final proposal for this resolution takes into account the results of the analysis of the health system in Slovenia. But how if the Ministry ordered the analysis in June 2015 and for the first time the analysis was presented in the National Assembly in January 2016? Thus, the resolution was drafted before an analysis was made, which would otherwise have been the basis for the drafting of the resolution. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, this raises the issue of the credibility of the data on the basis of which this resolution is prepared. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also notes that due to the scope of the text relating to the findings of the existing situation, certain guidelines for the future are relatively general. It is precisely because of this approach that we can also see in the resolution some of the records that are inconsistent, such as 'encourage', 'we will recognize' and so on. The resolution, therefore, most of the time simply points to the need for legal change, and it does not offer any original thinking. The indicator that the resolution is poorly prepared is also that the two resolutions are listed in annex below the target values "still in the negotiating phase". We have also warned about this weakness on the Health Committee, but of course it is in vain. In our view, the document should, of course, be complete before it is discussed here in the National Assembly and before it is published in the Official Journal. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that certain content in the motion for a resolution is still not sufficiently clearly defined, as well as the role of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, the long-term care system remains an open issue, the public health service network, the optimization of health care, the waiting line, the financing of health care and only the implementation of the resolution with the holders of tasks. I would also like to stress the fact that the Minister of Labour did not answer most of the opposition's questions, and she concluded her supplicated answers with the words, "I wouldn't, because if we go into all the details we will be too long." But it is a strategic document, however, that the honourable colleagues and the distinguished minister are involved in the resolution. And it wouldn't hurt to be a little longer, at least with answers from the secretary. During the presentation of the resolution, the Minister also informed us that, due to the tasks of the resolution, 14 new civil servants will be employed in 2016, 10 in 2017 and 10 in 2018 as well as 10 new public servants. So there are 34 new civil servants. To this end, the Minister also has additional funding from the Government for 2016 3 million, 6 million for 2017, 7 million for 2018 and 8.6 million for 2019. With this explanation, the Minister said, quote: "All these goals, tasks, specific deadlines and carriers are very difficult and I believe that we will be able to achieve all these tasks with these additional people and additional money." Unfortunately, in view of the work done so far by the Minister and the Ministry of Health, we do not believe this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, given how the resolution was being drafted, and given that it is written in a relatively general, inadequacy and inadequacy, we will not support the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place fully in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m. and 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u206	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly in the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're moving to 17. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal to appoint a Deputy Ombudsman. The Ombudsman shall be by letter of 1. 3. 2016 The National Assembly proposed that Mr Miho Horvat be appointed Deputy Ombudsman. I give the floor to Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman, for further explanation of the proposal for appointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u207	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament! The Ombudsman in the Republic of Slovenia shall have at least two and a maximum of four deputies by law. First guardian of the Magi. Bizjak had three deputies, the next two, and his successor and my predecessor had four deputies. When I became a guardian, the term of office for the first two years expired for the four of us and I proposed that they be reappointed for a term of six years. Even Jernej Rovšek, who had been with the Ombudsman for 21 years, even though I thought he might not complete his term of office at that time. And that's what happened. He retired on 29 February of this year. I did this because I thought he had great credit for the Ombudsman's institution, as he drafted the Ombudsman's Law, participated in its adoption and was also a kind of father of the institution. When he left, I started looking for a deputy or a deputy. I also had some conversations outside the institution, but the people I spoke to, the constitutional lawyers already have their career path and their vision of future life. Last but not least, the guardianship is only for six years, and you never know what will happen to the arrival of a new guardian or guardian as her term expires. That's why I was wondering if there was someone in the collective who was getting out. For three years now, I have closely monitored the work of the adviser to the Ombudsman, Miha Horvat, for he has worked and worked in the field of justice. This is, as you know, the closest I have ever signed to me, and I have always been very happy to sign it, because it has introduced special practice, added the practice of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court and also of the European Court of Human Rights. He did an extraordinary job. When I told him that I was going to propose him as a new deputy, he just explained to me the information that was also shown in the CV. So born in 1981, he graduated from the Faculty of Social Sciences in 2006 and became a university political scientist. Here I have to say that until I talked to him, I thought he was a graduate lawyer, because that's what his products were. But of course he said that in 2007, when he was employed by the Ombudsman and worked in the field of justice – by the way, also Deputy Ivan Shelih was a consultant and then became a successful new deputy – he began his law studies in 2011 and completed all four years, that is, all exams and diplomas, which are of great importance to the Ombudsman. He explained 3,000 400 constitutional decisions, that is, our Constitutional Court in the field of equal protection of rights. He's been teaching us this stuff a lot lately at the Keeper's, and I must say, it's his big job. But he didn't just end up doing it. He enrolled in a doctoral study and just at the time of the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, two days earlier I learned that he had completed his final examination in a doctoral study and had only a task to carry out, i.e. doctoral dissertation. He surprised me with that. But no matter what, so the qualifications he has, he has a lot of knowledge, he's young, he's perspective, so you can trust him. He also passed a second-degree administrative examination and also from mediation. 40 hours of mediation, which is very important to the Keeper. Actively speaking English, passive German, is extremely active also abroad, often leaving and teaching, accepting foreign delegations in our country. In short, a young man is worthy of all confidence, and I am sure that you will also acknowledge it with your voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u208	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u209	President, thank you very much. Dear Guardian, dear colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will of course support the proposal made by the Ombudsman, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, to be called her deputy, Mr Miha Horvat. We are pleased that the Ombudsman has decided to propose to the National Assembly a young but very professional, very subdued and promising candidate. Mr Horvat has been employed for many years in the Office of the Ombudsman, where he has been professionally covering the area of justice. In the collective, it is considered to be a very diligent associate, dedicated work and, above all, professional training. As a lecturer, however, rich knowledge is also passed on to its listeners. Many other positive features on the proposed candidate were presented by the Ombudsman at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and today by the Ombudsman, who spoke mainly in favour of his support. Surely, with undisputed professionalism and ambition, the candidate's advantage is also that he is very well aware of the structure and functioning of the Office of the Ombudsman. Members and Members of the Social Democrats, however, believe that the candidate is also, by his human or personality, the right choice to perform such an important function as the Deputy Ombudsman. We therefore trust the Ombudsman that she has proposed a quality candidate who will use his work and mission to justify his expressed trust. In the event of his election, the Social Democrats wish to cooperate well with all stakeholders and to deal successfully with all the challenges in this for us very important functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u210	The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Erika Dekleva for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u211	Dear President, the Honourable Guardian of Human Rights, Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on the Ombudsman was adopted in 1993 and Article 1 provides for the establishment of the Ombudsman for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to State authorities, local self-government authorities and public authorities. Since then, the Ombudsman has been pressing the road and establishing a certain attitude towards all three branches of government in our country, so its independent and impartial action in protecting the rights of all citizens and citizens is all the more important. We are aware of the importance of appropriate and effective mechanisms for the protection of the rights of individuals in the modern centre Party Group and therefore we also consider the Institute of the Ombudsman to be an important democratic acquisition. Let us add that the Institute of the Ombudsman is a constitutional category set out in Article 159 of the Constitution of Slovenia. The Ombudsman's function is also an extremely responsible function, and it is also appropriate to appoint the guardian's deputies on a case-by-case basis. The Law on the Ombudsman provides that the Ombudsman shall be independent and independent in his work and shall comply with the provisions of the Constitution and international human rights and fundamental freedoms legal acts. Article 15 of the Act also provides that the Ombudsman shall have at least two and a maximum of four deputies appointed by the Ombudsman on a proposal from the National Assembly. So today, on the agenda, we have a proposal to appoint a Deputy Ombudsman, who has received sufficient support already on the Commission's terms of reference. In the SMC Group, when choosing a candidate, we trust the Ombudsman's judgement and believe that the proposed candidate has the appropriate qualifications to perform such an important and responsible function. The areas of work that the candidate will perform require a great deal of work, professional reference, broad visibility, an excellent knowledge of the legal and constitutional order of our country and of the international institutions. When we discuss respect for human rights, freedoms and fundamental human dignity, the expertise, the high reference competence and, above all, the autonomy and independence of candidates representing the institution of the Ombudsman are essential. We will support the proposed candidate in the SMC Group of Members. We also want creative cooperation with him in the National Assembly and at the same time expect his qualitative contribution to the work and reputation of the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u212	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear Lady Guardian! The Human Rights Ombudsman Act provides that the Ombudsman shall have at least two and a maximum of four deputies. All the guardians so far, if we look at it, had four deputies, and the current guardian has decided to do exactly the same for the number of closest associates at the Ombudsman's office. The guardian’s deputies are thus divided into areas and are also responsible for performing the work of the guardian’s deputies at a time when she cannot attend certain events or fairs at which she is invited because of other obligations. However, I regret to note that in certain subjects, particularly related to human rights violations in the judiciary, many times neither the Deputy Ombudsman has responded to the Commission's invitation to petitions and to human rights and equal opportunities to clarify their views. We hope that this will change with the new appointment of a deputy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are closely monitoring the work of the Ombudsman because it is an extremely important function to safeguard respect for human rights. Both the Ombudsman and his deputies must be autonomous in their work and not in any way political in their decisions. Unfortunately, so far, the guardians do not act as expected from them in terms of their responsible role, particularly in protecting the weaker ones. We need the Ombudsman's own initiative to draw attention from themselves to the inadmissibility of certain actions to alert us when human rights violations occur, as they are also enshrined in Article 9 of the Law on the Ombudsman. As the Ombudsman is responsible, it is also responsible for the work of the Deputy Guardians, confirmed by the National Assembly on the proposal of the Ombudsman for a period of six years. When the Ombudsman proposes to the deputies, he must carefully weigh his decision, be convinced that the person appointed to such a demanding position will actually carry out this work as his mission and that he will draw attention to the system's anomalies and to the unacceptable behaviour of institutions towards individuals. I have already explained on the Commission's terms of reference that what we personally consider a problem with today's appointment is that the Ombudsman did not go to the selection of candidates from the external circle, which she also confirmed on the Commission's terms of reference, but chose the candidate for deputy from a narrow, personal work circle. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot judge the candidate's quality at this time, but we can say that others who could bring an additional fresh wind to the Ombudsman's office were not given an opportunity and were thus excluded in advance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will continue to monitor the work of the Ombudsman and Deputys, and we will not support the candidate for a deputy if we expect more responses to certain human rights violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u214	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate of the Ombudsman, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I'll be very short. I might say what I failed to do in those five minutes that I was going to do, but I'm not going to take all the next five minutes. As you can see, he is a young candidate, I must say that he is highly professional, that he also has support within the collective, and that a person who, in fact, is also opening up themes that are important to the Ombudsman, but also important to the wider society, i.e. the so-called broader issues. I must say that really often I cannot attend meetings alone in the National Assembly, which are being called, but it is also the case that Deputy Ivan Shelih, who covers the area, often attended the Commission for Petitions and other committees. And even next week will be one of those opportunities. Perhaps I would conclude that it is just one of all the so - called viceroys and deputies, it is a mag. Cornelia Mrzel at the former guardian came to this position following a call that was made public. All others were gathered by the guardians, and as it were said, John Shelih was also within the collective because the former guardian recognized him as an expert. If I recall correctly, Mr Hanžek, the current Member, also said that he was the deputy under whom the products were gladly signed and read only to – if I recall correctly – you said he had learned something else. As a lawyer myself, I was happy to read Mr Horvath's products, and they are indeed top-notch products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u216	I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. I am voting on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Miha Horvat as Deputy Ombudsman. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group is given by Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. We will vote in the United Left for a number of reasons. One of the important things that should be learned in Slovenia is that the Ombudsman's decisions are respected both in the findings of human rights violations and in his decision or in his decision, which he will take as his first associate or one of the first four associates. Here I would also like to say that it is extremely difficult to get a deputy Ombudsman, when I was looking for a fourth deputy, I was two years without a fourth deputy because I simply couldn't get one. We also made a call, but in the end I had to make a decision about a man who had already been there at work. However, I also think it is good for someone as an expert to learn about work, to prove his expertise, his commitment to human rights, his commitment to the institution and his colleagues, and thus progresses from the beginning, as is the case with the current Deputy Ombudsman. After all, the work of the Ombudsman is extremely specific work and the Deputy covers many things and must see more than just a lawyer because it is a specific work. After a few years of working with the guardian, you get all these qualities. For Miho Horvat, I also personally asked some of his acquaintances, and I don't know him personally, except that I met him when I was officially in this institution. Everyone said, a hat down for expertise, extremely well written, expressed, diligent and, among other things, a good colleague, a teammate. We will therefore be happy to support this proposal in the United Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u218	We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 16. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly appointed Mr Miho Horvat as the Deputy Ombudsman, so I ask him to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u219	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u220	I congratulate the Deputy Ombudsman on his appointment and wish him a successful job. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the discharge of the President and members of the National Council for Culture. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Mr Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u221	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The President of the National Council for Culture Methods Pevec and four members: Dr. Milena Mileva Blažič, Dr. Andrej Blatnik, Dr. Sonja Ana Hoyer and Alja Predan resigned a few months ago and the Ministry proposed a discharge to the Government and the Government. Given that it has been quite a while since then, and we miss this body at the Ministry, which is currently unable to act because it is a ministerial advisory body, we have already prepared a proposal for a new session, in part, because two of the previous members have remained, namely, Ms Ursula Cetinski, for the members of Dr Andrej Gaspari, Silvan Omerzu, mag. Andrejo Richter and a well-known writer, the recent Prešeren prize winner of Tonet Partljič. Of course, today on the programme is only the first part of this action, the discharge of the President and the members so far, and in order for the National Council for Culture to act again as soon as possible, I hope that this resolution will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u222	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision that resolves the President of the National Council for Culture, Mr Pevec, and members and members: Dr. Andrej Blatnik, Dr. Milena Mileva Blažić, Dr. Sonja Ana Hoyer and Mrs Alja Predan. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Only Jereb is 17. 3. 2016 gave a derogation statement to the National Assembly from the position of second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. On the basis of that Rule of the Court of Auditors and Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Commission proposes that, on the basis of the sixth paragraph of Article 10(1) of the Law on the Court of Auditors and Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the following decision be taken: 5. 2016 resigns from the post of second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors and is therefore subject to Article 10, paragraph 6, of the Court of Auditors Act of 6 July 2016. 5. The mandate of the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors shall expire in 2016. I'm guessing the National Assembly has made a decision. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, I shall immediately inform the President of the Republic and the President of the Court of Auditors of the suspension of the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, chairman. Once again, of course, I will say that the United Left of this novelty will not support it. Regardless of our ideological, valuable and different differences, one would expect that in this composition of the National Assembly or in any other, we are all in fact in favor of protecting the environment. In this three-round debate, unfortunately, that is not the case. Under the pretext of some urgent amendments, the introduction of directives, the revisions of old directives, this amendment opens a gap that will allow the arrival of new so-called dirty technologies in Slovenia and at the same time make public participation more difficult. In the debate that took place with regard to this law, I have heard some unacceptable things: making fun of the State Council, making fun of environmentalists, whom some consider to be non-digested. The whole story is literally based on lying. I was told several times that I could say more to deception. No, no, no. Lying to the district minister with a team that "must do something." In the United Left, of course, we checked the directive with experts in several languages and, of course, "doesn't have to". In short, this kind of environmental sweeping that this composition of the National Assembly affords is under any possible criticism. And now, on behalf of the United Left, I'm going to move back here a little bit, because I'd really start talking very rudely. They were not only environmentalists against this type of innovation. Against this type of amendment, the Council of State unanimously voted veto. On this issue, employers and the United Left are on the same line. In this composition of the National Assembly, it is obvious that only we from the United Left and colleagues and colleagues from the Group of Non-Aligned Members are taking the environmental issue seriously. It is also the responsibility of the Members and Members of the National Assembly to listen to what is going on outside of this, I will hope to hold back the word of the hens, but somehow you have sat on your ears, which is, of course, mildly said unacceptable and expresses some vehementity of such an executive branch of power as I am afraid of the legislative branches of power. In the United Left we will vote against and if this amendment is voted on, it is a great shame for Slovenia, for this national assembly and, of course, for the executive power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u224	Ms Vesna Vervega has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the modern centre Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The new Environmental Protection Act, which we are deciding about again, does not reduce the quality standards of the environment. The regulation of environmental standards in law itself is difficult enough and also contains sufficient safety mechanisms. The 10th paragraph of Article 10 of the amendment provides that the Ministry may set less stringent emission limit values than determined on the basis of the BAT conclusions, and that this limit value may not exceed the limit values prescribed under Article 17 of this Law, which states that the level of environmental protection achieved may not deteriorate and that the emission limit values and other requirements may also be set more stringently than those laid down in the BAT conclusions. The 12th paragraph of this Article also states that the less stringent emission limit values referred to in this paragraph cannot be established if this would jeopardise the achievement of the environmental quality standards referred to in Article 23 of this Law, or if the device is located in the area referred to in Article 24 of this Law, thus to the degraded area. We have also heard that the Ministry of the Environment is planning an additional arrangement, by amending the IED Regulation, by also setting out more detailed guidelines for the preparation of an assessment of disproportionately higher costs compared to environmental benefits. Likewise, in the SMC Group, we do not agree that the termination of the environmental authorisation period means, in fact, the exclusion of the public from the issuing or modifying of the environmental permit, since no article of the law governing public participation procedures changes. That's why we're going to support the new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u226	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popot has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. When we re-decision on the Law on amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, we would first talk about the issues which sparked the most opposition during the debate. Before that, I would say that the amendment does not lower environmental standards. With regard to the elimination of the time limit on the validity of the environmental licence, it should be said that Directive 2010/75 does not contain a requirement for Member States to limit the validity of authorisations. The Republic of Slovenia has been among the rare countries, if not the only ones where such a time limit has been imposed. The Directive only requires the competent authority to verify at regular intervals and, if necessary, update the conditions in the authorisation. The applicable law in Article 77 lays down the obligations of the competent authority to review and amend the applicable authorisation for a particular device whenever its operator intends to make an amendment to the device. The applicable law also lays down, together with the proposed amendments and additions in Article 78, the obligation of the competent authority to review and amend the applicable environmental authorisation in certain cases following an official duty. I would also like to point out that the proposed addition to the current Regulation, by which the competent authority is required to review and, if necessary, amend the environmental protection authorisation every 10 years if the environmental protection authorisation was not amended at that time for any other reason. The public and the public concerned also have the same rights after amending the current regime as regards participation in the authorisation and modification procedures as in the applicable regulation in accordance with the requirements of the relevant Directives. The public therefore has every right to include and co-decision in the environmental authorisation process. In view of the possibilities for certain less stringent limit values, the Ministry will be able to set less stringent emission limit values than determined on the basis of BAT conclusions, only if a specific condition or conditions are met. Once again, I stress that regulation is difficult enough and that is why the environment will not be destroyed in Slovenia. In the Desus Group, we will therefore back up the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u228	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Then he has an explanation in his own name, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, again. For all I know, Slovenia is still a constitutional parliamentary democracy. Environmental protection is a constitutional category governed by Articles 71 to 73 and in part Article 74, which speaks of an economic initiative. The State Council has already announced a constitutional judgment. I'm going to repeat this again, because obviously one of you didn't fold your ears properly, the novelization introduces a gap that allows dirty technologies and novelization makes it difficult for the public to participate, it mistranslates the directive, which I explained to you in the morning, in a way that I will not translate into Slovenian: Kadija judges me, the kadija sues me. Those 200 players who participate in these devices will submit something to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior, which has a number of problems with the ARSO, will then set something on fire. At the same time, we will be given a constitutional review of this amendment. This would be understandable to my seven-year-old daughter, who will probably have to move out of Slovenia if we continue to deal with environmental protection. Of course I will vote against it because it is my civic duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u230	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 12. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. It's 55 for the vote, against 3. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Certification of Accounts. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on tax clearance of accounts is suitable for further consideration. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats will confirm the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on tax clearance of accounts, and will support this decision. This is the first novel of the Law on tax clearance of accounts, which was introduced by this law from 1. 1. 2016, the second is already in the national assembly procedure. I believe that more novelties will follow because we have a major problem with the introduction of this law. The law on tax clearance of accounts is indisputable, as we all know today, and especially the debtors, is a huge fiasco of this coalition. We wanted only minimal changes in this bill, and we wanted this debate today to show that it was a problem, and it also showed that it was a problem and that then in the second reading on the home labour body we might improve the solution. We wanted to exempt voluntary firefighters. What is currently happening to voluntary firefighters by introducing a law on tax clearance of accounts is not acceptable. That's not acceptable. We always praise and worship firefighters when they very effectively save property and human life in some kind of natural disaster, in a fire, in a flood, when the stomach and even in the face of a refugee crisis. At that time, they were good when they did their job, and so did we, or the more accurate investment policy, turned their backs on them. Look, that's not right, that's not fair. Our second solution, or second part of the solution, is to exempt from tax confirmation accounts of taxpayers with turnover of less than 50,000 euros per annum and to re-establish the consumer as king in some way. The buyer is the king, we've studied those we've ever been in the real sector, the consumer is the king. But here's where someone else is standing on this king who punishes him, as the line says, with 40 euros, if this consumer doesn't take one cup of coffee or even for some minor good and doesn't feed him until he leaves the business space. This is the wrong approach, and for this reason we have written this law in our premises at the premises of the New Slovenia Group. But it was made in the field. It was created in the area where we meet with the debtors, entrepreneurs, those who create jobs, those who know the most that money does not grow in the tree, those who open new jobs and open them up even more if it were a good business environment, and unfortunately it is not, so we will continue to be egalitarian in poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u232	Mr Tillen Bozič has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. We still stand behind that law that we passed last July, and twice, for the first time, for the second time, is the answer to the Council of State. It is not that we do not have the analysis at this time or at this time. The point is that we do not even have the data on which such an analysis could be made. For once, we have only one month's data, we are waiting for those who will refer to the three-month-old VAT debtors, and also to the last, it is said that those who are not VAT-bound and will submit annual reports by the end of March next year. While we do not have this information, it is extremely difficult to discuss any concrete improvements because we need concrete facts and circumstances to do so. If we move on. As far as tax registers are concerned, we are of the view that this is certainly not a politically welcome move, because there have been quite a few contradictions, but we are still in the SMC, as we wrote in the programme, still in the view that this was a necessary move, so, as has already been said in the introduction, we stand behind it. The current proposal goes into three areas, according to those who make up to 50,000 annual traffic, voluntary fire companies, fairly partial, and also the abolition of possible penalties for buyers. For those of the EUR 50,000, we do not agree with this somehow because there are a number of groups of high-risk debtors, and the flat-rate exclusion could actually match the system that we have set up. When we talk about voluntary firefighting companies, it goes on and on, we can talk about local communities, other NGOs that also operate in one important area of charity and social engagement. What's the base here? Third, as regards the abolition of the penalty for customers, there is no practice so far in order to be subject to a strong criminal policy of the debtors. Here is the penalty of 20 euros, if paid in 8 days, and here we also have the opportunity under the bill of limitations to remind the buyers that they are being reminded. And this measure, as we know, has been exemplaryly applied so far. We do not go, as we have been told, against firefighters, but, above all, we ensure that the debtors must be treated fairly in carrying out the same market activity, i.e. equally. If I can conclude now on this basis, we will therefore not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u234	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 48. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is appropriate for further consideration. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u235	Thank you, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will, of course, support its own proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act. We have by no means proposed this solution or even thought that standards relating to protection at work would be reduced. On the contrary, I have repeatedly said in the debate that we want to maintain standards or that technology is changing so quickly that it is not being achieved by regulation that we even want to improve them. But on the other hand, of course, we want to take measures in the National Assembly that will not reduce jobs. On the contrary. Which will encourage the creation of new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a new business policy, we need a new business model. As it has been so far, it will not go into the future. That is why Europe also tells us: you need structural reforms. First, we should all learn what structural reforms mean and then accept these reforms. Now's the time. The year 2018 when it will be and if it will be elective, if not sooner, it will be too late. In the electoral year, structural reform is not usually adopted. If anyone is satisfied with 1.7% economic growth, forgive me, we are not in New Slovenia. We are not satisfied with such miserable, low pensions, which fall into reality every year and no one does anything. We have big fighters, we're all pension fighters, we're retired, but pensions crash, they fall real, and no one does anything. We only need this moment to make this country function 50 thousand new jobs. And we also have to ask ourselves, especially the ruling coalition, we in New Slovenia are already wondering why there are no important foreign investors in Slovenia. We're such a nice country, we have such nice people, we have such nice people, we're so kind, but here and there, some foreign investor comes. Others go to other countries, such as the Czech Republic and so on and Slovenia is not interesting. Why isn't it interesting? I think it is high time, ladies and gentlemen, for us to find the answers to these questions and then to act accordingly. This is one such micro-response in this novel law, which would, of course, be welcome for workers and employers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u236	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we will vote against this proposal. Reducing safety at work is unacceptable to us. And this is the heart of today's proposal, which rewards employers, capitalists for negligence in ensuring the safety and health of their employees. I can't bring this down as a socialist. The structural role of the capitalist employer in a market organised company is to pursue profits. Therefore, ensuring safety at work costs him directly or indirectly. The only way to ensure the health and safety of employees in individual businesses, in particular sectors, is to prepare the employer, by means of legal regulation, with the threat of sanctions, from the fact that he will, however, intervene in his own profits and take care of the safety and health of employees. It is totally unacceptable that we, as a society, give up some of these values, and we will therefore vote against this proposal in the United Left. We must not forget, however, that the average in the last three years, as far as accidents are concerned, is at an unsuspectingly high level – as much as 9 thousand 509 on an annual average, of which 439 are more serious accidents, are increasing. In 2014, however, we had 23 deaths. And if anything, these trends and these numbers tell us that the safety and health regulation in the workplace needs to be tightened up first, even more pressure on employers, rather than lowering these standards. As we say, we will vote against lowering these standards.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u238	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 53. (For the vote was 19.)(against 53.) I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 Joint Health Society. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to decisions on the motion for a resolution in full. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. The vote was 59 and against 16. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 15. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. There were 60 votes in favour and no one in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the drafter of the bill is already under consideration 24. 3. In 2016, he proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly at that meeting, carry out a third examination of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. It's 50 for the vote and 20 for the vote. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Thursday, 31. 3. 2016, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Company of the Slovenian Railway in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 1. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u239	Thank you for your word, President. In the United Left, we propose deleting Article 1. Why? You know we're against the privatisation of infrastructure. We can reparaphrase Novo Slovenija a little bit, and we also walk very much on the ground in the United Left, especially I do very field research on public passenger traffic and consequently also cargoes. Experience has shown that such privatisations of infrastructure have proved to be a fiasco. The United Kingdom, for example, has recently also been depriving itself of a whole range of privatised infrastructures at city level. They have major railway problems, lower standards, more accidents and so on. This amendment is probably triggered through pressure, let's stop blinding ourselves, Germany for the entry of the German Bundesbahn into the traffic section of the Slovenian Railways through the subsidiary. It's simple, that's clear. Whoever's pretending not to understand it, then I don't know what he's looking for in politics. We are against such privatisations, and at the same time I can say that in this debate I had the feeling that I was talking to myself. In part, Mr Weber said something, which surprises me a little, why he is not already in the opposition, because we made it clear that if you go into this, one would expect a reverse order first to explain why it is going into what it means. But in this country, in this composition of the executive branch and the national assembly, we have some reverse burden of proof. First we're gonna take something on the roof, then we're gonna be a little bit of a burner in the mist, what's gonna happen and what's gonna happen. Okay, the excuse was to coordinate this with the government's asset management strategy. We said we'd look at how the state property management strategy was going on. The task of the National Assembly, MEPs and Members is also to watch how legislation, strategies are implemented, and finally how the PKK works because it does not work, but somehow it is forgotten. There is no way in the United Left that we can support such approaches, such as reverse-grabing by legislation and by strategies, so this amendment proposes that this article be deleted and that infrastructure be changed in a way of thinking, not small minds. I hope you will support our amendment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u240	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 66. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. Since time is relatively short, we will vote against it. There's something else I'd like to draw your attention to. In this debate, which was almost undebateable, we focused only on this matter of arrival or not coming if you want, Bundesbahna. Nothing was discussed on rail infrastructure as it should have been. However, I will not touch the second track, we could touch the connection of Divac – Trieste, we could touch the climb into the corridors, we could touch the slightly more serious thought of climbing into the silk road, we could touch the cooperation of different ports, so that I would not even get to passenger traffic where, on behalf of the coalition's leading party, the president of the mother's labour body literally said that we were too small in Slovenia and therefore we would not be seriously involved in passenger traffic. You know, if we're looking at the spatial agglomerations, there's just as few in Norway, and they're just as few in Denmark, and they're serious about it. Even more. In Norway they are not so obsessed with motorways and you do not have a highway between Oslo and Bern, but you have very regulated rail traffic. At the same time, in this National Assembly or in the United Left, we will listen to what sometimes forces us to vomit, the green economy, the circular economy up and down, but at the same time we have such an amendment to the Environmental Protection Act and such reckless amendments to key infrastructure issues. Of course we'll vote against it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u242	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 66 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, second reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 and 49. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As in the second reading of the amendment to the amended draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. The vote was 57 and against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Operations, insolvency proceedings and forced termination under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled at 29. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 1(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to the same Article shall become irrelevant under point two. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u243	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. In the United Left, we have tabled an amendment to Article 1 of this Law, which is before us. Why did we put him in? Because we find that the employees in this law are double bullied: both substantive and formal. They are formally bullied because this law is simply too complicated to be used without the support of various advisory services. Now we have essentially a tenth amendment to this law, which has more than five hundred articles. Among other things, I think we know that 221. With article 44. Experts who are seriously involved in this law refer to it as a minefield, and to walk through it as an indicative course, because there are so many provisions for referral in it. This law is useless for practical use, unless you are a recognized legal service with resources that can afford some reading. Therefore, in enforcement procedures, bankruptcys and so on, employees have to take short notice after the formal salary because, unlike the State, banks or owners, they cannot afford this expensive advice. That's the first thing. The second consciousness, however, is being bullied by the fact that banks, states and owners, in addition to this formal advantage that I have described, also have a substantive advantage under this law. When payments are made, the bankruptcy banks are entitled to the whole and the employees can only bid for the last three salaries and for the last three months of unpaid contributions and for a retirement equivalent to the retirement which follows the dismissal for business reasons. So the banks can get the whole, the employees can only get the last three months. This is totally unfair, given that, as I have already said, they are being bullied in addition to formality, so we have tried in the United Left with our amendment to at least partially eliminate injustice in this law, by amending with the amendment the fact that employees can bid for all unpaid salaries, the payment of all unpaid contributions, without limitation on departures. This is the content of this amendment. As I have said several times in the debate, there is no reason not to accept it or not to accept it, but then it is important to think in the direction that banks are allowed only to bid for loans granted in the last three months if such a restriction applies to employees. We will, of course, vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u244	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u245	Thank you so much for saying that. We will vote against this amendment because we believe it is a disproportionate extension of the intervention to the bankruptcy mass. About this privilege of banks and I don't know what to just clear up what we're talking about. We're talking about an amendment that concerns Article 21 of the Insolvency Act, which does not favour banks. Look at article 21 of the ZFPPIPP, not privileged by banks, but privileged workers. This is only about the extent to which the employees' claims will be privileged, either for one year or for three months or for half a year, as proposed in the amendment of the coalition. We will not support this amendment. However, it is essential that the public is not misled and that it is not said that banks are privileged because I repeat once again, Article 21 does not favour banks. Some other articles set out claims that are, for example, secured and which result in exclusion rights, while others are ordinary claims and may also cover employees' salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u246	The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u247	Thank you. I'll start procedurally. That wasn't an explanation for the voice, it was a controversy. But since you didn't warn me, I'll answer that question. Of course, this article does not talk about banks, but it does talk about employees. We have tried to remedy the systemic injustice in this law that I have described, saying that banks, states and owners are privileged twice, formally and substantively, to eliminate in this way that we are in an article that has been opened, and in an article that limits employees to be able to run for priority payment only in the last three salaries, to remove this restriction. To at least this way offer them equality in this law. That is why we are amending this article, and that is essentially all the change we want to make. However, we do not understand, once again, why anyone in his right mind could be against the fact that employees, after a company has gone bankrupt or is in the process of being forced to settle, may require the payment of all unpaid salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u248	Dr. Jasna Murgel has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u249	We will not support the amendment of the United Left because it does not affect any position of banks at all, but only extends the scope of the privileged claims of workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u250	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u251	Of course, I will vote for the amendment because it is not the privilege of workers. If anyone in this society is deprived, it's the workers who still have the job. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u252	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 47. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 1(2). Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, again. This amendment came essentially in response to our amendment. So the difference between this and our amendment is that we wanted to make all unpaid wages a priority. He's been in the current system for three months. With this amendment, the coalition essentially offered a concession to extend from three to six months. This is a step forward, so we will also support it, but I repeat that we do not see any reason for not including all unpaid salaries as we intended. But we will support it because it is definitely a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u254	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. (The vote was 74.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 8. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. (For the vote was 21.)(against 47.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 15. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 48. (For the vote was 21.)(against 48.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 32. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. (The vote was 71.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the drafter of the bill is already under consideration 24. 3. In 2016, he proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly at this meeting, carry out a third examination of the draft law and that we move on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. (The vote was 53.)(against 1.) I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Thursday, 31. 3. 2016, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. Following a proposal from Member Bojana Dobovška, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Dr Bojan Dobovška's question on the Government's communication strategy. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u255	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We wanted to draw attention to the public information strategy and, above all, to the parliaments of these governments. We have noted that information is going very badly, and we have highlighted in particular the problem of the migration crisis, where there has been no information from local communities, parliament and the public. The government advocates the fact that the bad situation is the fault of the media and those who point out mistakes. We have warned that it is better than hiring a crisis pyre to hire professionals built a career, but there will be no problems in the country. We have highlighted in particular economic growth, which is not what was expected, and the government, through the statistics it has a monopoly, shows a different state than it really does. Statistics are like bikinis, what's hidden is most important. And the indicators that are hidden are that the European Commission warns that they are not the same as the government is trying to show them, because budget estimates are different. Umar also points out that economic growth is not the same as it is trying to present. There is no growth in domestic consumption and no decline in investment, which is linked to the acquisition of funds from the European Union. In view of this, we expect a debate to be held on government communication, both with Parliament, with the public and with the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u256	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Mir Cerar to Mr Mag's question. Branka Grims related to the press conference of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 22. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u257	Your Honor! We've heard about safety many times. Security is a good thing that everyone should put first. We've heard that everything else has an advantage. We've been talking about a multiculture. You know, Paris is a multicultural, Cologne is a multicultural, and now Brussels is a multicultural. This is a problem facing not only Slovenia today, but the whole of Europe. On the other hand, measures taken in Slovenia are taken too slowly or not at all. Many hear about how to ensure a higher level of security. When I talk to the people who are doing this in practice, it is a matter of negligible measures, let's say that at which airport an additional officer is doing his job is not similar. Is this what this country is obliged to provide its citizens? It is the responsibility of this country to ensure security, to ensure respect for human rights for all citizens and citizens and to ensure consistent respect for personal integrity. At least we should have an agreement on that. When there was now an outrageous crime in Brussels, the government responded, as if it were almost someone else's problem, as if we were not in the European Union, as if we were not reading in the media today, that the Slovenian, the diplomat who was wounded, was badly wounded, and will very likely have the consequences of this attack for the rest of his life. It is also a developmental issue, of course, because security is becoming a good thing, a good thing that attracts those countries, investors, entrepreneurs, where security will be evident. And it's a problem for all those who won't be safe. In Slovenia we are witnessing a completely opposite process as we would like. On the one hand, the most educated young people go abroad because there is no appropriate entrepreneurial environment; on the other hand, the borders have opened wide to nearly half a million illegal people across Slovenia. And now it's all coming back like a boomerang. Not just Slovenia, but all of Europe. I am therefore firmly convinced that this is a topic that we should speak openly about once in this House. Also because, at the last such conversation, we did not receive any appropriate explanations from the Government. The government has never explained to Parliament or the public how it will take action to address the migration crisis properly to ensure security. That is why this discussion is necessary and why this debate is necessary, and that is why we will be in SDS. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u258	Matjaž Hanžek has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u259	Security is certainly important, but Europe and Slovenia should think about security when we agreed to send missiles, planes, ships, thousands of soldiers over the Middle East when Europe helped kill several hundred thousand people there, destroy cities, villages, hospitals, etc. Those who then, decades ago and no longer asked what would happen sooner or later when millions of people would lose their homes to go somewhere missed the opportunity to think about security. People run, run for their lives. We have helped or remained silent, some also actively, that millions of people have lost their roofs, that millions of people kill the same people, that these people are running from the same terrorists who are also setting bombs in Europe. They've been punished twice. First, because they're running away from them, secondly, when we reject them and have no compassion for the victims, our victims in particular. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u260	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u261	Your Honor! The issue of security is not a short-term issue and is not conditioned by wars in the Middle East. It's very short-sighted to think that way. This wave of migrants has set off a common wave of interests in Europe, a pile of money. This wave has long gone beyond fear of war or saving lives. The vast majority of those who went through Slovenia were from countries where there were no wars at all. Most of those who have now participated in the various crimes we have witnessed are not from countries where war would be. But Europe made a fatal mistake and was also allowed by the Slovenian government when it opened the door wide and let everything it wanted in. And now it's coming back like a boomerang, and that won't be a short-term problem. That's a long-term problem. This is why this debate is important because it has by no means been able to stop this current. There will be more of this when the witness drops across the border now, and believe it when it comes to spring. In addition, everything against the regulations was illegally dropped across the borders of the Republic of Slovenia by the Slovenian Government last year at the beginning of this year will return as a security boomerang. That is why this debate is absolutely necessary because this is a matter of political interest. This is about money, this is about everything that really drives this flow. Just talking about wars, it's a lot too small and very short-sighted. It's actually a lot more than that. It is a security issue and it is a question of the future of Europe, which was very well addressed a week ago by one of the SD Members when he said: Europe will either be based on or will not be based on Christian tradition.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u262	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mesca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Mesca on the Alpine question and the management of state property. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u263	Thank you for your word, again. I have asked the Prime Minister a very simple question about the bad bank, its general business, and specifically about the Alps, which is a symptomatic example of the operation of this institution and the policies that this government is taking with regard to the companies that are located at a bad bank. The scheme is very simple. We have Alpino, a well-standing company, creating profits, which last year was more than half a million, offering 355 jobs in the Jireh and a thousand and 500 jobs in the group. So it's an internationally established company that's good standing up, making profits, but it's a bad bank. Why? Since the former owners of Infond Holding have placed €42 million of credit on it and now the company is burdened with this loan, for which it must also pay interest, it is about €700,000 per year. What does a bad bank do? A weak bank this company, which is good, starts restructuring, which means cuts, redundancies, closing down departments, closing down trades, destroying development. On the other hand, we have an owner who has created these 42 million debts out of his own greed, but who now lives peacefully in Dubai. So, on the one hand, we have the owner, who is directly, personally, personally responsible for 42 million euros in debt and enjoys Dubai, and on the other hand, we have employees who had no say in these loans, who are now at risk of losing 150 jobs in the Gir. This is a policy pursued by a state institution called the Banks Claims Management Company or by a domestic bad bank. I asked the Prime Minister what they would do about such cases, not only the Alps, but what they would do about such cases, and why they had not yet taken action on the conclusions we adopted on the Alps at the meeting we had at the initiative of the United Left in the National Assembly at the Finance Committee. Now at least this second, these conclusions have been realized in the Alps since then, things have moved on and employees are very pleased that they have finally stumbled into the open ears, concerning the requirements of restructuring, forgiveness and non-cooperation with the local community. So there we hope that things will move forward as I have asked my question. But the general problem with the policies of the bad bank remains. That is why I insist on my request for a debate, and I think it is time to talk more than once about what a bad bank is doing on our behalf as a state institution in these companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u264	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? No, no, no. First, an explanation in your own name, Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u265	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues, colleagues! I myself will support my colleague Luke Mesca's request for a debate in the National Assembly on this issue, not because I would share the United Left's opinion on how to manage businesses far away, but because we obviously have the same point, and that is that we are both against what is going on in the Alps. As a Member coming from this province, where Alpina is also a company, this is called the Municipality of Jiri, but some progress has been made, especially when we started to question this issue, even here in the National Assembly, when the conclusions of the SDS Group were also adopted, that some revision or, above all, study the usefulness and efficiency of this Treaty, the rationality of the Alpine Treaty with Admetam were also adopted. I was informed on Thursday that one of the DUTB Executive Directors, Mr Baloh, had come to Alpine, where they met with employees and leaders, and where they surprisingly found out what I had said long ago that employees in the Alps were not but priori against some kind of restructuring, but they were against restructuring in this way. I am pleased that they have found that Admetam is not an appropriate advisory firm for this company and is therefore withdrawing at the end of April. There was also a discussion about the resignation of the principal, which some demanta have already come up with today. However, I call on you here, too, Mr Milan Brglez, President of the National Assembly, to help us keep this company safe, because there are growing rumors that your wife's brother is coming to the head of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u266	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. I'd like to add to what Luke was talking about. This afternoon, after too long of time, I was turning the data back on Stat.si and Slovenia is unfortunately becoming a society and a country where we are increasingly determined by the location. In short, where you come from determines what quality of life you will have. And we are increasingly clinging to what I say, first, second and third Slovenia. We do not all have this happiness or misfortune to live in Ljubljana and some other centres that are still doing relatively well, some also do not want to live or do not want to live, with all due respect, in these geographical locations. Both Mira Cerar's government and the boys at DUTB, as the boys in the state holding company, and I'm also a lady there to make the smoker look nice, but somehow they're not aware that most local and regional environments in Slovenia are the story of the Alpine. It is a story that we have one, one and a half, rarely two employees in which this local, regional environment stands and falls. And it seems to me that we should be more aware of this in the light of after all, because Slovenia's GDP and this budget generates exports and generates these and such companies mainly on the shoulders of underpaid employees. In short, you know the money doesn't come from Tomšič and Šubičev a few kilometers around here, but it comes from something that someone would call the real sector, although even public administration can, of course, if it is a good, real sector. And that's why I'm going to back it up. I will also support this because many of the Jews and Žirovkas who went around the world have sent an appeal for the preservation of the Alps, including my spiritual father, academic Mlinar, and could not have supported him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u268	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will, of course, support this debate. In particular, because I come from an environment where Paloma is stationed, where he has become or is stationed, if the court does not prevent it, the owner of this PRS holding company from Cyprus is called a tax oasis company. First, an undertaking was negotiated, some fund from Poland, but after the contract had to be signed, this PPRS holding agreement was signed from Cyprus. This is an unacceptable, undignified, tasteless, extremely perverted act when it comes to the destruction of state property. But that's not the most important thing yet, at the time this team is in power, this coalition and this government are defending this way. That's the way they defend it. Since in Paloma, at the time this procedure began, they had the first chance, since there were six different interested parties to buy the company, they preferred only one. It's clear why. And what happened? In order to succeed in this regard, I will say, malicious intentions have been forgiven by at least 15 or up to 20 key professionals working at Paloma by how to keep Paloma alive from 1873 until today. These people were thrown on the road, imported from Primorska and so on and so on. And now in the end, they're trying to decompose a disabled company. That's amazing what they're willing to do. Unbelievable! It's amazing what these quasi owners are doing. Look, dear colleagues, why is this address in Finance today? Why? This title says: “Slovakias go mad, corruption eats up 4 billion euros a year.” And that's what I'm talking about right now, and this needs to be a public debate, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u270	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. (For the vote was 22.)(against 44.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Trcko, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to the question of Mr Franz Trc, on the question of involvement in the trade union and the non-coordination of the work of diplomatic representatives. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u271	Thank you for your word. I hope this is my last call today, but it's not necessary. Mr Erjavac and I have been hunting for quite some time for him to appear in the National Assembly and answer this question. Since you are quite a few lawyers in this composition of the National Assembly, you are well aware that there is also Article 8 of the Constitution, which speaks of international treaties, directness and so on. Mr Erjavec himself is a lawyer, he is a minister for the living, and he is also a minister for the living, except he will never be a minister for the family, the work and so on, because he should roll up his sleeves. Mr Erjavec violates ratified international conventions, in particular the International Labour Organisation No. 87. He's involved in the operation of the Youth Union in the department he runs. In short, again some unconstitutional activity. This is a well-known case of the Gove, which will, of course, lead to the fact that this gentleman will entangle the country. Of course, I'm not Golob's lawyer, because I'm not a primary-education lawyer either. At the same time, of course, I also asked Mr Erjavac, what he had somehow heard, about the problem of the uncoordinated part of diplomatic representations, in particular the statement by Mr Kacin, who you have somehow welcomed giving him this ambassadorial mandate, where I will use your language, in a way that is literally for a diplomat, inadvertently. There's nothing else I can say. Whenever something happens, it is from the ambassadors of NATO that Mr Kacin is the one who is the sharpest to say the human language. In short, there are two unacceptable phenomena in a very important foreign ministry. It seems to me that it would be necessary to have a serious debate on this in the light as well, I will be a little personal, because I am too ashamed of myself in front of many foreign diplomats, as well as many citizens and citizens. In short, some unconstitutional interference with the work of the union and probably some non-coordination or uncontrolled first post office in the ministry over its diplomats, in particular some specific diplomat at the NATO office in Brussels. I hope you will vote in favour of this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u272	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 46. (For the vote was 22.)(against 46.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marijan Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Dark to the question of Mr Marijan Pojbič on the increase in poverty in Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that today extremely many things have been said in one way or another, as regards the conditions for the life and future of our citizens and citizens. Among other things, I think it should be very clear that in Slovenia more than 30% of people are already on the brink of poverty. Here's one piece I've been talking about the last time. It's only right that I remind him again. Dragica Maresić, a retired social worker, a member of the OPS, wrote: “Only a few known figures can be checked on the Internet, which are related to the planned violation of human rights due to poverty in the independent Republic of Slovenia: 107 000 488 unemployed, 290 000 people under the poverty threshold, 150 000 to 250 000 registered alcoholics, over 4,000 homeless, 290 000 sick people, 525 thousand 206 prescriptions for antidepressants, 448 suicides, 160,000 recipients of the Red Cross, 54,000 recipients of social assistance, 410 thousand people at risk of social exclusion, 206 thousand pensioners at the threshold of poverty, 48 thousand recipients of the minimum wage.” If this is not enough alarming data for everyone sitting in this House to raise their hand now and vote in order to hold a broader debate on how to do this in the key and in the long term an extremely important issue. I can't believe they're sitting in the National Assembly, Desus. I told them how their pensioners and the pensioners are living. After not talking about SDs that say that they are always advocating social policy, and that I am not talking about an ethical party, a moral-ethical social party, what the SMC already is, I don't know what I would call it, actually, the Mir Cerar Party. And you're defending something about what I said in numbers, and now you're laughing at it in the end. I have said this a little bit now in the final work, but in the first part of my debate I wanted to point out very clearly and very clearly the key problems, which are at present crucial to the existence and future, not only those who are burdened with it, but also these generations. Where are our children, our grandchildren? Where are our children, our grandchildren? And if you find this ridiculous, the coalition and the government, or the government is not here, unfortunately, but the coalition, then I'm really asking you if you're in this National Assembly or maybe I'm wrong, maybe there's a barrier here that's just meant for you. That's what we're gonna do. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u274	In your own name? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u275	Thank you for your word. I don't know why some people laugh at what Comrade Pojbič says. The fact is, we don't know what it's like to be poor right now. We have as many colleges. Maybe one of us knows what it's like to be. I had some experience when I had a kid as a student. Regardless of our health, regardless of our aggregate situation, the difference between us is our duty to deal with it. This data that my colleague Pojbič read, I have been spinning all afternoon, and the fact is, if you're watching Slovenia, it's going to stretch more after, somewhere, it's going to say, Eastern cohesion, in which this government has welcomed a little visit after a third of the term. It's just some kind of fact. If we in this country can't seriously deal with environmental protection, with water, if we're not going to deal with poverty because we feel it, then the best thing to do is to turn off the light and not look for a tunnel or a light. In the United Left, we will support this because we believe it is a time to face it, but let us face it not in some extraordinary way by harmonising pensions that will amount to 4 mills, which will basically be 50 cents to one euro, which many pensioners would prefer to rub in our heads, but in some serious way because we have this problem, often we don't even see this problem because it's hidden to people who are poor, it's embarrassing to admit it. Poverty is also huge among young people and is growing to 17. Not to speak among older people, especially single-member households, this is often the case with ladies of older years. There is also widespread violence, especially among the elderly, because I asked the department of the department, and somehow they didn't see it. You get some answers, we got a program up and down there. These are all the things we have that are present in this society, but at the same time we are rich enough to solve these problems. You know, if we go to look at how much money is spent on kleptopathic information in the public administration and public administration sector, if this were cut a little bit, we could solve two-thirds of these issues already with this money. Therefore, in the United Left, we will support this proposal and I hope that this discussion of the principle, if not, will, of course, be, if not otherwise, taken together by the opposition Members and Members of Parliament through their home working bodies. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u276	A self-explanation of the voice, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u277	More of my professional work as a sociologist, I have done research on poverty, even as a guardian I have reported on this issue many times in this National Assembly. The results were usually, always, not just here, everyone who looked at the data took a breath: Right? But the caravan's moving on. Poverty is not just a question of poverty because someone has no food to eat. Poverty affects everything. Once I wrote the article Poverty kills because those who are poor, who live less, health is worse among the poor. There is a ten-year difference between the poor and the rich in life expectancy. Research shows, for example, the issue of inequality, of course, poverty is linked mainly to inequality in society. This is essential because it also measures against the issue of inequality up to half, but this is another topic. For example, there is a great correlation in the United States between countries where inequality is greater and homicides, suicides are linked to poverty, a type of health service. But what Comrade Duck said is, of course, poverty is just so hard to detect. Poverty stigmatizes, people refuse to admit that they are poor, rather show on their own account that they lack nothing because they are ashamed, etc. This is such a complex problem that needs not only to be dealt with once in the National Assembly, but in fact, what I have already said here on behalf of the United Left Group today, the Government should also deal with poverty for its health and everything else. Thank you very much. That is why, of course, I will vote absolutely in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u278	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of Mr Horvat on measures to reduce the structural deficit. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u279	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will support this proposal for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important issue, the issue of the moment or even better the future of Slovenia. It is a matter of structural measures, structural reforms to reduce our structural deficit in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the adopted Fiscal Rule Act. Last but not least, we had a meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances convened by colleague Andrej Šircelj, and at this meeting at least two questions were raised by the Minister of Finance, but unfortunately there were no real answers. The European Commission, in its report on Slovenia 2016, which includes an in-depth review of the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances, including, inter alia, section 2.3, Fiscal sustainability states, I quote, "that Slovenia will have the largest structural deficit in the euro area next year, with unchanged policies, of 2.8% of GDP, with an average euro area of 1.4% of GDP. The structural deficit has actually deteriorated in Slovenia since 2012, while it has steadily improved in the euro area". End of quote. Mr Minister responded to me with some 50+ measures to reduce the budget deficit. But I appreciate him very much, but now I doubt he understands what structural measures are, what structural reforms are. The ones we are talking about, the ones we are talking about, I will say, the right block of the opposition and the European Commission. Is reducing money for municipalities structural measures? Is reducing money for the defence budget a structural measure? Is the deterioration, the budgetary deterioration of family policy a structural measure? The answers to all these three questions are no. Structural measures must increase the competitiveness of this country, we have said today, not only are countries competing with corporations. We have a problem with extremely negative demographic trends, we have a case and in Slovenia the concept of pension fraud. We should discuss these issues, and it is therefore appropriate for this arena to open up all the questions and, of course, to try to give answers as well, so to look for structural measures, now is the right time, not to wait for the electoral year, now is the time to take structural measures. Some will be ugly, but in the future, everyone in Slovenia will be better. But it looks like this country, this government doesn't have any [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u280	Procedurally, Dr. Franc Duck
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u281	Thank you for your word, chairman. Our Rules of Procedure are also partially unconstitutional because the Constitution states that the Member is not bound by any instructions, but at the same time the Rules of Procedure do not refer to any personal obstruction of the Member. I will obstruct the continuation of this session because I am literally going to vomit because this coalition does not see poverty in Slovenia and does not want to deal with it. Good evening, bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u282	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour and 46 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mrs Eva Irgl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Pavlovalska, to Mrs Eva Irgl's question on creating a competitive and stimulating business environment. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Breznik, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision:The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance. Dušana Mramor on Mr Franz Breznik's question on tax bills. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 43. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Ljudmila Novak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision:The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture Mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovalska on Mrs Ludmile Novak's question on the status of Sečovlje salt. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 45. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mr Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of mags. Andrej Širclj on the impact of the structural deficit on public finances. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u283	Thank you very much. We have adopted a constitutional solution to the deficit, we have adopted the Fiscal Rule Act. The coalition is not able to confirm the members of the fiscal council, on the other hand there is fiscal policy, budgetary policy in a completely different direction than this coalition has committed itself to going. Structural deficits are increasing, resulting in problems in public finances and, on the other hand, increasingly in debt. In view of this, I believe that it is necessary to hold a debate and to adopt conclusions on how the state will reduce the structural deficit and how it will reverse the direction of development of this country, especially because it is easy to take measures to make public finances healthier, that coalition does not, in fact, have no action by the Government. This is what the European Commission reminds us of, and this is what the Eurogroup reminds us of. In fact, we are becoming patients in Europe with regard to public finances, these are the words of the European Commission, not my word, which is why the Commission has also adopted two decisions in this regard. The first conclusion was that the situation is such that the economic and financial situation of the State is deteriorating and that this government does not guarantee the achievement of the structural deficit targets and compliance with the fiscal rule as well as the commitments made by the Government to the European Commission and other international institutions. The Commission calls on the Government to adopt such a fiscal policy, which will be in line with the fiscal rule enshrined in the Constitution, in the Fiscal Rule Act and to change the direction of development. For this reason, I think that the debate on what to do, how to do, what structural measures will be necessary for the country, what is necessary for the fiscal situation, is indeed necessary for the financial and economic situation of the country. Because now that this coalition doesn't want to look the truth in the eyes, it just means putting problems, problems, if you want, into the future, when they're even worse. For this reason, of course, I propose that this be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u284	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 46. (For the vote was 18.)(against 46.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič at Violet Tomić's question on stigmatization and incrimination of cannabis users. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 7 votes in favour, 57 votes in favour. (For the vote was 7.)(against 57.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Dimic's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Dark to Mrs Ive Dimic's question on the procedures for obtaining a uniform residence and work permit. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u285	Thank you very much, President. The question of dispatch was, of course, linked to the issue of a single residence and work permit, which has been issued since 1 January 2015. One part of the question was answered by the Minister. On the other hand, I have not received an answer to the question, namely, what shortcomings have been identified in the issue and who controls it and how and what is being done. What is most important is that I have not received an answer to the question or to my question, which comes from a meeting of the Labour Committee: How many companies in Slovenia employ people through employment agencies? If we want to prevent criminal offences, because man's abuse and slavery is a crime, we need to establish at the same time as we have established a single work and residence permit mechanism, also a system to know which Slovenian companies are employing through these employment agencies. If we want to run things together, it is also easier for the inspectors to know which companies are under scrutiny without wandering from one company to another. Of course, then, we cannot save those exploited workers where they live in uninhabitable circumstances. I think it is necessary and again I want an answer, how many Slovenian companies employ people through employment agencies. To conclude, not only are workers from third countries but also our Slovenian citizens here. And I think we owe it to them, too, to give a kind of voice to all together, and to hold a debate to this end, and to begin to resolve matters, and in particular to solve abuses, exploitation and slavery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u286	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 43. (For the vote was 19.)(against 43.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Zvonk Lah, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Agriculture and Food of Mags. On Mr Zvonk Lah's question on the purchase of milk in Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u287	I asked the Minister of the Jews what the Ministry had done in four years when the dairy workers were warned about what would happen after the milk quotas were abolished. Now the minister accuses the cooperatives of what they did, which in most cases they buy or sell milk to a farmer, he could not answer. But we all know that Europe is full, all the warehouses are full of milk, all the warehouses are full of dairy products, so they don't have anywhere else to go. The buying-in prices are falling dramatically, they are no longer reaching their own prices, and there will be a major problem. I asked the minister what the government had done or the ministry during that period, but nothing. I therefore propose that this be discussed because dairy production represents 15% of all agriculture in Slovenia. Many farmers will face the fact that they will have to stop farming, but we do not know what will happen to this milk. This effort by the Ministry to sell milk to China and elsewhere in the Far East, I think it is barren because other countries in Europe, which have significantly better conditions for milk production, have a lot higher and will be able to sell rather than Slovenia. In Slovenia, of course, we sold dairy shops, bought newspapers, and now we don't know where with milk. The cooperatives are now simply to blame for what will happen to milk, not the ministry, which has been granting concessions for new stables over the past four years, for increasing the production of milk, but the minister knew well that the crisis would come and that it is necessary to act differently. I therefore propose that we vote that a thorough debate be held here, because in time we will be witnessing a disaster in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u288	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, to the question of mag. Mark Pogačnik regarding amendments to the Medical Act. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 43. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question of the question by Ljub Žnidar on anti-group fences. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I asked the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Peter Gasperšić the following question: What are the effects of the anti-group fences placed on the motorway sections of Celje-Dramlje and Celje-Arja Vas and what will be the dynamics of the continuation of anti-group fences over the next two years? The answer was not complete, but the question concerns the competence covered by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. But we do know that he is an operative contractor, Dars, who is also the manager of the highway program. If I start with public procurement, there is a typical case here that in the legislative field of public procurement we do absolutely nothing to protect the domestic economy, because a foreign contractor has been chosen, which is, of course, in these times, I would say, a little strange. Absolute over-the-counter criteria shall be set, both with references and with the scope of the works. In my opinion, the concrete block, which was confined to these anti-group fences, is capable of building or concreteing every construction site in Slovenia. However, the built anti-group fences do not meet the required sound insulation criteria. Here a new question is asked, there is no answer to what will be the recovery, and there is also no answer to what will be the consequences of the unquality work done. This project for the construction and construction of anti-group fences was built by European means. In the absence of criteria and standards and requests, the question is also raised as to whether these European funds will be compromised. In the wake of all these uncertainties, I propose that a public debate be held, because of course it is a broader public issue and a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u290	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour and 43 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Culture mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar at Violeta Tomić's question on the financial situation of the Association of Slovenian Literature Translators. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 20 votes in favour and 46 votes in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Daniel Krivac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irene Majcen, to Mr Daniel Krivec's question on the provision of anti-floating security. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u291	Thank you for your word. Mr President, it is true that, according to the Minister's responses, which were somewhat strange, I propose that the State Assembly hold a debate on these answers. Given that we have talked a lot about flood safety at the beginning of the mandate and even all the time, we have also talked a lot about the adoption of the budget in this National Assembly, the Minister's responses have actually surprised me very much. I had some very specific questions about the concession contracts, how much work has been done this year, because we all know that in winter time many such works must be done before spring rains come. And the secretary's answers were really amazing. She admitted that only 1.5 million were foreseen for concessionaire contracts in this year's budget, with 8 million last year. She also said, quote: "It is true, in the budget itself, that more financial resources than you have stated are not, but it is true that we will also provide more resources in this year by dynamic operations or by dynamic provision of these funds for the performance of the public compulsory economic service's tasks." Whoever understands that should explain himself. Regarding concessions, she replied: "Private concessionaires who have concessions to carry out these tasks are signed, contracts are signed." I quote, "Actually, the annexes to the contracts will be signed in the coming months." Whoever understands this, I congratulate him. These were the Minister's responses regarding the implementation of the public service on the watercourses. On the one hand, it says that contracts are signed, in the same sentence it says that an annex will be signed in the coming months. When I was checking the ground, no one had started any parts to ensure flood safety on the watercourses. The National Assembly has devoted a great deal of time to this particular issue, and I believe that you, too, are in some way concerned by the Minister's answers. Maybe one more answer, she doesn't even know how much money she has available this year, that was the answer. I am really worried about this way, given that for the first time in this mandate the budget was adopted both for 2016 and 2017 long before last November, and that the Minister has replied that she does not know by what means she can operate on such an important and concrete task as protecting watercourses or flood safety, I find it disturbing. You all remember the assurances in the budget debates about 100 million funds to be invested in improving flood safety in all these areas. In view of such answers, I really expect you to support this debate and to find out what the actual situation is in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u292	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jana Mahnič, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Andreja Katič to Mr Jana Mahnič's question on the shooting down of the helicopter over the Rožna valley. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u293	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! This year it is 25 years since Slovenia's independence, and it is also 25 years since the war for Slovenia, but it seems that we will not celebrate together. Many military affairs have already been committed in the past in this country, all in all, against then-Defense Minister Janez Janša. I think it's been the fourth time this helicopter shot down over the Pink Valley. Just today he was at the hearing before Judge Daso Cener, the judge who protects and protects those who have made a bank hole, at the hearing Brigadier Tone Krković, who has explained this case three times by now, has been dismissed three times. And just now that we're celebrating this 25. Anniversary, they've reopened this story. Interestingly, there were more than 10 victims in the war for Slovenia, but no other story opens up, and this helicopter is the only one that ever opens up. The question of Tony Dwarf, this helicopter pilot who had to die at the time, is being raised. Interestingly, the enemy helicopter, the Yugoslav People’s Army’s helicopter, now counted among the territorialists, is counted among those who gave their lives in the war for Slovenia. This casts a shadow on all the other veterans who fought the Yugoslav People's Army. There is no document anywhere that Mr. Mrlak would like to move on to the side of the Territorial Defence, let alone move on to the side of the Territorial Defence, because he never crossed over, that's when the rumors started. It is high time that after 25 years this story is concluded that this helicopter stops mutilating key invaders because someone who shot down an enemy aggressor army helicopter deserves more recognition than an accusation. We will therefore support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u294	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u295	President, thank you very much. In the United Left, we will also support the proposal to discuss the events that led to the shooting down of a helicopter piloted by Anton Mrlak if I quote "The Most Tragedy Victims of War" if I quote the then Minister of Information Jelko Kacin. We are convinced that the public deserves more accurate information about what happened at the time. Of course, not because of the arguments in the question of the Member State, but because of the opposite. Unfortunately, for a quarter of a century, he has been trying to conceal certain facts about the role of the Dark One, trying to expose him to his aggressor, to his relatives, and especially to his wife, and not least to the courts, pressure is being exerted. Such pressure, as we know from another court case, has today been exerted before the courts by some individuals and groups. And also the content of the question of the mission, which is full of falsehoods and deceptions, can be described as some kind of pressure. And the minister's answer is pishmeuhous and unilateral. The minister promises to help Brigadier Krković and forgets that Anton Mrlak also has the status of war victim for Slovenia. Will the Ministry help both of you, as promised by the Minister? On this issue, the Ministry of Defence issued a decision years ago, which states that, I quote, "it was Anton Mrlak who lost his life in the war for Slovenia, in a status which, with regard to legal consequences, is equal to the status of a member of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia." In the United Left, we are convinced that all outstanding questions from a quarter of a century ago need to be clarified that there will be no later readings about the re-circulation of history, I quote, as said by Ambassador Jan Mahnic. And what can be more clear than the court’s finding? But the Slovenian institutions, which could find out the actual state of the unfortunate day when the rocket hit a tail helicopter carrying bread, when it was already moving away from the buildings that it was supposed to attack, did nothing in a quarter of a century, but only pretended, mutilated the Dark and people who demanded the truth were accusing the fabrication of history. Since the debate in the National Assembly would be an excellent opportunity to clear up doubts once and for all, whatever this truth may be, we will vote in favour of the debate in the United Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u296	Explanation of vote, first at the level of the parliamentary groups No. [[…]] Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u297	Thank you. I will support this request, if not another, because he will be happy to read the documents that Mr Hanžek will bring me, which will confirm the fact that Mr Darkak was a member of the Territorial Defence or that he worked for the Slovenian side. Good luck finding documents like that because there are no such documents. If they were, someone would have brought them to the table in 25 years to confirm that they would then overlay Mr Krkovich, Mr Janša, so that these documents do not exist, but if they exist, I would like to see them, but not like those forged in the Depala village case. I will also support this matter precisely because I want this matter to be cleared up, and because I believe it is impossible for someone who shoots a helicopter to know whether it is carrying bread or transporting first aid or whatever it is carrying. It was a helicopter, a helicopter that wasn't known whether it was armed or not. It was a Yugoslav People's Army helicopter flying over a restricted area, and the shooting was more than justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u298	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u299	Thank you for your word. Look, you can imagine a story in Nazi Germany. And that someone in the Democratic Republic of Germany 25 years after the break of Nazism, after victory over Nazism, would try to initiate a trial under Nazi law. The whole world would say they're crazy and something like this is happening in Slovenia. Tonet Krkovic is preparing a trial, following what is now under way, by law, the criminal code of the SFRJ, socialism. Socialism and Nazism are exactly two faces of one and the same totalitarian evil, both based on Marxism, the Nazis, if you don't know it, learned in Russia to work concentration camps in the gulags and together celebrated the first two years of war, all joint victories and together supported a democratic Europe and killed people. That is why this conflict was so terrible in World War II. Thank God Hitler was so mad that he then attacked Russia, the Soviet Union and thus broke this connection, which was in fact natural because it was two faces of the same evil, both based on Marxism. But this is happening today in Slovenia and it is happening at the 25th anniversary of Slovenian independence and now let someone convince me that it is a coincidence. It is about trying to defile Slovenian independence over and over again, so that it does not raise the question of where those of us who met with the officers of Kosovo on the eve of even Slovenian independence met with the officers of Kosovo, and how, after JLA had crushed Demos and then the authorities, they would help restore the SFRJ. And they counted because Slovenia won. And no one will spoil that victory.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u300	Procedurally Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u301	Thank you very much. This debate by Mr Grimes was precisely that, that is, the debate and not the explanation of vote. Because there is probably no room for guidance in the explanation of the voice, but the Fascists have been learning their trades, even if it lacks some current context, such as the fact that in the SDS they learned their trades from fascists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u302	Now here's the thing. We're back in the same situation as we were this morning. Ideological speech again on the explanation that touches on the question of shooting down a helicopter over the Pink Valley. Please, let's stop this. Explanation of the vote in its own name Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u303	Thank you very much, President. I will not vote on the debate on the parliamentary issue because I would know everything, then I should not have to ask questions, because I know everything anyway. I will support this debate in particular for the sake of clarifying between one, the other and the third truth, of which we all claim that my truth is right, to determine definitively what happened, whether Toni Mrlak had spoken earlier with the Slovenian government ministers to approach, and they told him to wait, because he was planning to bring three Yugoslav military helicopters here, whether the helicopter had already withdrawn more than a thousand metres away and was hit in the tail and so on. These are all things that need to be cleared up. I'm not saying it's true that he was hit in the tail when he was already moving away from the buildings he was supposed to attack. But I'd like to see the papers. There are documents. There's a book that's so thick, I'm afraid I have it up in my office, and I forgot to bring it, where there's a bunch of documents that talk about it, even official documents. Perhaps the Ministry of Defence and the court would not have granted him the status granted to him and would have granted the widows and children pension and compensation, and so on, if that had not been true. But he will vote in favour, I say again, because, in fact, in the National Assembly, he will clear up the content once, and whatever it was, as I have already said on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u304	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u305	Thank you, Mr. President. To avoid similar situations as has now been the case in the debate of the distinguished colleague Hanžk. A little knowledge of the Rules of Procedure doesn't hurt. The decision concerns a debate in the National Assembly on the reply of the Minister, Minister to the question sent specifically by Mr Jana Mahnič. Not what Mr. Hanžek now wanted and predicted. Mr President, please, I know you are interpreting the rules of procedure, but I have come to the attention of the next meetings and until the end of my term of office to avoid similar unpleasant situations.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u306	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u307	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against it because I think it would be good for the court to play its role and present the evidence, written and, of course, oral, if they are and are supposed to be, so that they can figure out what it is. That is why, of course, we have commission of inquiry in the National Assembly, so I will oppose this discussion. However, as for the various misinformation, I regret to say this, it has nothing to do with self-reliance or dirt, it has nothing to do with the defamation of the Territorial Defence as a whole, which some would like to show, because it is a show here in the National Assembly, so of course I am against that way. However, I must ask only one question to the gentlemen who are advocating that they know everything when they are not yet born. Then why did they build a monument to Tony the Dark in the Pink Valley, if it's all what you used to explain? But the one about the SFRJ law, of course, was, at least as I read from the newspapers, that's what I saw, because the SFRJ law is more favourable if anything happens than the new law. So, of course, and of course, all the demagogies through newspapers are triggered by the fact that this is SFRJ legislation, of course, is totally out of order and the court has decided or thought as it is. Of course, we don't know the decision yet. Well, I'll go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-29-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u308	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 21 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
