ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly. I have been informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Violeta Tomić, Mr Andrej Chus, mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. Franc Trček and Dr. Milan Brglez from 10.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 13. Agenda item, this is for a re-decision on the Automobiles Act and 14. On the day-to-day basis, this is for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Rights, together with an introduction to the two requirements of the Council of State. The State Council is at the 23rd extraordinary session of 28. 9. 2016 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before publication on the Law on Complements of the Law on Motor Vehicles and on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Rules. In order to explain both requests, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Bojan Kekc. Here you go, Mr. Kekec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u2	Dear President, distinguished Members and Members, distinguished Minister, welcome! In a few brief words, I would like to explain the position of the State Council on these laws, namely the Motor Vehicles Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act. You have obtained material by reason on the bench, and I'm sure you've also read what the State Council is most upset about this marriage. To introduce, the Council of State voted this veto by a large majority, 23 councillors being vetoed and 6 against veto, which is also one of the better results of the majority support in this mandate. In the course of the debate, the state councillors presented the following matters. The biggest problem of traffic accidents and traffic safety is certainly excessive speed, fatigue, unarmedness, alcohol and other factors. With this law, however, we went to the slowest vehicles that had not yet been registered or had to wear helmets because they drove up to 25 kilometers an hour on bicycle routes. The essence of this law, therefore, is to change the terminology of the bicycle with the auxiliary engine. The Motor Vehicle Act, however, has only four articles, is short. The first paragraph amends Article 31 of the Act, Article 50, Article 3, which is the most important and states that mopeds must not exceed 4 kilowatts after 1 May 2017, where the permanent rated power of the engine does not exceed 4 kilowatts and the design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. By this definition, we believe that this law gradually eliminates the so-called twenty-fives, which many call slowing down. A bicycle with an engine will have to be sent for technical inspection and also secured, and wearing a helmet will also be required. We estimate that this is why a very wide range of citizens bought these vehicles because they were suitable, cheap and there were no additional costs for their use. How much this amount will be, virtually, has not yet been accurately, explicitly stated. The fact is that it could be seen online that insurance companies are counting on this amount to be between €20 and €40, and of course there is a technical review. No one thinks that the vehicles mentioned so far have been used primarily by schoolchildren, including the elderly; and after the adoption of this law, this would mean quite a lot of inconvenience to many people. What do we think will be the result? If these slow and relatively safe vehicles disappear from traffic, it is possible to buy an engine that has a limit of up to 45 kilometres, it will certainly increase the purchase or purchase of these faster vehicles, which cannot be driven along cycling routes, roads, but must be put on the market. Therefore, the question arises to us whether this will really achieve higher standards of transport safety and, crucially, whether transport safety will really increase. Abuses have also been mentioned, and these vehicles, which are usually electronically limited to a speed of 25 kilometres per hour, can be processed and removed, allowing for significantly higher speeds. However, we believe that other methods can be used against these inspiring young innovators, but not that we collectively punish the 40,000 people who adhere to these rules. The police, too, certainly have the means to effectively monitor those who remove the blockades from the engine, allowing higher speeds. The technical checks and registration, in addition to the additional costs, do mean some recording. We will also not eliminate the removal of blockades by means of technical checks, as we know that this blockade can be reintroduced before the technical review. When the engine goes through a technical checkup, it's okay; then the block is removed again. And that's not the kind of thing we think would settle this area. Maybe it's about wearing helmets. These two laws also state that the helmet is then mandatory for all bicycle users and also for these bicycles with a motor of up to 25 kilometers per hour. So far, this limit has been set for up to 14 years, from now it is 18 years old. And the penalty for juvenile offenders paid by parents is as much as € 125. We believe that this may be a somewhat overly restrictive measure. Compared to other countries, it is mandatory to wear helmets in Austria by the age of 12, although in Croatia it is slightly higher, up to 16. Years; the use of helmets is not compulsory in France, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, Hungary and also in the most cycling country, the Netherlands. We believe that it would be far more effective to invest more money in cycling infrastructure, in quality cycling routes, even in prevention, education activities in this area, perhaps also to grant any tax relief to these safety-enhancing props; and also to those successful municipalities that have good bicycle safety programmes, more resources. On the basis of this brief explanation, let me say that we in the Council of State have been of the opinion that the law is not suitable for adoption or that we have returned the law to the National Assembly for re-examination; and thus the possibility of a better law being drawn up, which would indeed solve all the problems in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much to the representative of the State Council, Mr. Bojan Kekc. The request was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and Space as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, President. Mr. Rance, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u4	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, nice greeting to you too! Good greetings also to the Members of the Assembly and Members of the Assembly! I will present the report of the Infrastructure Committee, as Vice-President and not President, to correct the Chairman. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 42nd emergency meeting. Ten. 2016 as a parent working body considered the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on the Supplementation of the Law on Motor Vehicles; and the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Rules submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with their first-signed colleague, Igor Zorčič, and adopted by the National Assembly at its 22nd session. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The request of the Council of State was presented to the members and members by Councillor Bojan Kekec, who, like today, presented the main reasons why the Council of State opposes both laws and proposes to the National Assembly that it decide again on them. Members Igor Zorčič also presented their position on behalf of the proposer of both laws and Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, on behalf of the Government, who raised their arguments in support of the proposed solutions in both laws or rejected the findings of the request of the State Council. The representative of the proposer and the representative of the Government will present the above arguments themselves in the course of this meeting. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Public Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, Igor Velov, expressed support for both laws, as they believe they will help to increase the safety of all participants in transport. He stressed that by introducing technical checks, registration and insurance, compensation liability, which is not currently regulated, is being regulated. In this regard, he pointed out that a number of warnings were received from injured persons who were injured in a traffic accident by moped drivers whose maximum design speed was not more than 25 kilometres per hour; however, the driver escaped from the scene of the accident and could not be traced because the vehicle was not marked with a license plate. In particular, he expressed his support for the decisions governing the wearing of helmets. In this regard, it is recalled that a number of international studies show that the likelihood of head injury or fatal accident is reduced by 60-70 %. The opinion on the request of the Council of State also examined, in accordance with its competences, the Legislative and Legal Service, which pointed out that the State Council’s arguments relate to issues related to the assessment of the substantive suitability of legislation. The questions thus identified go beyond the scope of their tasks set out in Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and have therefore not been defined until the reasons given by the Council of State. In the debate, opposition Members expressed support for the request of the Council of State and relied in particular on their findings in their discussions. They pointed out that, in their opinion, the definition of vehicles is not already clear in the laws and that, as a result, it will not be possible to distinguish between bicycles with auxiliary motors and mopeds. In particular, they objected to the regulation providing for registration and technical checks, the insurance of mopeds whose maximum design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, as it will constitute additional financial and other obligations for owners. They felt that the introduction of technical checks would not prevent the abuse that some owners use when removing roadblocks from mopeds and raising the maximum speed significantly higher, sometimes up to 80 kilometres per hour. As at the second reading of the amendments to the laws on the labour market, the opinion was expressed that more appropriate solutions would have been envisaged by the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, which was put into the legislative process by the New Slovenia Group this April. It provided for the conclusion of a compulsory basic insurance on the basis of which liability would be covered in the event of an accident. However, the proposal did not provide for the technical review and registration of these vehicles, but merely for the use of an identification plate. These would be issued by the competent administrative authority to the owner on the basis of the concluded purchase contract and the vehicle would enter into the registration of the bicycles with the auxiliary engine. Such arrangements would, in their view, significantly reduce the financial burden on owners, but still allow them to be identified in transport, which in particular has proved to be necessary in practice. With regard to the provisions on compulsory use of helmets, they expressed a greater preference for the solution whereby the driver and the passenger on the bike of the engine, whose maximum design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, would have to use the protective helmet until the age of eighteen. With regard to the opinions expressed by the Members of the position, the proposal stressed that the technical review would not, indeed, prevent abuse in its entirety. The owners of these vehicles often remove roadblocks that prevent the achievement of significantly higher speeds. Such processing in some cases allows for even speeds of up to 80 kilometres per hour. He expressed his conviction that this is why the technical inspection is all the more meaningful, since for such a processed vehicle that can reach up to 80 kilometres per hour, technical integrity is all the more important. In this respect, this would help to increase the safety of the driver and other road users; a similar positive effect would also present the mandatory use of helmets for drivers and passengers on these vehicles. With regard to the proposal to introduce only an identification plate instead of a technical examination and registration, he stressed that the current system does not know the concept of identification on the basis of which an identification plate could be issued; it is only possible to identify the vehicle on the basis of registration. He pointed out that the introduction of a new type of registration or identification would also constitute the necessity of carrying out different additional administrative procedures that would further prolong the time taken to put this system into practice. With regard to the assessment by opponents of the law that, in addition to the costs of the technical review and registration of the significant burden on certain owners of these vehicles, it will also represent a distance to workshops carrying out technical checks, and it has been recalled that the competent ministry has repeatedly stressed that the technical inspections of these vehicles will also be possible on the ground; in a similar way as is already being done for tractors. The Ministry also committed itself to reducing the prescribed frequency and frequency of technical inspections. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by 9 votes to 5 with a majority of all members: The Motor Vehicle Act is appropriate. The Committee then adopted the following opinion with 10 votes in favour and 5 against, i.e. also with a majority of the votes of all members: the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act is appropriate. If I take a few thoughts on the debate that was heard today and also in the State Council, some comparisons with sport, including with athletes, we have also talked more today about some result; but I stress that this is a Parliament and we have to act in some way responsible. I think that in its debate, the Committee has directed exactly this as a proper solution, as the responsible action of the Committee, members of the Committee. All the debates that attempt to make this law unnecessary have in some way shown that this solution will increase traffic safety. Every life that will be saved by this law means a lot; therefore, in some ways, I think that this law deserves support in our Parliament and the responsible attitude of Parliament towards transport safety, especially to the youngest, especially children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Rance. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, the representative of the proposed law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u6	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Motor Vehicle Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act. If we have spoken in the preceding stages of the adoption of these laws about the fact that they are very interconnected, I can say today that somehow each of them is very important for the achievement of the objective that we have set ourselves, namely to increase some safety in traffic, to increase traceability in cases of offences, to provide criminal services in cases where there are some circumstances of traffic accidents where compensation is needed for the injured. In Slovenia, the National Assembly adopted a Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme 2013-2022 in 2013. One of the objectives set out in this resolution is the so-called Vision Nothing. The vision means nothing to the victims of death and nothing to the victims of traffic accidents in Slovenia. I quote from the resolution: 'The vision is nothing but a positive and responsible relationship between the creators and participants of the road transport system, who are obliged to prevent the worst consequences of traffic accidents through their entire operation and behaviour and to ensure a secure long-term goal: nothing dead or badly damaged by traffic accidents. From a moral point of view, this is the only possible long-term objective of all human societies and as such a clear and understandable objective of all the participating creators and road users. The vision therefore requires a change in the thinking and behaviour of system designers, operators and transport participants. With a vision, the responsibility for creating a secure system is transferred to every co-creator and user of roads, as such becoming a vehicle of humane and political concern for greater road safety throughout the European Union. The vision obliges state authorities and organisations, authorities of self-government local communities, professional institutions, civil society organisations and individuals to direct all their decisions and actions towards its realization." However, the traffic system is adapted and designed to prevent people from dying and harming themselves. It is precisely with the aim of achieving these objectives and in order to achieve better transport safety that we have proposed two laws. The Motor Vehicle Act lays down the obligation to register mopeds whose permanent rated power of the engine does not exceed 4 kilowatts and the structurally defined speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. As far as the representative of the Council of State heard, the law was to be disputed because the definitions were unclear. With regard to the Motor Vehicle Act, I can say that there is no specific definition here and that the law is perfectly clear. I think this is also evident from the response we were able to detect in the media, on social networks and so on. In short, there is no doubt that these mopeds have a limited design speed of up to 25 kilometres per hour and are subject to registration. As regards the State Council's observation that it is a matter of some kind of financial burden on the owners of such vehicles, I can say that we have not specifically defined in this law because in the draft text and in the adopted text we have gone in the direction of the regulation in the way that it applies to those slightly stronger vehicles that drive up to 45 kilometres per hour. As far as changing the terminology of the bicycle with the auxiliary engine is concerned, even though this refers to the next law to which I will specifically define myself, it is true that we have not changed these bicycles in terminology. The only terminology we've changed in law is the terminology or definition of the bicycle that we've updated. This means that the bike is no longer just a bicycle, if you want; it is also one that has an electric motor with a power of up to 250 watts and which is defined in accordance with modern European trends, which also has been adapted by the manufacturers of these vehicles years ago. The Road Traffic Rules Act lays down the obligation to wear helmets for so-called twenty-fives; each user will be able to choose – cycling or motorcycle. The obligation of helmet is set until the age of eighteen for bicycles, for ordinary bicycles, for all minors. As has already been said, a new definition also means that cyclists will be obliged to wear helmets on electric motor vehicles up to 250 watts. The resolution, which I mentioned earlier, shows that the main objective is to reduce the number of fatalities and serious injuries among cyclists by 50% or in 2022 to no more than 7 bikers and that there must be no more than 74 seriously injured. And if we ask ourselves if riding bicycles and these 25s is really that innocent, statistics show that 14 bikers died on our roads last year, in 2014 - 13 and in 2013 - 20 bikers. It's about traffic participants who are at risk. Data show that the most common type of road accident involving a cyclist is a side collision in 28%, and in fatal cases a side collision in 45% and a frontal collision in 25%. It is worth noting that in 2015 thousands of 353 bikers were involved in traffic accidents, 14 of which were killed, as I mentioned; 216 were severely injured and 969 were injured. The proposals of both laws therefore follow the objectives of the resolution I have mentioned. In the National Assembly, we will also consider the report on the implementation of that resolution, which we have received 7. Seven. 2016 and from which it follows that the objectives set out in the resolution have not yet been achieved. Efforts under this law are also an important step to reduce the number of deaths and the number of severely injured road users using bicycles and these 25-year-olds. Let me also mention that this area of twenty-five, which is much mentioned, is not regulated, these vehicles do not need to be registered; even more, we do not drive these vehicles anywhere, in no records nor in this statistics. As far as I know, they were injured, severely injured, and died counting on bikers' statistics, so we don't even have a proper view here. Each operation by how safe or dangerous it is to drive with twenty-five is to speak in mind. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we make this effort to set out by means of a minimum amendment to the law what this resolution requires of us, to move forward with time and to set out the obligation to use helmets for minors, to set up twenty-five for all users, and to also regulate the area of grey fox in transport, this is the area of twenty-five who drive unregistered and unprotected on our roads. Let me mention that such a step will contribute to greater security, greater legal certainty and also property security when we are talking about insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Zorcich. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the presentation of the opinion, Dr Petr Gasperšić, Minister of Infrastructure. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u8	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today, for the third time in this esteemed congregation, we have been discussing the subject of helmets, moped registrations up to 25 kilometers per hour, and bicycles. I think that all these debates so far have undoubtedly shown that we all agree that this area has to be regulated in some way. I think that the kindness of the regulation so far, where we were very liberal and did not have to register these mopeds or after the legislation of the bikes with the engine going up to 25 kilometers per hour, that they did not need to be used for helmets. Due to the kindness of the arrangements we have so far, things in this area have been lost in practice. I think that we can all see that, because of this kindness, there has been a very large import of these mopeds; very many of these mopeds do not meet these requirements which the law provides for them to be. As a result, road users then drive these mopeds without helmets above the prescribed speed, which is an additional threat to themselves and other road users. We know that these mopeds are used to ride on bicycle paths at too much speed to drive without helmets on the road at too much speed. We have been on this segment or so far we have indeed been some kind of dark fox on the map of Europe. Other countries, including neighbouring countries, have different arrangements, these mopeds have to be registered, these mopeds require the use of helmets. With these proposals, we are trying to resolve these matters, and the government is very supportive. I hope that you will recognize today this necessity of regulation due to greater security of this very vulnerable group of participants, much has already been said about this, so that I would not repeat it, and also because of the better control of these mopeds. Also from all these discussions so far in the National Assembly, in the Committee on Infrastructure and also in the State Council, the veto was in some way to observe and feel that the arrangements for helmets are not subject to any major opposition. It has even been heard that we may be overly condescending in this group when we prescribe a helmet for bikers only up to 18 years of age. There were even voices, why not for everything as we say mopeds, that everyone should have a helmet. Some believe that a helmet should also be prescribed for bicycle riding regardless of age. However, we considered it appropriate to prescribe a helmet obligation under the age of 18 for the safety of minors. Above this age, it is the assessment of each adult whether or not he will use the helmet. Of course, experience teaches us that this helmet is highly recommended for every bicycle ride, either for recreational or for everyday use in the city line. However, the subject matter of the debate and opposition has become a requirement for registration, in particular for the related costs and red tape to be introduced. I must say that the cost of the technical review for these mopeds — this was due to opposition to the technical checks — is €17. Following the current proposal, it is envisaged that the technical examination should be carried out at the time of the first registration. It is predicted that you would be with 1. The 5th of next year started doing this. Then the first next technical review is in four years, followed by two technical examinations at two years and then every year. In discussions that this may be a disproportionate measure, too much of a demanding measure, we also thought at the government or at the ministry that we would take a step to make this request even more wrong; especially because we know that with these mopeds that go up to 25 kilometres per hour, we do not actually transport a large number of kilometres annually. This is a thousand to two thousand kilometers a year. These are not distances that would suggest that this vehicle could not be used at this time. We are prepared to listen to these proposals to further dilute these requirements for technical checks, namely that this is for four years or five years. After discussions at the Ministry, we also estimate that this could actually be done for five years. We will also include this proposal in amendments to the Motor Vehicle Act; these comprehensive, more extensive changes that we are preparing at the Ministry. This change will come to the National Assembly in the first half of 2017. If we support both laws today, I pledge that for the next larger, comprehensive amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act, we will also adapt this requirement for technical checks for mopeds up to 25 kilometres per hour, so that this frequency will then be less frequent; so we will propose for five years. In this way, this cost of the technical review, which is 17 euros, will be divided into five years, which means practically three euros a year, which is really negligible in terms of this cost of the technical review. Of course, the cost of registration of these vehicles remains here, and because the vehicle is registered, it is also included in this system of technical checks and is compulsory, and these insurance costs are therefore cheaper. We can already secure these vehicles on a voluntary basis and, if I am correctly informed, this insurance costs around €55. Once this is mandatory, this insurance cost will decrease accordingly and the insurance cost will move around EUR 30. This insurance can in principle be concluded for several years, so that you will not even have to go to the administrative unit or to the organisation where these registrations are regulated; but you will also be able to handle matters for several years. In this respect, we will also greatly facilitate this bureaucratic area of regulation of registration and insurance obligations. This would also point out that it has also been discussed that the problem with these mopeds is often up to 25 kilometers per hour to reach an organization that conducts technical checks that can be more than ten kilometers away. In this respect, we will propose that such vehicles can also be technically inspected in the field after analogy, as technical inspections are carried out for agricultural machinery or tractors. I'd end it with that. I think that with the proposals of these two laws we are indeed taking an important step forward for the greater transport safety of the most vulnerable road users, as well as for the control of these vehicles. I hope and ask you, Members and Members of Parliament, to renew your support for these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. We begin with the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, on its behalf Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected minister, a state councillor, colleagues and colleagues! At the request of the Council of State, we are now again deciding on two amendments to the laws on road traffic safety for road users, namely the Motor Vehicle Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act. We announced a single support for both proposals in our parliamentary group last time, but in the debate on the position of some of our Members, which means that the law has not received our uniform support. Nevertheless, this time our vote will be united, and we will therefore support both proposals for laws this time. That is how we decided on the basis of the Minister's commitments made on the labour market and today. In fact, the Minister of Infrastructure has made a public commitment that registration of bicycles with auxiliary engines whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour and which, in the event of re-approval of both laws, will be possible for four or, as we have heard today, even for five years. The Ministry will also consider the possibility of registering or carrying out technical inspections of these vehicles on the ground, as is done for tractors. According to our assessment, the ministry has heard this move by taking into account the excessive cost of moped owners and ensuring that operators of technical inspections and registrations are too far away from some villages. The Ministry announced that these solutions would be included in a novelty of both laws to be drawn up at the beginning of the following year. The Minister also gave us the costs of monitoring the registration of such a vehicle. The license plate costs €7 and a technical review of €17 and a bicycle helmet allowed for moped drivers up to 25 kilometres per hour and €10-20. If we divide this total cost into four or even five years, then we see that it is not an excessive amount. However, we cannot oppose the fact that these mopeds must also carry out a technical review in order to increase the safety of the driver and other road users. Of course, we will closely monitor in our parliamentary group whether the Minister will keep his word and address this issue before the start of the new motoristic season. This time, however, we will unitedly support both marriages in our parliamentary group, as I have already announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Both of the laws before us have the basic aim of improving transport safety, regulating the modernity and appropriateness of the definition of bicycles with engines and motorcycles and, above all, finding a way to regulate the area, regardless of generational affiliation, so that we have a safer transport infrastructure and that we will have a safer participation in transport. We Social Democrats have discussed both laws many times, and in certain points, we do not share all views equally within the parliamentary group; neither do we share each other's views or with the proponent of both laws. We agree, however, that it is necessary to follow the example of the trend that is being developed in a large part of the developed countries, that helmets are increasingly understood as a general obligation not only in driving vehicles on electric, motor or pedal drives, but also in cases of use in other sports such as skiing or skating. It is therefore important that we upgrade the safety standard so that we do not reduce it and that we are at the side with the best and that we are moving towards the general use of the safety helmet, because this is the basic basis on which we can build transport safety. In the case of registration, there are several concerns in the Motor Vehicle Act. According to the Minister's announcement that this area will be re-regulated in a more comprehensive law to be introduced into the procedure of the National Assembly in the course of spring, our assessment is that there is no need to confirm this law now, since a more appropriate law will be ready by the time of the new cycle of use of motorcycles and bicycles with engines. In wintertime, however, the use of these vehicles is not very common and common, so we estimate that there is no need to further regulate and create additional legal complications or circumstances within a period of less than six months that would put citizens in two different situations. Social Democrats will support the Road Traffic Rules Act; we will not support the Motor Vehicle Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Scoberne. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The Council of State has brought the amendments to the Road Traffic Rules and Motor Vehicles Act back into the decision-making process of the National Assembly with almost the same arguments, which have also led us to object to the adoption of these two laws in the United Left. As the scope of the auxiliary motor bicycles in road transport is inadequately regulated, we all probably agree. We could have arranged this before summer in such a way as to increase the safety of bicycle drivers with the auxiliary engine as well as other road users who are in contact with them. The law proposed by Nova Slovenija was then supported in the United Left. It may not have been systematic, but after its adoption we might have to amend another law; at least it would have been lifelike. It is clear to all that the law was rejected by the coalition mainly because of political prestige. This is how this coalition works, and in particular its largest government party. The good proposals of the opposition are rejected by one and the same arguments under the pretext that this coalition will regulate systematically, comprehensively and with similar adjectives. This happens after either does not happen or in most cases it is arranged in a way that is even more messy than it used to be. Such an example is also a package of these two laws. After rejecting the previous amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, we were promised in the National Assembly that the problem of bicycles with auxiliary motors with novels of three laws – that is, motor vehicles, road traffic rules and drivers – will be dealt with systematically and comprehensively by the government itself. In the United Left, we feel that the wheel area with the auxiliary engine needs to be better regulated. These wheels have the same appearance as versions that fall into the category of bicycles with a motor, reaching a speed of up to 45 kilometers per hour. In addition, they are generally cheaper and technically separate from performances in the engine category only by having a built-in electronic block that prevents acceleration of more than 25 kilometres per hour. This block can be removed with a minor technical intervention, so that the auxiliary bike can reach speeds much higher than 25 kilometres per hour immediately. With a few additional interventions into the exhaust system and the gears, they can reach speeds of up to 100 kilometers per hour. As regards participation itself, bicycles with auxiliary engines are subject to the same rules as bicycles; they may be driven by minors without being tested for the knowledge of road traffic regulations and without the protection of the safety helmet and without registration plates. Instead of a system-wide and comprehensive bicycle arrangement with an auxiliary engine, after rejecting the previous novel, the coalition has put in a bad, complete and incomplete package of novelties of the Motor Vehicle Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act. This package complicates things needlessly when it defines a bicycle with an auxiliary engine in a way that someone who buys a bike with an auxiliary engine will have to graduate from law before he understands what he's buying. If the thing has an electric motor and a pedal, it's a bike with a motorcycle. If he only owns an electric motor and doesn't have pedals, he's a moped. If it has a petrol engine, whether it has pedals or not, it is also a moped; even if it has a speed limit of 25 kilometres per hour, it is subject to the same rules in road traffic as the auxiliary engine. However, bicycles with auxiliary engines are subject to the same road traffic rules as bicycles. However, mopeds with a speed limit of up to 25 kilometres per hour are subject to specific rules which are the same as those applicable to bicycles; they are the same as those applicable to bicycles with auxiliary engines. The law also regulates the compulsory wearing of a helmet for bicycle drivers, although the opening part of the law does not explain why this is necessary, nor should this be the purpose of this law. If the law were adopted, the helmet would also be mandatory for bicycle drivers until the age of eighteen, which would effectively prevent teenagers from using progressive sustainable mobility projects such as urban bicycle rental. However, with regard to the use of a wheel helmet with an auxiliary engine, it is absurd that the use of a helmet after the age of eighteen would no longer be mandatory for them; it will be mandatory for moped drivers, including those with a speed limit of 25 kilometres per hour. It will also be mandatory for those mopeds that, after a new one, will be separated from the auxiliary engine only in the absence of pedals. How precisely the fact that a bicycle with an electric auxiliary pedal engine reduces head injuries compared to one that does not have a pedal, or it has exactly the same technical capacity, is probably only clear to the proposer. Compulsory registration, not identification, but registration plate will cause discomfort to all residents of the more remote places, which will make engines with speed limits of up to 25 kilometres per hour to register in some cases up to 50 kilometers away, i.e. for two hours in one direction. In the United Left, in the previous amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, we have taken a strong stand for adoption. The current legal regime for the participation of bicycles with auxiliary engines allows chaos in the use of these vehicles in road traffic. Moreover, unfortunately, the proposed solution also brings chaos into the legal system. Due to the political prestige of the coalition, the previous amendment to the law governing this area must have fallen. Instead, we have received a package of two laws, which can, to put it mildly, be called a smoldering; yet another announcement, the promise of Minister Gasperšič, that this will one day be settled. Oh, yeah. Therefore, the novels of the Road Traffic Law and the novelty of the Motor Vehicle Act, which are on the table today, will not be supported in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you, Dr. Vatovec. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u16	Good afternoon, dear fellows and colleagues, distinguished minister! The strange ways in which this policy is based are that this legislation is stupid; and we come to support it. But that's politics. To begin with, let me state the origin of this legislation. On the one hand, Nova Slovenija is concerned to ensure road safety – and then new two laws will come from the modern centre Party Group. Somehow it seems that out of resentment and political prestige, we will be the one to introduce new legislation. And then there are changes that don't have tails or heads and mean extra burden on taxpayers or users of so-called mopeds. Before us will be a new definition of bicycles with auxiliary engines that will now become mopeds and bring their mandatory registration. What registration means, we know. Submission of evidence of the origin and ownership of the vehicle, certificates of conformity, evidence of the completed insurance of the vehicle liability and evidence of the technical integrity of the vehicle. The additional financial burden itself, which, compared to the proposals proposed by Nova Slovenije, will not bring fully added value in terms of greater safety, since owners or drivers of these bicycles will still be able to drive on bicycle paths at a speed of 25 kilometres per hour and above, endanger the safety of pedestrians and other road users. Let us recall, it also claims by the profession that the owners of these bicycles will still be able to re-install the block removed before the technical inspection and thus satisfy the formal review. Then they will immediately remove the blockade and reach a much higher speed than 25 kilometers per hour. It's perfectly simple. Before the colleague brings this moped to the technical inspection, he will re-install the blockade to comply with the rules; then remove this blockade again. Of course, the situation is not solved. Registration of older bikes will not be possible either, as owners no longer have proof of purchase. You have read, colleagues and colleagues, about the proposals of both novels of professional origin – that this is a non-professional victory that does not solve any problem, but does not necessarily mean systemic solutions to this area. Well, here's the real problem. That the bill on road traffic rules is not systematic, you initially told us, New Slovenia, which we have proposed changes to this kind of legislation. However, your two proposals do not improve that either. In the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, the applicant even stated that the Government was in the process of preparing a new driver law, which would also affect the field of bicycles with auxiliary engines or new mopeds. And if it turns out that they will be adopted today in contravention of the Drivers Act, they will change them again; so it was said. Dear colleagues, we are talking about a period of several months. We already know today that these three laws will be at odds with each other, but for all costs today you want to adopt amendments to the Motor Vehicle Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act; despite the fundamental opposition and veto of the State Council, and despite the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, which has made it clear that changing the definition of bicycles with an auxiliary engine and thus their classification as mopeds will only cause confusion. In New Slovenia, once again, we stress that our proposal did not bring registration of bicycles with auxiliary engine and did not mean a greater administrative and financial burden for their owners. But it would mean greater safety and traceability of drivers. The wheels would have only an identification plate on the basis of which the competent authority would identify the owner's name. With regard to the mandatory wearing of a safety helmet, we have also proposed that this would be an obligation for drivers to be under the age of eighteen. Let me briefly summarize at key points that viewers and viewers will know what this new law has brought before this treatment by some coalition groups is considered a fool. What are we gonna get? Nothing but administrative and financial burdens for moped users. We have over 20,000 owners of these vehicles. I have poor 50 euros to register a new bike, poor 30 euros to extend it and 30 euros to sign off. However, the insurance costs of at least 20 euros must be added; depending on where the insurance is to be concluded. So we can say that legislation is being introduced in a way that is convenient for charging the state budget and additional burden on taxpayers. In Novi Slovenija we hope that he will weigh reason, a non-party discipline that in this case brings only senseless additional burdens. Members of the New Slovenia Group will not support the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act because of these additional burdens.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Gardener. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf, Mr Franc Laj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u18	Dear President, Honourable Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. All together a nice greeting and a successful work I wish you! Even today, we will not support these legislative changes in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Why? Since professional arguments do not favour making a significant contribution to road safety, they would certainly contribute to new bureaucratic, administrative and financial burdens for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the real reason why we in the Group of Members are making every effort to ensure that the state is debirocratized as much as possible and that we do not unduly burden citizens with new and new financial burdens, taxes. What can we do most to contribute to road safety? Certainly by responsible conduct in the traffic of each individual, with awareness, prevention, effective police supervision. As we know today, traffic is also controlled by city officials, so we have the possibility of large and effective road traffic control. And as important as possible, with appropriate infrastructure, time-appropriate infrastructure. These are the real solutions, the orientations that should be invested more in the future, in all these things, activities and investments, in order to improve the actual situation in this area as well. All the arguments that say it's hard to prove the crimes to the perpetrators because they're hard to identify are not entirely true. True control has all the legal bases in place so that those violators, a handful that behaves irresponsibly in traffic to be eliminated by the police, can be duly sanctioned. If the vehicle is not technically appropriate, it shall refer them to an emergency technical inspection and the matter shall be resolved. We are even more convinced that these solutions are not good, they are not time-consuming, which in some ways also proves the decision of the State Council and what the Minister of State has said today in the National Assembly. He says it's temporary solutions for the Ministry to prepare systemic, comprehensive solutions. I think it's the right way and that we should wait for these solutions. If these solutions are in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we will also confirm all these good solutions in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. And that's right, so we're here to work for the benefit of citizens and society as a whole. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Ly. The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, on its behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings, distinguished minister; colleagues, colleagues! Today we are again deciding on two laws governing the scope of the so-called mopeds. The Institute of Veta is legitimate, especially because it is of a procrastination nature. This allows some concerns to be reconsidered in order to make an additional argument, raise any additional question, and the National Assembly to re-examine its decision on the basis of all the additional opinions it has received. However, we must be aware that today we are again deciding whether or not we will be safer for road users. At this point, I can say once again that in the Modern Centre Party we support measures that provide higher bike safety standards with engines. We want everyone in politics to follow this objective because the professional public, the police, the Agency for Transport Safety, which the laws bring, has already recognised as good and useful to moped users and also to other road users. Why do we support both laws in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Parties? As registration of mopeds will reduce the number of infringements of the rules of road traffic of moped drivers; and this can be said with certainty. These mopeds will receive an identification number by registration and will be liable as other vehicle drivers. What's most important? In case of infringements, too soon to drive, even in the case of mopeds, the police will be able to track this vehicle on the basis of this identification. Today, no one imagines that a car that is not registered would be on the roads; and it is difficult to understand why moped registrations were not introduced earlier if we know that processed mopeds have reached speeds of up to 80 kilometers per hour. We support the law because after the new mopeds will be secured. In recent years there have been an increasing number of escape accidents, caused by drivers of unregistered 25-cubic scooters. And if the cause runs away, there's no liability in the event of an accident. In addition, it is an important part of juvenile drivers who do not have the money to repair the damage they have caused. It is therefore right to support this solution, which is a step forward in the area of safety in the use of mopeds, because we all imagine that when a moped hits our car, it is better for both of us that it is insured, both for the cause and for the victim. We also support the raising of age with regard to mandatory use of helmets for bikers. The helmet saves lives — is there anything else that needs to be added?Oh, my God! Most of the comments that prompted today's re-decision on both laws were based on the introduction of technical checks, which were supposed to be a new one for the user, according to some over-costs. At this point, the Minister of Infrastructure offered a solution and committed himself to introducing an exception for mopeds and to making the technical review mandatory only every five years. This is also, according to our assessment, a sufficiently compromise solution for the user, which significantly reduces costs. The Minister has also made a public commitment today to technical inspections to be carried out at other locations, so that it will not be necessary to drive to the cities, but as is done for tractors. We will support the proposed solutions in the Modern Centre Party Group, because we know that they can provide better road safety standards, and in the long term we certainly contribute to a higher transport safety culture for all those involved in transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Dolinšek. The last position, namely the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, will be presented by Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Motor Vehicle Act, as well as the Road Traffic Rules Act, we will not support the decision-making process. The proposal regulates the status of the bicycle with the auxiliary engine, does not bring a solution, but imposes additional burden on owners and introduces new administrative procedures. The proposer still insists that a bicycle with an auxiliary engine whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour — if summed up, we are talking about an average speed of 15 kilometres per hour — introduces a technical inspection, registration, and concludes insurance. The law does not bring the solutions that the proposer seeks to present. The question is, why take a bike with an auxiliary engine to a technical inspection if there are no technical faults on these wheels with the auxiliary engine. There's no technical malfunction. Also, according to the accident data we have heard today, the main causes of the side collisions are the lateral collisions, and the lateral collision is not caused by the technical malfunction of the bicycle. In our view, this means that it is completely pointless to drive bicycles for technical inspections. The only thing that needs to be done in bicycles is to oil the chain every now and then, in fact, there are no other faults in these wheels. Nor did the proposer take into account the profession in this area, since the Association of Slovenian Bikers, which are integrated into the Slovenian Cycling Network, made expert proposals. Comparisons from abroad where they state that, in this context, the concept of security is over-exploited in this law. It is clear from their data that Denmark and the Netherlands, with the highest number of bikers, also have at least road accidents with the involved cyclists according to the number of bikers and the number of kilometres transported. It's perfectly logical. The driver in the car is more careful if there are ten bikers on the road than if there is one biker on the road. By such a restrictive approach to these two laws, the proposer shows that cycling and cycling with the auxiliary engine is a dangerous activity. It's a display like it's a dangerous activity. But we're talking about an average speed of 15 kilometers per hour. These two laws will benefit mainly from technical centres and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia; in particular these two segments. Users to whom they are actually supposed to listen as legislators will not benefit from these two proposals, but only from additional financial obligations and additional procedures. We will not, of course, support the proposed proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, even though we have heard today that, according to the Minister's forecast, this proposal is expected to improve in the future. At the same time, we are pleased in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we have also convinced the Ministry, with professional arguments, that it has changed and softened certain conditions in the technical reviews, in the dynamics themselves. The law draws close to such a limit that it is suitable for confirmation, but the law is not yet so good as to be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the next case, if the proposal is acceptable and useful to all users, even in practice, with facts, with a profession, then we will also support it. I'm afraid not this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Žnidar. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will take a re-decision on the laws today in the context of the vote, which will be immediately following the end of item 15 of the agenda. I hereby terminate agenda items 13 and 14. We're moving on to 15. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The State Council is at its 24th extraordinary session 3. Ten. 2016 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before publication on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Milan Lukić. Mr. Lukić, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u24	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly! The State Council of the Republic of Slovenia is at its 24th extraordinary session 3. Ten. 2016, on the basis of the constitutional provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons adopted by this Assembly at its 22nd regular session, adopted a request that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons with the following reasons: The Council notes that the key representatives of the economy in relation to tax changes have been working for months to convince the Government that the tax reform should be decisive, developmental and fair. The Government did not take their arguments into account, referring to public financial consolidation, which allegedly makes it impossible to do more than the proposed one. The facts are different. The country collects as much as €1.3 billion more tax inflows as in 2013, with an average of thousands of euros in gross salaries per year to public employees. There is little to offer to those employed in the economy with tax changes, an average of only EUR 24 this year and around EUR 150 gross next year. Businesses are even further burdened, and even higher taxes take them further into development potential. This is in stark contrast with the interests of local communities and the majority of the population. The additional burden takes the development potential of local entrepreneurs and businesses and reduces the possibility of new jobs. Even more so because such an unbalanced sharing of the effects of economic growth between public servants and the rest of the population reduces the purchasing power of the majority. If the government had prepared a decisive tax reform that would have given more workers in the economy and less public servants, which would be fair, the impact on GDP growth would have been greater due to the dispersal effect on net wages. The higher wages would be paid to the majority of the population, and it is also in the interest of local communities to protect the interests of their electoral base. The government is slightly burdened by tax restructuring on the salaries of employees in the economy. Compared to what he gives to public servants, this is a real nuisance; it provides for a burden on companies with a higher level of corporate tax than legal persons' income. The draft budget for 2017 shows that the new tax will bring EUR 108 million to the budget and not just EUR 60 million, as explained in the justification for the tax hike. The whole tax restructuring will therefore pay the economy only, which is totally contrary to the promises made in the negotiations with the representatives of the economy. For several years, companies have been paying more for the dissemination of bases for the payment of contributions and higher insurance bases, representing more than EUR 100 million per year. Even taking into account last year's income burden, there are still 85 million Euros of additional burdens this year. The Council of State further notes that the amendment of the law is entirely unfounded and does not bring burdens to the economy as promised; but even vice versa, the novelty also entails an additional burden on the economy. Nor have they taken appropriate steps to reduce public spending, which directly affects the sustainability of public finances. According to Eurostat, public consumption in Slovenia is higher than the average consumption in the European Union, taking into account GDP in Slovenia, by up to €620 million. The actual GDP growth in the public sector was 3% in the first five months of 2016, compared with 2.5% in the private sector. This year, the government allocated €100 million for various increases in the public sector, wages, pensions and so on; while the demands of trade unions for the new 300 million for higher wages in the public sector are still being negotiated. Public-sector appetites are speeding up the economy's ability and can soon re-energise a hole in the state treasury. Rather than making the economy more competitive by reducing the burden of employment, investing in development, accelerated investment and increased exports, it is burdened by increasing corporate income tax. It should be noted that the Slovenian economy has achieved high GDP growth, which is beneficial to everyone and not only to them, without political aid, which does not mean that there has been no aid. If we're not able to unload it, at least let's not burden it. The paradox is, however, that the government claims that the proposed tax restructuring makes the economy burdensome. We wonder how the economists do not understand this and reject it plebiscitefully. Maybe one day we'll get an answer to that too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Lukic. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mrs Urska Ban, President of the Committee's report. Mrs. Ban, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 65th emergency meeting. Ten. 2016 as a parent body, considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly at its 22nd meeting. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee was given the request of the State Council, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and the opinion of the Government. Representatives of the State Council, the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings. In the introduction, the rapporteur of the State Council, on behalf of the applicant, explained the request of the State Council for re-decision on the law and presented in detail the key arguments of the State Council for such a decision, which were presented today. Furthermore, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the reasons why the Government considers that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons is appropriate; and stressed that the basic objectives of the Government in the field of tax policy are to ensure continued sustained economic growth and progressive public financial consolidation, which will also be achieved by restructuring the burden of public duties, by reducing administrative barriers and improving the efficiency of the collection of public benefits as basic measures to achieve these objectives. In addition, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that in the request for re-decision, the statements of the State Council relate to issues of a substantive nature to which the service cannot be defined, as they go beyond the scope of the tasks imposed on the Service by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the debate, the opinions of the members and members of the Committee on the adequacy of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons were different. The members of the Committee focused mainly on the level of the tax rate that would be appropriate to achieve the objective presented. Some felt that the proposed increase in the corporate tax rate was appropriate and attached to the Government's opinion; others were of the opinion that the tax rate should be further increased. On the other hand, third opinions were that more attention should be paid to the economy and, on the other hand, the state administration should rationalise, increase tax recovery efficiency and improve the reputation of entrepreneurs and thus gain new investments. During the discussion, the Secretary of State replied to the questions raised and provided further clarifications. Following the discussion, the Committee, with a majority of the votes cast by all members – 13 votes in favour, one against – adopted an opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Urska Ban. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a bill-maker. Mr Christmas, welcome back to Parliament. Your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u28	Dear Presidents, distinguished representatives of the Council of State, Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the request of the Council of State for re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. Initially, it is worth noting that, in order to ensure continued sustained economic growth and gradual fiscal consolidation, it is necessary to prepare and adopt measures aimed at improving the competitiveness of the business environment, which will have a positive impact on economic growth. The first measures already implemented in 2015 and this year were aimed at simplifying tax collection and reducing administrative barriers. A package of measures aimed at tax restructuring was prepared at the beginning of this year on the basis of wide-ranging consultations with key stakeholders and regular public information. Part of this is a proposal for a new law, which will be decided again by Members and Members. One of the main features of the amendment is that it will bring only additional burdens and no burdens to the economy. We therefore reiterate that, from €106 million of the public financial deficit, only about €60 million will be financed from the tax rate raised by this novel, and €46 million will be financed from the increased efficiency of the collection of existing taxes. In doing so, the measures on the workload side will be targeted to the greatest extent to the employees of the economy, as only a few less than a dozen will receive public sector employees. On the other hand, the Government must provide for fiscal consolidation, which is partly ensured by the above-mentioned increase in the nominal corporate tax rate. The financial impact of raising the nominal tax rates in legal persons is, of course, different from dependent on their activities, from company to company, the scope of tax reliefs and other tax accounting items. However, calculations have shown that growth will be sub-proportional, i.e. a nominal increase of two percentage points will on average be around 1.5% of the increase in effective tax rates. If I simplify, it's that tax that's paid in the end in relation to the accounting tax base. The government estimates that raising the nominal rate will not contribute to lowering the competitiveness of Slovenia, nor will it reduce the development potential. This is confirmed by the mentioned indicators of the nominal and effective tax rate and also by the corporate tax revenue indicator, expressed as a percentage of GDP, which will still be significantly below the European Union average for Slovenia. Both key tax incentives remain in force, making it easier to invest in fixed assets and also easier to invest in R & D and other favourable tax measures and non-tax incentives. We can justifiably claim, even on the basis of Umar's autumn forecast, the current interest rates at which both the state and companies are indebted and the credit ratings that Slovenia is showing solid signs of recovery. This confirms that measures and policies have addressed and successfully managed key macroeconomic imbalances in recent years. The measures imposed in the tax area need to be financially neutral in such situations as this; the favourable economic situation must be used to reduce the public financial deficit. It also reflects the adopted budget for 2016. The 2017 and 2018 budgets, under which tax reform is also established, are still development-oriented and tight fiscal constraints. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members, in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we believe that achieving public finance targets requires a combination of fiscal responsibility and the preparation of structural measures, support for carefully selected investments and also measures to increase competitiveness. We therefore propose that you re- back up the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tilna Bozic. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to all on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, where we will vote again in favour of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons, as this is part of the tax restructuring package, which is strongly linked to the adoption of the amendment and the addition of the Income Act. The adoption of the Income Act, of course, means that the lower revenue in the budget will be €106 million, which is being filled by an increase in the tax rate from 17% to 19% in the corporate income tax. If this law had not been re-elected today, we would have re-entered the €106 million budget. We understand the proposalers, following a call for re-decision, primarily in the sense that the economy wants to have control over how funds coming into the integrated budget are being used; and expect that these funds will also be used as effectively as possible, especially at times when the economy needs assistance, as it was during the economic and financial crisis. When we look at the time of the financial and economic crisis, it is also right to recall the period when, while the neoliberal direction of fiscal policy has been very present in the last ten years, the corporate income tax has been reduced from a tax rate of 25% to 17%. As a result, at the time of the financial crisis, we also had less resources available in the budget and, of course, it was also necessary to take measures which were also linked to the debt that we could manage this crisis. Data show that, with economic measures during the financial crisis from 2008 to 2011, we have invested as much as 8.4 billion euros or almost 23% of gross domestic product. All of this was then reflected between 2011 and 2015 in the way that the economy generated EUR 7 billion in surplus in the current balance of payments account, which also proves that our national economy has enough savings to finance the public financial deficit. The relationship between the economy and measures within policy-making and economic policy-making decisions must be very well understood that we can manage difficult situations. The adoption of this law would raise a reopened question of how to fill €106 million. Therefore, this law must be confirmed and taken into account all the serious warnings given by the economy. However, we would also like to stress that this reduces the difference between the burden of capital and labour. We hear a lot about the fact that work is very heavily taxed in Slovenia. However, when we touch on the issue of capital taxation, this issue is returned in a way that must first reduce the burden of work and then consider other measures. This should also be seen in the light of the fact that the European economy on average pays around 22.5% of corporate income taxes. In Slovenia, this percentage has so far been 17%, and even with other tax incentives or investment incentives, this effective rate is even 11%. And here is the difference between taxation of capital and taxation of work, which is somehow decreasing, which is certainly a step in the right direction. And if we add a very responsible approach to this in terms of spending financial resources from the budget, then we can be on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Weber. The position of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! In the United Left today, we will support amendments to the Law on corporate income tax, although we have been maintained in regular treatment. We didn't hold back because we'd be against raising that tax, but because that raise was petty. The raised rate of 19% is still 3.5% below the European average of 22.5%; at the same time, this tax was part of the overall tax package, which, among other things, is the worst 10% of the best paid in that country, including us in this room, has donated a tax gift of 60 million euros. That's why we couldn't support the package. But today, as we say, because we are talking about raising taxes on profits, we will vote in favour, because there is an urgent need for a sufficient majority to vote on the veto that the capital lobby has forced through the State Council. The arguments accompanying the veto were again based on the protection of employees in the private sector against employees in the public sector. This is artificially smouldering and creating a conflict, which instead of argumenting on the swaths of poor suffering economists, capital bearers on the one hand and greedy nurses, teachers, social workers and other public sector employees on the other. In view of the debates, I expect that today, however, we will be able to break through this blockade in the National Assembly and will remain this veto as evidence of the idea of domestic capital bearers. The adoption of this law will make Slovenia's tax system less fair. The capital will quickly repay its debt to the citizens in the tax box. We must not forget that we have spent as much as €5 billion on the rehabilitation of bad loans, and let us not forget that in the coming years we will pay these same economic operators more than €420 million per year in subsidies. In view of the fact that only €612 million of corporate tax will be collected this year, it is clear that the economy, that is to say those who have vetoed, will repay the debt to the company created by the need to rehabilitate banks for at least a quarter of a century. Taxes on legal persons' incomes are therefore a step towards more fairer taxes. Let me illustrate. This year, we will pay the citizens for more than 1.5 billion excise duties and the capital for only EUR 622 million corporate tax. Thus, about 40% of what will go out of the pockets of citizens will go out of the pockets of capital. Thus, the Slovenian tax system is highly unfair because it burdens consumers disproportionately, i.e. all citizens, and less and less income from capital, high income and high property value. This also applies to corporate income tax. In the United Left, we have proposed with the amendment that the rate should rise to 22%, and no parliamentary group has supported this amendment. While some coalition groups talk a lot about the social sense that needs to be enforced, they agree to the dead compromises with capital bearers. We do not support this in the United Left, and once again I stress that the proposed tax is a step forward, but it is still 3.5% below the European average. The European average is 22%, and we managed to agree in the National Assembly to raise from 17% to 19%. This is still a socially unjust tax and our tax system is entirely too willing to collect from the pockets of citizens, and secondly, it looks through the fingers of capital and wealth. I hope that we will be able to accept this minor correction today. As we say in the United Left, we will continue to make our tax system socially just and solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Moon. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister of State, Mr Milan Lukič, distinguished Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! During the first half of the mandate of the government of Dr. Mir Cerar and after two thirds of the effective time of this mandate, we did not see any government measures that would bring a burden on the overburdened Slovenian tax and business environment. However, we have seen a package of three laws that, as a whole, represent the so-called mini-tax reform. Those who took a quick look at these government proposals could also quickly realise that the proposed tax reform is not really reform but merely a tax redistribution or, as we say, a tax translation. You could also say that the government takes from one pocket and puts it in another pocket. The biggest problem, however, is that the government and the coalition are taking it back again and especially from the pockets of Slovenian companies, which represent a rare ray of hope for the future economic development of our country. We must thank the economy and the only economy that we have growth today and that we have new jobs. This was also clearly understood by the state councilors, who made it clear to the government to try to increase the tax burden on the economy. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group of Members, I thank the Christian Democrats for taking the veto on behalf of common sense. The effects of the envisaged validity of the law, which we are deciding on today, appear even before it is in force. The 2017 budget rebalancing already reveals that revenue from the state budget is estimated to be almost €71 million lower than for 2016. On the other hand, revenue from corporate income tax is estimated at 74 million euros in 2017. As quickly as a simple calculation shows us, the budget deficits due to less income from income are simply filled by an increase in corporate income tax, i.e. by the success of our companies. It is, respected citizens, the tax mathematics of the government coalition. These are the real consequences of government tax translation. The fact that more than the entire loss of revenue flows will have to save the economy is unacceptable for New Slovenia. Christian Democrats, however, are required from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare, instead of burdening entrepreneurs, a systematic intervention into the tax system that would leave businesses and citizens with more of their money in their pockets. We are convinced that they, citizens and entrepreneurs, would deal with this money earned much more prudently, rationally and effectively than the state authorities. In New Slovenia, we are very opposed to the idea that every time we need a new source of budget money, we have cut it off for our Slovenian economy, and on the other hand, we always have a good enough budget bag and create the best jobs. As we know in New Slovenia that our companies have a key role to play in the lives of our people, and because we do not want our young people to have to look abroad, we will also vote this time against the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. The word has magic. Mr Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u36	Nice greeting, vice president, ladies and gentlemen! As for the first time in our parliamentary group today, we will not support the law on corporate income tax. Why? Because it's just not the right way. Not because the 19% tax rate would be something unacceptable, but because we have changed this law at least six times in the last ten years, and once again up once, and once again up tax rates, a little bit down. How do people who choose to invest in our country even know what lies ahead? They don't even know what's coming next year, it's three months, let alone a little longer. That's why it's unacceptable. And by the way, in all your documents that you've been sent to Brussels, with respect to the coalition, you've written that you won't. But good, you're making a different decision today. The second fact is that you will hit small businesses or family businesses the most with this change. You'll feel the most change you've made. As if there is no awareness or behaviour that just small, medium, family enterprises create the largest share of economic activity. They employ 70% of the people in the economy, and that's what's gonna hit you the most. You know what these entrepreneurs say? If you can't help us, at least leave us alone. What you are doing is far from tax reform. Now you are talking about tax restructuring yourself, and the fact is, a well-respected coalition that the consolidation of public finances takes you exclusively into three categories. The first is the pensioners. 300 million less from the state pension budget, 300 million less than in 2013. The second is the investments you make as much as 300 million less than you made in 2013. The third is small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be the most hit by this change of date. And let the one who can understand all this. You are absolutely not on the right track, I would like you to find out as soon as possible, because it will continue to be very painful for the country and for people as well. In today’s law, however, there is still room for reflection and for the conclusion that in some way you will make a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Bratusek. Mr Branko Zorman will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u38	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are again deciding on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, which is part of the tax restructuring package, which will be followed by a more favourable tax structure in Slovenia. The bill will mainly raise the corporate income tax rate from the current 17% to 19%. Higher corporate tax revenues of around 55 million will be used to reduce the public financial deficit on the one hand and, on the other hand, to reduce the tax deficit on income relief. However, it should be pointed out that the revenue burden will be much higher than the revenue raised under this heading. The corporate income tax will raise the revenue of the state budget by €55 million, while some taxpayers will have higher net salaries and will fall out of the budget of €106 million. The law should therefore be seen in connection with the measures of the Income Act, which will increase net wages and to a certain extent increase consumption and employment. It should be pointed out, however, that the effective tax rate in 2015 was 11.5% according to the data from the corporate income tax and decreased by more than 6 percentage points according to 2006. The current effective rate of corporate income tax is among the lowest in the European Union, and this is said to be 11.5%. This will now rise to 12.85%, where Slovenia will still be among the lowest in the European Union. The comparison of nominal corporate tax rates in Slovenia at 17% also shows that taxation is significantly lower than the average nominal corporate tax rate in EU Member States, where the tax rate is 22.8% for 2015 and 22.6% for 2016. Among them, it has the highest rate of France for 2016, 38% and the lowest of Bulgaria, that is 10%. 6 countries have a nominal rate of less than 17 % and more than two thirds and 19 countries have a rate of higher than 19 %. The level of Slovenia is now one of the lowest in the EU, 22nd place. With an increase of two percentage points, it will still be among the lowest because Slovenia will share 20th to 22nd place with the Czech Republic and Poland. In fact, it is important to mention that Slovenia collects only 1.4% of GDP in revenue from legal persons on the basis of this indicator at 26th place in the EU. The average income in EU countries for this tax is 2.4% of GDP. Despite the rise in nominal corporate tax rates, the burden of corporate profits remains at a level favourable to the acquisition of new foreign investments. Tax incentives for investment and for research and development remain at the same level as before. It is therefore not expected that the rise in nominal rates would affect investment decisions. In particular, tax reliefs for investment and employment that are higher than general should be mentioned. However, these continue to further reduce corporate taxation in the regions where they apply. It should therefore be pointed out that the Government is following the right direction with the burdens of work which are over-taxed and with the burden of capital which is under-taxed. The tax restructuring package will thus become a more business-friendly environment for the employment of highly qualified personnel. In view of all of this, the SMC Group will once again support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Zorman. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u40	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We will not support the proposed amendment proposed by the coalition, the Party of the Modern Centre, the Social Democrats and Desus, as well as the so-called corporate tax, for 2% of the points, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, as in the third reading. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this step means reducing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. We welcome the decision of the Council of State to veto this proposed law. We believe that the State Council is better than the coalition is aware of the problems that this coalition is starting to face and not least, we would like to stress that the revenue for the 2017 budget will be around €1 billion higher than it was at the end of the 2013 budget account. It is important to be aware that this 1 billion is primarily at the expense of a good part of the economy. Instead of rewarding the economy for a successful job, the coalition and the government of Mira Cerar will receive a reward in terms of additional burdens. We are also convinced that such a change in law will have wider consequences and that an increase in the rate of 2% will also affect all employees. We are convinced that such a step means less competitiveness mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises and consequently for a smaller level of job creation in the future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party of this bill, which will further burden the economy and consequently all employees, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thanks, mag. It's a cakemaker. Last but not least, the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, Honourable Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me begin by saying that the Desus Group will also support the law after the new amendment has been re-decisiond. The recently adopted law is part of a tax reform that would result in additional financial imbalances in the event of a re-vote being rejected. Although this is a distasteful measure, in the Desus Group we are aware that something needs to be done on the revenue side of the state budget in order to be able to talk about a little more resources for important expenditure such as health care, pensions, education and the like. The proposed increase in the level of corporate income tax is minimal in our opinion, especially when compared to the EU average, where Slovenia is currently 22nd, that is, at the bottom. In the Desus Group, we believe that there is no need for an immediate astronomical rise in the tax rate, but that, taking into account public financial policy, this should only be gradually increased. The reasons for this view of our Group are very simple and stem from the practice so far. The savings of companies in the lower profit tax rate were not used to invest in investment, development and new jobs, as expected. On the contrary. Unfortunately, most of the money ended up in private pockets of individuals. As a result, economic growth over the years has not grown in line with the gradual decline in the tax rate. Therefore, the measure did not justify its purpose, which is why in the Desus Group we believe so much more that the proposed increase in the tax rate of 2% makes sense and we will re-support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u43	We are done with the presentation of the position of the parliamentary groups. The re-decision on the law will be carried out in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up the 15th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. Review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers of 18. 10. is published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate T. Vatovec, the assembly will decide on the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Mate T. Vatovac, on the adoption of the CETA Trade-Investment Agreement between the EU and Canada. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 48. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Mrs Dimic, the Committee will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Iva Dimc, on the issue of overcoming rebuttal cases and key measures in the judiciary. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 48. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following a proposal from Member Bojana Dobovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Dr Bojan Dobovšek's question on the letter of intent with Uber. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 47. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the proposal of the Minister for the Interior of Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar, on the question of Mr Branko Grims concerning the number of applicants for international protection and the entry into force of restrictive measures. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 52. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold discussions at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Kolar Celarc to the question of mag. Mr Andrej Širclja in connection with the operation of public health institutions. Mag. Spread out, voice-explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday we had no interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Health and Answers. We have not received any answers on the issue of reduction of waiting types, nor on the business of health institutions. And these two questions are connected. Since there are no answers there is no strategy, there is no vision and, of course, there are no actual measures that would reduce waiting types and improve the operation of waiting waiters Improve the operation of public health institutions. [[…]] For this reason, I propose that, for the benefit of citizens and citizens, that citizens and citizens have better health care, you vote in favour of this proposal to discuss the health system and that the National Assembly, if the Government cannot, does not know, does not want to do so, makes priorities in the health system and adopt measures that will reduce waiting types so that people will have better health care and thus better health and a longer life. I therefore propose that you support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In your own name? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 51. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jožet Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovalska to Jožet Horvat's question on the provision of funds for the implementation of the law on development support to the Pomurski region in the period 2010-2015. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. New Slovenia supports this proposal for a decision. Why? Because we demand that the laws adopted here also be respected to be implemented consistently on two decimals. See, 2009 this assembly adopted a law on development support to the Pomurska region, where it stated that the country will provide €33 million for the programme to increase the competitiveness of the Pomurska region. Since this was not, in a way, understood, the crisis was and it was necessary to save, since this money was not available, it was by the end of the implementation of this law, as originally established, so by the end of 2015 only 22 million of these 33 million were realised. This means that 11 million remains unrealised. This is why last year the National Assembly adopted an extension of this law for this year and 2017, which means that the budgets for 2016 and 2017 should have 11 million but not. Already in budgetary planning, the Government has violated this bill of 1.1 million euros. However, since this year's difficulties in the Ministry, which is the custodian of this law, will result in poor implementation of resources due to administrative complications, it would be necessary to increase the funds in the budget documents by around 3.3 million in 2017. On a total of around 7.5 million. There's no money, there's no money, there's no will, I've had conversations with him, but apparently the finance ministry is the one that's going to say we're going consciously into a violation of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a violation of the law. This means that those who support these budgetary documents will, at the same time or at the same time, support the fact that laws can be violated in this country. And Pomurje has been beaten twice because of this developmental law. Why? Firstly, because he has a marriage and does not get enough money because he has a law, he does not have access to other sources of development funds. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it would be very important and necessary to hold a debate here also on the need to implement laws in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much. There's another explanation for the voice. No, no, no. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mika Kordiš, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšič, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in relation to road advertising. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 51. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following the proposal from Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič to Anja Bah Žibert's question on the provision of conditions for the implementation of the educational process in schools. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman. See, the purpose of this question is not to find the culprit for this situation, but the fact is that we have in Slovenia since 2000 facilities that have not been completed and are carrying out an educational programme. For example, although children have received part of a beautiful modern elementary school, for example, they have to walk a mile and a half away for exercise. Of course, this is not just in one congregation. This is in quite a number of congregations. The problems are different, but something else is missing somewhere else, so I propose a broader debate on what is the situation in these areas and how we could move forward, together. This is the case in Mirna Peca. There are similar examples in Sevnica, such cases are in Gorenje village. Probably every one of you coming from a local community could find an example when we're talking about facilities that are intended for a training programme, but they're either not finished or they're long-term and they're practically dangerous. It is only to discuss these things together and find a way to not sharpen the process, but to speed up the process so that maybe those projects that started first will be the first to end and so on. I'm really asking for your support because this is a broader problem in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 51. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mag. Mateje Vraničar Erman on the question of the Parliamentary question of Ljub Žnidar concerning the covert indebtedness of municipalities in various forms of public-private partnership. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, on behalf of the Group of Members, please choose the definition of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have asked the distinguished Minister of Finance a question concerning the covert indebtedness of municipalities in various forms of public-private partnership. I must say that her response was not in accordance with the Law on the Financing of the Communities on the Area of Community Debt. She said that the responsibility of municipalities through an intermediary, so-called public-private partnership, is the autonomy of the municipality to decide for itself, to care for its financial situation, in short, that this autonomy is completely a matter of the municipality. However, this does not hold true on a legal basis. If I make a short comparison. If the municipality commits itself directly to the bank, the municipality shall require the consent of the Ministry of Finance. However, if the congregation is in charge through an intermediary, it does not need the consent of the Ministry of Finance. With her reply, the minister made a very clear appeal to all other congregations that did not serve, and then you should be obliged by means of an intermediary, and then you do not need any agreement. However, this is not in accordance with the Law on the Financing of the Communities. With this, the state as a ministry loses financial control over the operations of municipalities. That's a fact, and that's going to be a problem in the future. Some examples of certain municipalities that are unable to settle their obligations financially already show that, in fact, the municipalities here are not only able to decide completely independently but that they need to be in charge of their operations or, in particular, over their indebtedness. This will be an ever-increasing problem in the future. We know that the country’s budget has been reduced increasingly to municipalities and that the municipalities will use a variety of ways to obtain credit or debt. I believe that this will be a bigger problem in the future, so I propose that a public debate be held on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? There's no wish. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 52. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following a proposal from Ambassador Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič to the question of Mr Tomaž Lisca on the development of sport infrastructure. Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u52	Vice President, thank you for your word. In the balance sheet of the 2017 budget, the country earmarks EUR 800,000 for sport infrastructure. The same amount is also intended for 2018. In addition, we have a call for the Sport Foundation ahead of us, and in 2017, €170,000 is allocated for sports infrastructure and in 2018, say and write. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the Sport Foundation for the entire sport infrastructure in 2017 and 2018 shall be €3.5 million. The Minister herself said that when at least part of the survey was carried out in the Slovenian municipalities, there was a need of EUR 800 million. However, the fact is that in Slovenia we have a sport infrastructure, which is on average 37 years old, and if there were no calls from the former Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Cernač, who, with the energy reconstruction of sports facilities owned by local communities, at least partially solved this situation, would have been a disaster. We are all proud when we meet Slovenian athletes, we want to congratulate them in the first place, but they are already mostly practicing abroad. Young people, however, do not opt for athletic occupations, for footballers, because they do not even have the basic conditions to realize their young desires in practice. That is why we believe in the SDS Group that we need to talk about what sport infrastructure we want. When we answer this question, we will also see what athletes we have, how well we want them, and not least for every recreational athlete it is necessary to have satisfactory sports infrastructure alongside the sidewalk along the fast roads. We therefore believe that, in support of all those local communities and recreational and top athletes, we should discuss that we want more modern and more people dedicated to sports infrastructure. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. There's no more explanation. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 25 votes against 48. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Home Affairs, Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of Mr. Franz Breznik concerning the location for the exhibition of the asylum home and the migrant accommodation centre. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The security situation in this part of Europe in which we live shows that a new migratory wave is likely to come. The government is somehow, we can say, very untransparent without any contact with the local population looking somehow for centres in environments where people are not convinced, for the first time that they need asylum homes and for the second time, the government to protect our borders and our sovereignty at borders. Above all, the government forces these asylum homes in Črnomelj, Maribor, which I have pointed out to the Minister at the meeting, Dobovo and so on. So where people are against these asylum homes. But there's another option. But there's a whole bunch of people out there who want refugees. As we've seen a few months ago, when they strike in support of the refugees and they want as many of these people as possible. Some of our colleagues were in the front row at the time, now it's time to step in and make your properties available for asylum homes. In Maribor, for example, we had Dr. Vesno Vuk Year professor who put some of these refugees in her extra apartment because she didn't get normal tenants, but now she's asking the country for a high rent. So this is this quasi humanitarianism, quasi solidarity, and now it's time to prove it. Above all, in Ljubljana, where these pro-demonstrations were for refugees, now is the time to measure themselves and to set themselves up precisely in those environments where people essentially want it. This will be one point, I say a transition where we can determine who is for refugees, who is for humanitarianism or false humanitarianism, and we will go from words to action. That is why I think this debate is necessary. It is also necessary for the Ministry of the Interior to make clear in this debate what policy, in particular, protects Slovenian sovereignty at this time of work, fulfils and whether it also works preventively, whether at this time anything more has been done to ensure that such a refugee wave that we witnessed last year will not be repeated. That's why I'm asking you to support me on this subject. I think that in the eyes of the Slovenian public, in view of the fact that there are no more demonstrations, the resistance to local self-government, such a debate needs to be held here in the National Assembly and I also ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I will absolutely support this debate, because I am sure that Slovenians and Slovenians do not need asylum homes, at least in Styria, which is already so extremely poor. But we need what those who live in our country need on the brink of poverty, which is more than 30%. I think our government, coalition and government should take care of these people first. I think our common role is to work on this without imposing asylum homes on people and doing everything that most Slovenes don't want. However, I would like this government and this coalition to work in the interest of our citizens and citizens to make it easier for them to spend their days and to end the month more easily with the end of the month and to at least be able to pay the bills they receive per month. I think this is crucial, and this should be the concern of the Slovenian government and the coalition. There is no doubt here that the Slovenian Democratic Party will do everything in its power to help the government and the coalition to lead things this way, which I have just talked about, to help citizens and citizens, but not to increase poverty in our society. I think that's what's absurd. It is also absurd that we have 220 thousand pensioners living below the poverty line. They need to be taken care of, not imposed on people by asylum homes. If we think that way and do that, then we will do what we were elected to do in the elections. I think the government and the coalition have to think about these things. But what's crucial is that you're not in Maribor and all of these places, as you can see now, they don't want asylum homes, so let's not do that. We care for our people, for the safety of the Slovenian people and our own people. It's our right path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today we have heard quite a few statements at the border, let's say I will not go over the call for racist outbursts, so I am sure that this proposal needs to be accepted. I think the National Assembly needs to talk about this. I could argue a lot with quotes, and I'll stay with just one basic: "The use of some poor people against other poor people." It's like the refugees are guilty of having smaller salaries. Excuse me, it is the fault of those who have led billions into tax havens, those who oppose the increase in profit tax, those who oppose the increase in wages and the increase in pensions. Those should be taken for instance, not refugees and people who flee from the consequences of those world powers that caused the war in the Middle East, those forces that we, which Slovenia has supported, are also. I think these are things that need to be clearly defined in the National Assembly. I therefore call on everyone to support this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u59	/ off microphone/
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I will also support this proposal from my colleague Breznik, because I think it is high time for this national assembly to make it clear that working classes in Slovenia can be solidarity with refugees from the Middle East. Because refugees are not the ones who threaten our social state, refugees are not the ones who threaten Slovenian sovereignty, but have both Slovenian workers and those refugees of the common enemy and a common problem. These are the ruling classes. The ruling classes of Slovenia, the ruling classes in the EU and the ruling classes on the other side of the Atlantic. These people and these networks bombed the country with refugees, and that's why these people are refugees today. And these same people are the ones who cut off Slovenian workers' hard-boiled bread. I think we could address this problem through this debate. I think we could build this human solidarity, no matter what border we're on, and together we could find some solutions for the refugees to be established and then a solidarity political action. It's not for the weak, not the asylum-seekers, not the unemployed, not the poor. It is necessary to store the feathers of the elite — socially, regardless of religion, irrespective of the color of the skin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much. As you know, I've been in the world for a while, just like you guys and my colleagues. And what I've learned is that money doesn't grow up on a tree, so that it doesn't consume wood and fall money on the ground. Of course we're limited to resources. But look, we've given over 100 million euros for the last raid of refugees. Refugees flee to capitalism, respected colleague Kordish and Hanžek, capitalism. Where there are iPads, beemves, where there are Porsches, where there are houses, where there are heat pumps, where there is no environmental damage, ecology and so on. They don't run to socialist countries. They don't run to this socialist paradise of yours. But there will be a new problem for refugees, perhaps even from Venezuela in Slovenia, and they will come to you. Now it's gonna be a serious question. It's extremely serious. You know, as long as we collect in Slovenia, as you repeat after me, the veils for children, which I am the first principles, I am pleased, but for so long I have been chosen to work for the welfare of the Slovenian people and the Slovenian people. As long as we have pensioners with farm pensions of 180 and 190 euros, I am first interested in the problems of our people. We have created and we are obliged to act for our people. Why so much money for asylum homes if our people also need homes? Our people are on the street, too, and so on. But it will also, in the end we can say, one test of those who were full of words that you have been putting out, where you have stood in the front lines to set your wages for refugees, to accept them in your homes and then we can tell you, this will be your test for your humanitarianity. My test for my humanitarianism and my colleagues here, which we are helping Slovenian people with our contributions, including our donations, has been presented several times. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please support this idea of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. In his name, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u64	I will support this debate myself. I think colleagues Hanžek and Kordish made it clear why. Comrade Breznik, the ZUJF, the government where your client was in charge, accepted when there were no refugees, and you took exactly the people you were talking about. Slovenians, as you say, or I would tell the residents and residents of Slovenia, pensioners, those who are on the social side and in fact, you have used this mess to say your finger on refugees. And just to think, if we lived in Aleppo, we bombed your city every hour, we wouldn't be running to capitalism, running to safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 52. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matthew Vraničar Erman on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 50. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jana Mahnič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Boris Koprivnik to the question of Mr Jana Mahnič on the arrival of Uber in Slovenia. Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Youth, our party's minor, we adopted a resolution welcoming the intention of Mr Koprivnik, Minister of Public Administration, when he signed a letter of intent. We believe that this shared or cooperative economy is certainly the future, we must keep pace with time, we must keep pace with development. Just for example, today we have a number of companies that allow the participation of citizens and citizens who can decide freely, and this is what strengthens the free market economy, the free market. We have the largest media house or the largest media medium that doesn't own a single media house, we're talking about Facebook, we have the biggest store, let's say a merchant who doesn't own a single store, we're talking about Alibaba's company, we have the biggest taxi service provider that doesn't own a single car, we're talking about an Uber company, and we have, let's say, the biggest accommodation provider or someone who offers a possibility of staying, but doesn't own a single apartment, doesn't own a single hotel, we're talking about Airbnb. Unfortunately, when the Minister signed this, she also opened a debate with us on what it means, what the collaborative economy is. Some parties, which are mainly linked to the unions, are immediately starting to scare people when unfair competition is coming and it is precisely this unfair competition that needs to be discussed. We already have today, if we take the example of taxis, a totally regulated market in this area, where, for example, a taxi board is legally specified what dimensions must be. No one other than taxi service may or may not provide public transport by law. Uber is the one who makes it possible to use this application to those who want to offer transportation with their property, that is to say their cars, as well as to all citizens and citizens. All you need is a smart phone to upload the app. When I used Uber myself in Germany, in France, let's say the difference for the same route is a taxi that costs 20 euros and Uber costs 7.8 euros. Above all, we need to discuss the extent to which we will go to regulation. I absolutely agree with the need to adopt such grounds that there will be no unfair competition, that taxes will be paid, that everything will be clear on how the vehicle must be technically operational, how the insurance is. We need this debate, if not now, and we will convene a committee meeting because it is right to discuss it. We'll vote in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 54. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda of the October Assembly. We are moving on to the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is to re-decision on the Automobiles Act. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the re-decision under the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to define the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State or both State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we oppose both these novelties of the law, which we are re-declaring today. On the basis of many expert arguments meetings, New Slovenia has prepared an optimal solution for bicycle owners with an auxiliary engine, and has prepared an optimal solution for the insurance of the drivers themselves and also for the records of these vehicles themselves. We weren't for registration, we weren't for technical inspection, we were just for some registration number of this bike with an auxiliary engine. Who, ladies and gentlemen, is using these vehicles today? I know a lot of pensioners in my places, and I know a lot of young people, these are students who go to school in Mursko Sobota, Lendava and so on. Why? Because there's no organized transport. And now I can say again that this is about a fast-written amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act from some insult. I'm thinking mostly about the modern center party here. We will also vote because this is an eclectic school case of political prestige. Ladies and gentlemen, this is political prestige. Who's paying for it? Our citizens. This is now a testimony, a testimony as to how you, not all in the coalition, not all of you, work for the common good, for our people. I regret that now the entire coalition, which has already, or at least, said a great deal about these two laws, will be involved. I'm not going to repeat these words because I'm not getting involved in the internal relationship of the coalition, but you're going to celebrate with these two laws. Who among us today is capable of presenting an authentic explanation of these two laws? Who among us today is ready to explain how these two marriages will work? Nobody. Since you said so yourself, we will accept this so little temporarily, and then the minister said and explained how they might be doing technical checks on the ground like tractors. Oh, my God! Tractors and wheels with auxiliary engine! You put everything in the same basket. That's crazy! This is crazy! You are introducing new bureaucracy and introducing new financial burdens for our people. And almost every session has a new tax, a new burden. It's common sense against you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. We will, of course, adopt the law in the SMC Group of Members. If I just turn to this Motor Vehicle Act. The law provides for mandatory registration after 1 May 2017. The law is very clear and is supported by both the Government and the Agency for Transport Safety. As for the concerns that this law will still be regulated in the following year, I agree, we can work out something else, but the problem and our contribution to the explanation for why we will support this law today is that the law provides for some kind of holiday time period, let's say. The right deadline for preparation, all those who will have these vehicles, will know that the adopted law will only have to register this in a little while. Of course, we will discuss whether this is yet to be completed or diluted. However, if we are going to adopt this law only next year, then I believe that the next season will also be lost with regard to registration. Or if this is going to happen, I'll say, set in the next law, to enter into force in one week. But I don't think anyone's gonna hope for that. The registration itself, I think it's an important element. My colleague Horvat, as far as prestige is concerned, if this is how you evaluate this law, then I do not think that this should be the reason for you to reject or vote against the law, which follows some of the guidelines of the Resolution on the national road safety programme. The registration of vehicles also contributes significantly to compliance with road traffic rules, so that I believe that this effort will also move towards significantly less damage to roads. If I refresh your memory, in 2015 thousands of 353 bikers were involved in traffic accidents – we also consider the users of these 25 – in which 14 died and 216 were seriously injured and 969. This is not negligible data, and I hope that next year statistics will be significantly better.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think it's about time we all understood the meaning of the explanation of vote. Mr President of the National Assembly once said very well: an explanation of vote means that everyone is dealing with his vote. I've had enough of this controversy. The SMC has overtaken our law, is enough, and please, Mr Vice-President, this time you are chairing to warn Members who are in breach of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u73	The Member of Parliament has heard your warning. Mr Žnidar has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the re-decision of both proposed laws. In his address today, the distinguished minister stressed that the amendment of this law would come next year. This indicates a lack of willingness to marry, since it is not yet adopted, but it is already foretold that this law will be rectified. This is a very clear and clear signal that this marriage is poorly prepared. Such a restrictive approach to users of all bicycles with an auxiliary engine wants to show that cycling in this way, we are talking about an average speed of 15 kilometres per hour, extremely dangerous activity, because it is now necessary to introduce technical inspection, registration, insurance, compulsory wearing of protective helmets for such bicycles and so on. This is, I would say, now the transition to another extreme that is not in the interests of users and being safe here, I would say in saying, exploiting certain goals. Who's gonna benefit the most here? Technical centres and the state budget of the Republic of Slovenia will have the greatest benefit. Who's gonna pay for this? Of course all the users of your wish. Let's calculate the number, this will come from the tax actually paid by the citizens or owners of these bicycles with auxiliary engines, I call it, on the altar about 2 million euros. That's a lot of money, especially for today's situation. Such a proposal with such burdens in the Slovenian Democratic Party cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Who else will be the name of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Then, in his name, Mr. Franz Breznik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I once said in this mandate that we have a dictatorship of the public sector, public servants, people who have never worked in practice. This is a typical example of this. That is why I support the public debate proposed by my colleague Horvat. Take a look at some examples. You said the base was security. How many people in Slovenia kill themselves because of the holes in the roads, how many people kill themselves in Slovenia because we don't have bike paths, how many people kill each year when they fall from cherry trees? I think 20 people are dead when they fall off the cherry. Will we now adopt a special law for this? People of God, I've been saying that a man can fly in a sprint up to 40 kilometers an hour. Does this man need a technical inspection and registration? As a mid-level cyclist, I can cyclists in a sprint of up to 60 kilometers an hour, good cyclists more than 60 kilometers an hour. Do I need a technical inspection and a technical inspection of my bike? Your Honor, where do you live, people of God? And the late Cherič and all the other engineers in Tomos will cross when they see what kind of people we have in Parliament. Twenty-five kilometers an hour. Now look at the second anomaly they accept. But if you have an electric motor, if you have pedals, you don't need one. With an electric motor, it is possible, as an electrical engineering engineer, now I will honestly tell you, to change the electronics over the computer so that this moped can fly, say, with an electric drive of 100 km per hour, but it can fly 25 only by clicking. Mopedi for 25, so-called Tomos flexers, Tomos' mountain range was the only one selling flexers, that's the only thing they're selling, now you're going to stop those, I can say. Then the technical checks. Someone from Churchman's in my case is going to drive a moped on a trailer in Lenart 12 kilometers in winter to confirm to him that it's technically correct. Yeah, well, where did we come from, people of God? Where do you live? On the moon, Mars, Pluto or Neptune? I really don't understand you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. In his own name, he has the word mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! There is and one such beautiful Murphy marriage for what is now being adopted. That’s what politicians tell you — whatever the politicians are telling you, they’re always talking about money. There were a lot of big words here about security, and I don't know what else. It's not about security. It's about money. Just like everything we've talked about before. Even with regard to migrants. That's where the money is, too, and that's what's driving the money. Just like now, it drives your will to vote this nonsense, the desire for money, the one you take from taxpayers. That is why I would politely ask my colleagues not to speak of God's will to peel garlic, but to wear helmets and to carry out the compulsory examination for the peeling of garlic, because this coalition will take the vote for money seriously, and then we really pissed it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Zajc has an explanation of vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If we look at the statistics for 2013, 20 deaths among cyclists, including these twenty-five, in 2014 13 fatalities, in 2015 14 fatalities. Now maybe we can say that because it's not that big, we can say that it's one small number, but I think we all agree that one dead biker is actually one dead biker too. In addition to these fatalities, we also have severe injuries. Among those seriously injured are those who will never go to school or to work again, but who will go every day, every week for therapy in Soča. And if we ask any of these questions, if he agrees to introduce a technical inspection of the vehicle, I am sure that he will say yes, because if this is introduced, we might make sure that his brakes work well, if they accidentally started to get a bad grip, we would make sure that he would replace the lamp that burned out and maybe that the driver who hit him noticed earlier or he would stop in time. We can say that this marriage is lifeless. We can even laugh at him. I remember when we first discussed this law, Member Breznik explained that as a young man he was a sprinter and that at 60 meters he had over 30 kilometers an hour and wondered whether he should have been given a license plate up there. This image of Member Breznik running on a sprinter track in a jersey from the late 1980s with a attached plate on his back is a funny picture. But the image of someone who's 17 years old instead of going on dates with girls, going to Soča to rehab, it's not funny to me, so I'm going to confirm this marriage again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. In her own name, Mrs. Vojka Shergan's explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I will support this law myself because it is appropriate and because the ministry goes to the users because it is also approaching users through technical checks. It will also be possible to implement on the ground, as for tractors, for 4 to 5 years is possible to break the technical review. That's why and for safety's sake, I think this marriage is good, so I'm going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President. This coalition, or the part that will vote for this law today, is very fortunate that yesterday's vote on interpolation support took place 15 minutes before midnight. Because if not, we'd have a great success, two stupid decisions a day. It's only gonna be two consecutive days of stupid decision-making. Look who can support this law will do great harm to many who have decided to buy a so-called flexer simply because, if I simplify, it was without administrative restrictions. Now to these people, you've actually brought them around, you're paying extra taxes. Imagine if now it was in the interest of someone to buy a small motorbike, to bring it from place A to place B, and that no one would kill it with a helmet, that no one would kill it by having to register this vehicle – what will he do after the adoption of the so-called Zorčič Act? He's going to buy a 12-footer, but why would he drive if in any case the engine has to register and wear a helmet, then something small that doesn't go fast and that doesn't come anywhere costs him more or less if he can buy a stronger machine. And that's what you do. In the end, you will not have fourteen deaths in traffic because of these engines, but you will have more, because these vehicles will be faster because no one will just buy them anymore. And the company won't even have a reason to produce them. I'm really wondering, look, someone's probably very happy that the marriage will be named after him, but he's going to be called a stupid marriage. Look, even the one whose stupid marriage is named can't be satisfied. However, a coalition that adopts such a stupid law cannot be satisfied. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you. Procedurally, please, Mr Jani (Janko) Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Vice-Presidents, give me the opportunity to invite us with one beautiful electronic device, who will discuss everything because I want to do something else except listen to stupid discussions. Please don't be alone, I can go out of the hall because I can't listen to that kind of insult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u87	I didn't get your proposal very well. I'm gonna go to the end of this list I have, and then I'm gonna fire it again. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the word in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. Of course I will vote against this law. The fact is that the law also came before the councils of the state and that they voted veto, which also speaks of the content of the law itself. I'd like to re-emphasize something. Just because of the commitment of security to empty the pockets of citizens, it's really irresponsible. Today we've heard about some statistics, how many people have been affected, how many people go to rehab in Soča, how many are dead. Yesterday we were talking about a lot more numbers due to waiting periods. A lot higher numbers and much more tragic, but you supported that situation. Not only did you support it, but you allowed that situation to continue with your voice. So tell the citizens and citizens at least once: we need money. Because, on the other hand, we don't know how to take laws and measures to revive the economy in order to fill the budget, but you only know it with taxes. And here's another way to empty taxpayers' wallets. Of course I'm going against this law. And one more thing. Maybe someone's gonna laugh, but it's actually coming from a disabled person. He texted me with the following text: Dear ones, will you also tax us and ask us to register our vehicles because we cannot walk?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the word on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u90	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Of course, also a nice greeting to Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly. I must say, I am very disappointed in this debate. First, I would say that I will support both laws, but that some of the observations that fly here do not belong in the temple of democracy. These are insults to each other, and I think that a number of debates could receive some kind of warning. In any case, I reiterate that both laws, which in some way create some kind of legal order and essentially regulate the existing legal order of such registration, so-called registration of these vehicles, secondly, by introducing helmets, increase safety and, in some way, the technical verification of these vehicles allows these vehicles to be safe. These blockages that they remove are even more so called after this. If a vehicle on Tromosts wooded 80 kilometers an hour, however, we do need some kind of recording system so that a police officer can register it and, in fact, record it. He can't do that now. Where's the stupid thing? Please! Let us understand that these two laws are written for the benefit of citizens, the safety of young people, children and the elderly. And let's forget once about some political breakthrough, ping-pong left, right. That is why I will support both laws and please stop joking about solutions that are good for all citizens and citizens, including for the health of the youngest. Look at that show that was an excellent contribution, what this law means and what good solutions it is for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Since there is still a desire to define the vote in its own name, please apply. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u92	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are truly masters at how to make people's lives miserable. Masters of complication. From a well-intentioned law that would truly guarantee security, we have made a stalemate, and this is also advocated by the Council of State and experts on this same talk. We are all in this same House for security. Everybody! Is there a problem here? But there is one difference in the perception of this law. Some of you want to register, which means it is mandatory to carry out technical checks, and others, this side of the hall in the majority, we just want to introduce identification plates. What's the difference? The difference is mostly money. On the one hand, you want to make sure that users of these vehicles, mopeds, pay something below 100 euros a year. On the other hand, the identification plate would cost several euros. That's all there is to it, and let people know. This law, as expressed by the leader of the SD Group, who did not say he was stupid, said he was stupid in the previous month's debate. And this marriage is really stupid because it's just taking, it's a new burden, and it's not giving anything. It burdens people. If we look at the costs, look at the bad 50 euros for registration of the new bike, 30 euros for extension, and 30 euros later for registration. Above all, it is a problem, because people, imagine, will also have to register these vehicles from distant places that will bring them into the city itself. Yeah, how are they gonna get here? They're gonna put them in the car? Where are they gonna put them? Let us adopt better, more appropriate legislation and be responsible for it. As Mr Han said at the last one of the meetings, today they will support this law, this law is really stupid.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor, an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u94	I will support the marriage for a simple reason, because I don't care about just one life, which, as a colleague on the other hand said, we must now weigh how many people die in what kind of marriage. I'm ashamed to hear someone say that because no life has its own price. So I wouldn't brag about making these comparisons. If in this way we help to preserve at least one young human life, then I will be happy and proud to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u96	Look, chairman, it was said earlier that there should be a list so that some of them could leave the hall so they wouldn't listen to stupid or stupid discussions. Now you have done so, so I urge you, Vice President, to warn Members that if they are not able to hear exactly what someone says and then abuse those words, they are indeed leaving the Chamber because they are smiling. Because the magnetogram clearly tells what someone has said and the pretending and changing of words and the reading of their own stupidities in this way does not help anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u97	This is not procedural, of course, because you Members are doing what you want. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u98	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask you, Vice-President of the National Assembly, to protect the integrity, not of myself, but of all Members, and to make it clear to Members that you do not have the right to send anyone out of this Chamber. I think that comes with it and let us warn some who think that Members can really do what they want. This path, unfortunately, will not hold.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u99	Well, I think I've already told you. Until the vote, everyone answers, and also at the vote, of course. The word has Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! It was about a week after we discussed both marriages in the National Assembly when the following happened. It must have been fate, at least that's how I explain it to myself. My children came home from school in shock because they saw a car accident in front of their school, a friend of theirs from the school his father gave him for his birthday, a friend from the ninth grade, who was missed by a driver in a car. Of course, the child was not wearing a helmet, and in the end it turned out that the engine he received was not purchased on the official route, but through the dealer. That's why it was fate. Because this is exactly what we are talking about and solving with these legal provisions. Fortunately, this friend of theirs had nothing to do with it. But it could be fatal. And you know, for exactly that reason, I would never forgive myself in my life if I had the opportunity to give my voice for life and for safety, and I wouldn't do that. That's why I vote for both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc, explanation of voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Someone once said, and also wrote down that it was all in his head. This also applies to what is not in your head. Some debates so far try to show with some formulas what a speed for head injury means, as if these two laws are unnecessary. If we remember our experiences from our youth and the first bumps we received, we could see that this was not pleasant at the time, but it was really very, very low speeds. The average man walks five kilometers an hour. Try to run into some metal drugs at this rate. The average runner runs 10 kilometers an hour. Try this speed to run into some metal drugs and you can figure out what the consequences are. Only cosmetic and far worse effects can occur at speeds of 20 kilometers or more. At a speed of 20 kilometers, the human head has an annual weight of 50 kilograms per hour. And we're talking about these speeds in these vehicles. What that means, we can all imagine. That's why, of course, I'm going to support both marriages. It's about human security and property security.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Igor Zorčič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I don't know if I should be surprised or not by this level of debate under one of these basic transport safety laws, we'll probably have to get used to everything. It surprises me, however, that the debate is going to some kind of innkeeper level, but look, I think we're used to it by our colleagues from SDS. It was heard that the marriage was stupid, and at the same time a good comparison, good at saying that Usain Bolt was running like that and that people were running for 40 miles an hour without getting hurt. See, data show fatalities, for a cyclist I'm talking about a 45% lateral collision, a 25% frontal market. So it's a lot of different collisions. To talk about the unnecessary, meaningless marriage, even with such a senseless comparison, that we will now register wheelchairs. That's bizarre what's happening here today. That's bizarre. Really. I don't think we really give a good image, we give no image, not just to citizens, but to all road users or road users. It sounds like we're breaking up and we're loading down financial taxpayers. That's not true! And at the same time, you say something quite the opposite: now everyone will buy a hundred and twenty-five. It's like they're free. These are completely pointless explanations. I say, tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow, whenever an accident might happen, we'll watch TV, look, I'll sleep peacefully, because today I'll support both marriages.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has an explanation of vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. I don't think it's necessary that I don't know how much content we're talking about, because we've had a lot of time on this, and we can already tell our views or opinions. I would like to say how I will vote today. Firstly, we are talking about a law that is very important for the safety of every traffic operator. I think that we can all appreciate that it is very important for young people, but also for older people, to be protected. And the helmet is protected in any case, and there is probably not much divisiveness within the coalition Members and Members. The question is how and why some position is rejected within the opposition Members and Members of Parliament. I'll be happy to support this marriage. But as for the bee registration issue, I'll tell you this. It has already been said today that we will not talk about certain amounts because we are misleading, simple and simple. This is the amount of 4.8 euros per year. So the table costs €7 and registration €17. We in our parliamentary group have proposed that the Minister's Rules of Procedure deal with this issue in such a way that the registration of the bee will be such as the registration of the vessel. That's what they say every five years. It's a good idea to have a record of what's moving in traffic. That's why I made up my mind, even though some of you said it was stupid to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Han, in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u108	Yeah, now we're talking about security. I don't have any big problems with my helmets. But I don't know what security registration will bring, even if we do it every five years. You know what you can do in five years with one engine, 50 cubic, 25 cubic? It's not just an excuse for safety. We can honestly say that this will be one burden for our citizens and citizens. At the helmet, what Mr. Vrtovac said already knows how I'm going to vote, I don't have a problem with the helmet. Responsible parents or responsible people put it on their own, we do not need to write everything down in this country in our lives. But okay, if it's written down, there's no problem. However, registration, ladies and gentlemen, will not help with security. But she'll help with other things. But that's another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Can we vote? Not yet. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u110	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. I'd like to add an even broader view to the previous explanation. Let us get to the level and compare ourselves with the other European countries. With such a proposal, we have the most restrictive approach in this area of wheel regulation with an auxiliary engine. The most restrictive approach in Europe. If we compare ourselves in other segments, we have the highest standard of complexity of the HACCP system in Europe. Are we the best in Europe at the sanitary level? We didn't. We have the highest standard of double separation fences in the middle lane on highways. Is that why we have the safest highways in Europe? We don't. In Slovenia we have the most radar per kilometer of roads in Europe. In these times. Is that why we are most safe in road transport in Europe? We didn't. I would say that even such a restrictive approach in not saying average speeds of 15 kilometres per hour, because security is used in the excessive benefits of certain institutions or operators does not weigh and will not achieve the effect that you want to put on the security account in particular today. I would say, from safety and health, we shouldn't joke about it and we shouldn't make a fool of it. However, we must remain realistic and actually do what is actually best for citizens. Of course, I can't support such a marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u111	I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Branko Zorman has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u112	President, thank you for your word. I cannot agree with the predecessor, Comrade Han. I will back this marriage because I think it has good solutions in it. If we have to technically inspect this vehicle, it must be one step towards greater safety. That it will only be once every five years is in some ways an administrative burden. As far as registration is concerned, the registration includes insurance, colleague Han, and insurance is provided to all those to whom this owner or driver of this vehicle would cause damage to the newly registered vehicle. We don't have that today. If you are harmed either by you or on your property or on your vehicle by someone with an unregistered bee and move on, open your wallet and pay for yourself. As that vehicle is not insured against damage against third parties. It'll be a new one. I'll feel safer about it, and I'll support the marriage again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Slug has an explanation of her vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I'll support this marriage. That's because I'm sure he's good. Today, it has been repeatedly exposed that the solutions in this law go to the user as much as possible. One issue is how often technical checks will be carried out. Here we listen to the obvious that for five years the technical examination makes no sense. Of course he does. Consciousness itself, just thinking about having to go to a technical check-up, causes some effects. Not to mention that registration leads to more traceability. And, of course, insurance. The insurance of the person who was injured in the event of an accident and can receive this insurance, as well as the one who caused it, because the compensation will be drawn from this insurance policy. As for the price of the insurance premium. Today we have heard that they can already be insured voluntarily, and with the introduction of compulsory premiums, we expect these insurance premiums to be reduced. Expensively, €7 per table, €17 for a technical review, these are not the amounts that we can say that we are now putting too much pressure on users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I really hope that this meeting is being watched by our citizens and citizens today, and that they will really be able to figure out today what a huge mistake they have made when the Modern Centre was taken to the National Assembly. Today the Modern Center has shown and shows what it can do. Together, this time I must say, part of the lobbyist power that Desus gained on his side. I think it's a lot of extras. Shame on you. Why? Look, it's the pensioners who, in most cases, drive these mopeds or, sorry, these bikes with the auxiliary engine, and the younger ones. These are two groups of people who are the poorest. And how can Desus follow such a stupid work of the Modern Center. This law is a school case of how lobbyist law is to be adopted. School case. And I can't understand, I really can't understand whether in this national assembly we really are the ones who are concerned about the people and the people, but not the ones we are dealing with only this, we have come to the National Assembly to try and arrange certain privileges for ourselves and our own. And this marriage does nothing else. Additional red tape, a new tax for the Slovenian people, and some individuals will receive a lot of money in their pockets at the expense of poor taxpayers and especially the poorest pensioners and young people, who today are the majority on the social side for survival and do not have jobs, have nothing. We would have taken what they had so far so that from point A to point B they could come with a bicycle with an auxiliary engine.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u117	Mr Pojbič, I asked you if there would be a definition of vote, but you did not define yourself. That was pure controversy. It has nothing to do with this point or this way. Can we vote now? Good. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 31. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 13th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the 14th item of the agenda, which is to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Rules. We're moving on to a re-decision. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the re-decision under the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 26. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 14 of the agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 15th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. We're moving on to a re-decision. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the re-decision under the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Secretary of State. The New Slovenia Group will also vote again against the amendment of the Law on Income from Legal Persons. This minimizes tax reform, as the Government says, we simply and more comprehensiblely call it tax translation. We regret that the Slovenian economy is being burdened again. The economy, which is the only one that deserves to have economic growth today, is as a result of a larger influx and that we have new jobs and consequently less registered unemployment. This particular segment, the very Slovenian economy now wants to put the coalition back on the line. The meeting of the National Assembly does not practically pass, where new and new burdens would not be placed on the Slovenian economy. How far this will go, of course, we do not know, but the account will eventually be given to those who propose and accept such proposals. Let's see the numbers. We have adopted the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. This afternoon, we will be discussed at the Committee on Finances of the 2017 budget balance, taking into account the inclusion of this mini-tax reform. What does it bring? It brings about the fact that corporate income tax inflows following the 2017 budget changes will be higher by 107 million 779 thousand than in the original approved budget and that the revenue surplus due to the new Income Act will be higher by 49 million 523 thousand. The difference is 58 million 256 thousand. What does that 58 million mean? This means that the country's absorption is increased by the 2017 budget rebalancing. With this mini-tax reform of yours, the country's greed increases by a good 58 million. If we could see at least a little somewhere that the state is working for a slim state, that the coalition is trying to rationalise the functioning of the country, we see nothing about it. It is therefore prudent to vote against this law and we are not in the New Slovenia Group we will act in a sound mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 21. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 15 of the agenda. We're moving on to 19. Period of the day, that's the defense of man-favoral affairs. We are discussing the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Vice-Presidents and the appointment of Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth and the Commission on Rules of Procedure. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party and published on the e-club. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve Vice-President Irena Grošelj Kosnik in the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and to appoint Vice-President Jasna Murgel. In the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, Vice-President Irena Kotnik is hereby dismissed and appointed Vice-President Saš Tabaković. In the Rules of Procedure Commission, Vice-President Jasna Murgel shall be dismissed and appointed Vice-President Jani Möderndorfer. There are 74 Members and Members voting for 72, against no one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby end the 19th item of the agenda, which we will continue on Tuesday, 25 October. I am also adjourning the 23rd session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
