ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Jan Škoberne, Mr Branko Zorman by 16:00 and Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, the candidate of the Constitutional Court, Dr Špelco Mežnar, the candidate of the Constitutional Court Judge Mark Šorli and the representative of the Council to the 24th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move to the agenda of the meeting, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly. Respectable citizens and citizens, Members and Members of Parliament, President of the Government and Government! In these days, we mark and remember all the important events and milestones that have fueled the emergence of our country, the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia. We are at a time of celebration and joyful memories, so it is also right that we are at this time moved by a sense of joy, contentment, and pride. It is a joy to be able to exercise our fundamental human right to self-determination, to be satisfied that we have been able to achieve an enviable level of social and political unity, and to be proud of our decision to defend and achieve international recognition. But we must be aware that not all have such memories. Therefore, it would be irresponsible to forget at the same time the wider historical background in which Slovenia was born. The background in which the breakup of our former common country has not only exceeded all those Balkan proverbial designations as a barrel of powder, but has turned into one of the most bloody, insensitive and inhumane episodes in the history of the nations that have lived in this area for centuries. It was 21 years ago that one of the most cruel plans in the Srebrenica area began to be implemented in order to achieve nationalist political objectives, and it was clearly in contravention of our common civilisation standards. The Srebrenica genocide has inflicted deep wounds on the entire international community or, rather, the moral community of mankind. The likeness of the sea of thousands into the green fabric of wrapped baptisms that melt with the silent silvery hills will forever be entwined in our collective memory and stand as a reminder of what a man is capable of when he is led by the cruelest evil in his actions. Last year, in this National Assembly, the flower of Srebrenica – a symbolic memory of the innocence of victims of tragic events two decades ago and a significant reminder to us that their stories are also passed on to future generations. The question that rightly arises to us is whether or not such a memory will fade with the constant annual repetition, our feelings will not fade. The answer is no. They won't. They can't. For our perseverance in memory is the one that preserves man within us and not only allows us to do so, but commands that we resist inhumanity and reject manhood. It is worth recalling the words of the recently deceased camper, including Nobel laureate Eli Wiesla, who said: "Where and whenever human beings are subjected to suffering and humiliation, we must define ourselves. Neutrality helps a tyrant, never a victim. The silence encourages the tormentor, the never-suffering." Respected and respected! The history of mankind is diverse, and many times we cannot be proud of it, especially when we witness our inability and unwillingness to learn. The time of great discoveries has also been marked by the systematic and cruel slaughter of indigenous peoples on the outskirts of all the continents of our planet, whose members have been marked barbarians, savages, and inhumans, and many times we forget this. The development of humanism and the spirit of enlightenment that followed have placed human beings, their senses and minds at the centre of our community, and gradually, through intellectual thought, they have developed awareness of their inalienable rights, rights that belong exclusively to them on the basis of their humanity, which we, as a civilization, are obliged to protect. But the past century of crimes that I have already spoken about in this Hall bears witness that we have not internalized the values that have been developed and have not corrected our errors. Armenian Metz Yeghern, Ukrainian Holodomor, Jewish Shoah, Nazi Holocaust, Cambodian murderous fields, Rwandan cemeteries and the green sea of the Srebrenica tragedy are just some of the ghastly reminders of how fragile the human will is and how insecure the consequences of mass manipulation with corrupt interests of the sand against ethnically different or otherwise. However, we may have taken at least a partial step further by carefully developing the language with which we speak about wrongdoing. As the famous British writer Clive Staples Lewis said: “Do not use too many words, do not say endlessly when you think so much, because you will run out of words when you want to talk about something really endless.” Don't get me wrong. The language does not define our relationship with the victims of humanity, their humanity is anchored in each of us by their own destiny. On the contrary, our language defines our attitude toward humanity, those for which we must strengthen not only our words, but also the actions that will reduce the number of victims for years, decades, and centuries, for which we cultivate and preserve our memory. But his perseverance must remain forever. Respected and respected! As in previous years, we are also concerned today that the Srebrenica screams of horror will never be forgotten and that our solidarity and compassion with the victims will be undeniable. That's why I'm asking you to bow to them with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ Thank you. We are moving on to the agenda for the 21st meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 1 July 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Following an agreement at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 6 July 2016, I proposed to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 21st meeting be extended by 3a. Point, this is with the Proposal for a Law on measures to remedy the effects of cold and snow in agricultural production between 25 and 30 April 2016. You received your proposal for enlargement on Wednesday 6. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its He wants to speak with a representative of the Magnificent Government. Diane jedan? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! In April of this year, there was a cold of weather that has not been present in Slovenia for the last 60 years. At the Ministry and in the Government, together with NGOs, we have drawn up a proposal, a draft intervention law, which, with four measures, helps both farms and the agricultural economy. Since the implementation of the first measure has to begin in August, please accept an extension of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u3	Would you like a word with the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the presentation of the position of the enlargement proposals. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. It's 80 for the vote, no one's against it. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. In accordance with the meeting's timing, the meeting will consider this item on Thursday, 14. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. It's 80 for the vote, no one's against it. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 21st meeting of the assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 40 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order for the question to be asked shall be set in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, apologized for today. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Dr Miro Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Mag. You have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Cerar, in the last year you have clearly demonstrated why you wanted power in your hands. Since you have run the government, you have repeatedly demonstrated how much you care about people and the country. From allowing the Slovenian people to divide into small people and those who are more dedicated to them, from a well-frozen office you smooch them to pay the price because they disagree with your decisions. In recent events in Luka Koper, masks have fallen, you have clearly shown that you are ready to connect to the lobby and work in their interest. The benefits of the company, the benefits of the people, and the benefits of the country are far, far away. Just as under your government it is broken after Slovenian property, it is not yet in Slovenia. In the New Ljubljana Bank you wanted to set up people who did not even meet the basic legal conditions. Why not? So they can start digging a new hole? You sold the new Maribor Credit Bank to the fund for EUR 200 million, taking over the potential bond burden for taxpayers. The first step of the new owner was to exhaust the entire profits from the bank. You can tell us why you allow it. The events in Luka Koper are on the i. Those you set up in SDH are publicly threatening to release special forces over the protestors. Mr. Cerar, where are you on such statements? Why don't you take action? The SDH is led by the obvious every day, their decisions are taken by the KPK and you are not taking action. Didn't you say things would be different under your government? And it's really different. But you forgot to tell people how different. The Slovenian nation did not imagine that lobbying and people from the background of state-owned companies would be self-serviced — take wherever you want and if you want it, is the method you have put in place. I think, given the latest developments in Luka Koper, it is right that you tell us and the Slovenian people clearly and loudly who is responsible and responsible for everything that has happened in Luka Koper in the last month.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u5	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you very much. What I have just heard, Mrs Bratušek, was not really a question, it was a list of accusations which are so very unrealistic that I would like to say a few words about it. In fact, you're saying that we wanted power to do bad things. That's not true. We were the government that was appointed by the Slovenian State Holding, i.e. through the National Assembly, by professional criteria, by the Commission of Independent Experts, by the Trade Commission of the Ministry through the Government and through the democratic process in the National Assembly. Remember what your government called SDH. Remember how you 15 companies have put on a list of unordered privatisation, meaning, without a goal, without a vision, and that then we, our government, have arranged this with a strategy for managing state investments as it should, with the economic investments of the country, i.e. with state assets, banks, insurance companies and state-owned enterprises, under certain criteria, without untransparent procedures, as is good for people, for taxpayers. And lastly, I must admit, before I go to Luka Koper that I am truly, and now I am tired of you, Mrs Bratusek, who destroyed political stability with her rule, when she let the government sink because of some, I would say, of the few agreements that you had, because of the personal interest she gave to the State, left the country in bad shape to all of us, who, by changing the decisions at the time you entered on the management of state property, did even damage to Slovenia before the international public. And now I'm listening to these readings from you, not today, every day, on television, wherever you sound, you keep criticizing, you're disagreeable. Okay, but I have to tell people that it doesn't hold what you're saying. I must say that this government is doing much better than yours, so after two years we have brought the country out of this crisis, which the European Commission has acknowledged to us because it has exempted us from the control process. There is no longer the danger of a threesome, we have stable finances, public debt is no longer growing, and we are working on it. Luca Koper. That's where the manipulation took place. The work stopped, because of something that had never been said or planned at all, workers, people were concerned about doing certain things that apparently were encouraged by Luke’s leadership. Everything that is going on in the business process of this state company, namely Luke Koper, is, of course, responsible for the leadership, administration and supervisory council. And if the process did not run, if it was blocked, if there were blockades and even that international foreign partners were informed that Luka Koper was not working and that it was the Government's fault, which is absurd, then someone would have to bear responsibility for this because the damage, damage to Slovenian railways, damage to certain companies and in particular damage to Luka Koper and damage to Slovenia, because the ships were diverted to Trieste. And now we're all laughing outside that Luke, who is our most successful state investment on the coast that this government cares about, is preparing to build a second track, to encourage it to work well, we want her well that this Luka has blocked itself into this process. We won't let that happen again. And I was concerned that these manipulations did not stop, so I really called the employees' representatives to an interview that was constructive and listened to them. Of course, I was most interested in whether the rights of workers are violated, whether there are illegal practices, which are now widely spoken, including experts, people from government departments, inspectors say there are irregularities. I don't know, but I do, and it's already being done to make sure that even if there is to be, if there is to be any charges, anything, criminals, especially the Court of Auditors and everyone else, I expect these results. I believe, however, that it is already so obvious what has happened to Slovenian citizens there, that it is now only important that Luka Koper is working normally, that the Government can normally devote itself to building a second track and encouraging Luke to do this for the people there in Luka, in Cyprus and beyond and for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u7	Mag. Alenka Bratus, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you. Dear President, perhaps it would be time for you to get down on the real ground. If they took that Friday for an hour to talk to the people who deserve it, there would be no harm. And you couldn't even get to the Slovenian coast. In Luka Koper, you wanted to replace three supervisors from nine. Have someone explain to us what three of the nine supervisors can do to change the company. It's supposed to be bad business. Once we've proven to you that this is not true, it's supposed to be the reason why the strategy is not being implemented. When we proved to you that Luke Koper could be even more successful, it was you who were sitting on the government who became the reason for the crime and crime in Luka Koper. Why didn't you put that argument on the table right away, Mr. President? You know why? Because the only intention was to replace some with yours. All these irregularities could happen further, as they do in other Slovenian companies, such as Darsa, you have replaced the supervisors, you have replaced the administration and immediately immediately after the visible member of SMC Mr. Avbrecht gets a good contract to make a call, where in the meantime there are irregularities, as tender documentation is complemented. Not to mention again the company Sava, d. d., which you wanted to move to the Slovenian state holding company by decision of the Government to leave hidden irregularities. And you're telling the Slovenes and the Slovenes to watch out for the mob that will rule this country. I'm worried he's already doing this today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u9	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u10	I'm just gonna be for a little while because I really don't want to get involved in this imaginary fight. I'll just say it again. This government is doing what it has to do for people. Work in the company, in this case to a state-owned company, because two-thirds of Luke Koper are state-owned, and this is a strategic company that we, our government, have defined as strategic, not any earlier. We have said that this state-owned enterprise is of strategic importance, which should be specifically encouraged. In this company, the ultimatums, the stagnation, the resistance to the illegal, it wasn't a strike, it wasn't a strike, it wasn't a strike, it was a mutiny, encouraged in any way, which blocked the business process, so it was responsible leadership and those who triggered it. And apparently, I have to explain again. It is not the Government which is responsible for the recruitment in the Port Koper supervisory councils and other state-owned companies, but the Slovenian State holding company. This government respects the principle of corporate governance, so it is said that the Slovenian State Holding is the one who, according to the professional criteria – and therefore we have – choose this supervisor, who then chooses the administrations. Of course, everyone has the right to make public his opinions on this. I also invited the Slovenian State Holding and Luka to calm their passions. And the Slovenian state holding company listened to it and withdrew its proposal, which upset a lot of people. What was the reaction on the side of those down there in Luka Koper, I find it hard to say workers because they were manipulated, I don't know exactly who did it, even more resistance, to oust the government, as if the government were running the business, as if the government were staffing, which is not true. And as long as you act as if politics is setting people up in companies, what has been done before, we will live in the past, with our government and with the following, when we change the rules, when we go to corporate governance, politics can express its opinion, but the staffing takes place professionally, on some criteria that are set. We will also insist on this, at least I will insist on this, and I will not go along with such untruths, and I will tell people over and over again that you are wrong that this government is working in such a way that Luke Koper is doing well. That is why we are also working to build a second track, railway and connect this port with Central and Eastern Europe and preserve Slovenia as a geostrategic important country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u11	Mag. Alenka Bratušek you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr President, fairy tales are usually for a later hour. Slovenia has been going through a difficult period of recession in recent years, which has lasted longer than in European countries, but as a country we have managed to get back on our feet. We record economic growth, not very high, but yes. Unemployment is declining, the measures that have weighed people down are slowly, but they are saying goodbye. But you know what, Mr. Cerar, it's not me or my government that's responsible for all of this, and it's even less you or your government. For all of this it is the Slovenian nation that has put Slovenia back on track with denial and hard work. People who work for 600 euros a month, pensioners who survive from 400 euros a month, doctors, teachers, police officers and all those who were willing to give up a lot of money. All these people are responsible for Slovenia being back on track. And all of you deserve an answer to why you manage our assets in this way. Not to be wrapped under the cover of corporate governance. You've put people in the Slovenian state holding company and that's why you're responsible for what's going on there. And lately it's time for someone to take responsibility for all of this. You know what hurts the most? That the government that says it's left-handed, that's how it deals with our assets. Therefore, it is appropriate that we discuss the matter of Luke Koper in this National Assembly and perhaps all others at a meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u13	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 13 July 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Anže Logar, you have the floor to ask a question to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you, President. This coalition has put the pursuit of banking crime at a declaratory level at the beginning of a coalition agreement. I will quote only the third point on this point: "To ensure that confidence is restored in financial institutions, supervisory institutions and the rule of law institutions, it is necessary to define responsibility for the resulting bank hole and to demand compensation and material liability." Next: "Responsibility to carry out the investigation of the bank hole shall be transferred from DUTB to Bank of Slovenia." Now we have a problem. On Wednesday, criminals were at the Bank of Slovenia, i.e. an institution which, following a coalition decision, is primarily responsible for identifying the reasons for banking crime. And in the first response, the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Cerar, said that he trusted the competent authorities to think very carefully about the investigation and to carry out all the acts in accordance with the law. Look, Mr Cerar, you trust everyone very well, you trust the Minister of Justice very well, although he has repeatedly been proven to have violated the law, you trust the Minister of Health very well, although she has not yet accepted any reform, you trust Mr Gasperšič in his work, although the public and the street say otherwise. Furthermore, you say that the law enforcement authorities must be careful that they do not exceed their powers, that they do not interfere with the independence of the Bank of Slovenia and damage its reputation and its role in the financial system. Here you may have thought of this last sentence of this order, which says, quote, but it was written by Judge Irena Topolšek: "I also assume that seized equipment and data contain confidential information which does not refer to the subject of a confidential investigation." That sounds a little fishing, if I'm not mistaken, Mr President of the Government, and that's probably why you have this statement. And now I'm wondering what you're going to do if this procedure falls due to what's called fishing because of unconstitutionality. And after this persecution, we'll be blessed with the pursuit of banking crime. Remember, the computers of one Member were lost in this investigation, the hearings were conducted without a court order, the attempt was made to seize the server of the largest opposition party, and not least, as I have now learned in the slightly bizarre persecution of the former Prime Minister, the three witnesses have somehow miraculously disappeared from the trial file. Interesting. That's why I'm asking you: What will you do if the matter falls? You said you had all the scenarios worked out, so I'm asking you: What would happen if the Constitutional Court ruled that the removal of subordinates was unconstitutional? Where are you going to find an extra 600 million? What will you do if this is due to manipulation and partial data? What will you do if nothing happens?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u15	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you very much for the questions, honourable Member. In fact, the government can only welcome the proactive role played by the competent authorities in detecting and prosecuting banking crime. Of course, things are going on here. But I must stress that you have asked this question because it is precisely the additional developments in this area that allow for some regulatory changes, changes in this mandate. Last year, a new Banking Act was passed, which regulated the conditions for access to data protected as bank secrecy, which we know was a very important shift before that. Last year, the Act on measures to strengthen the stability of banks was also supplemented. This now lays down a noticeable duty for persons who are in a legal relationship with the DUTB, which is an important measure. The law enforcement authorities must also report the offence to persons who have been informed of any criminal offence related to the bank. We therefore rejected the Section of the Criminal Procedure Act, which did not provide for such an obligation. It is said that two important regulatory changes, two laws in this mandate in this direction. In this mandate, we have also imposed higher penalties for corruption crimes and have extended the limitation deadlines so as not to wear off such acts in connection with bank holes. There have been many times before that things have gone awry. We have defined more precisely the offences of tax evasion and abuse of internal information. We have made it possible to optimize the court's staff, and with 30 new state prosecutors, we have strengthened the work of prosecution. Police are also carrying out financial investigations with these areas, as I said, in parallel with the investigation of suspected crimes, with the aim of identifying, tracking and securing the unlawfully acquired property benefits. In order to ensure greater efficiency, the police concluded an agreement with Banka Slovenije in 2014, March, that was already the case, on mutual cooperation. The police regularly report to the two Committees of the National Assembly on their affairs, these matters, and have also appointed an expert in the provision of professional assistance to the Parliamentary Commission. So you can see here, we have taken a lot of action in this mandate to detect a bank hole. But I must warn you, there will be no doubt that this bank hole was created once before. Let's remember what term, when. It's really kind of interesting who's trying to show us in a critical light. Nevertheless, you are right, these measures are necessary, they are necessary, so I am moving them again now, otherwise you already know some. Regarding the investigation in Banka Slovenije, which you mentioned. Let me just say that no organ, an independent, autonomous body, should be out of control. You said, "I trust you." Yeah, I'm a man who likes to trust, especially when I check someone, and look, everyone deserves a measure of trust, but some famous thought of trust is good, control is even better. So, especially as President of the Government, I am aware that, despite confidence, there must be constant supervision of every official, every employee, public, in fact, of everyone who does important work. Therefore, control must also be ensured over the Bank of Slovenia. It is important, however, that each such procedure be conducted in accordance with the law if there is supervision or investigation and also in accordance with the principle of proportionality. That's important, too. Data you're interested in. Slovenia recapitalised banks in difficulty in 2013 totalling EUR 3 billion 647 million. Of this, a billion 122 and a few million euros were paid in money, the remainder being government bonds. At the same time, the country issued EUR 560 million of state guarantees for DUTB when it purchased the risk items and EUR 30 million of bank debt guarantees at Banka Slovenije for liquidity purposes. Of course, banks have been in the process of being rehabilitated, even before our mandate, and stockholders and subordinated securities have also been involved. Now our government is dealing with this problem, which is really significant, and let me say that there are legal proceedings going on here. The final cost of bank recovery at all due to court proceedings cannot be definitively predicted, but I assure you again, I also assure the public that the Government is ready for various outcomes. How, what I cannot say more clearly in the interest of further processes here, but I repeat, we are prepared for various possible outcomes and let us wait for these procedures to end. However, you have seen, we have taken measures that are very, very specific, legal, the appointment of prosecutors, the conduct of procedures, and now I want only and I call upon the competent authorities to follow these procedures as quickly as possible, of course in accordance with the expertise.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u17	Mag. Ange Logar, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you, President. The Prime Minister of the Government has remained loyal to himself. He hasn't replied to anything. Now, look, I'm going to ask you how you're commenting on your own investigation into Banka Slovenije, knowing that some who have been directly digging a bank hole in some bankers have not had a house investigation to date and have been reported to law enforcement authorities in mid-2012. Even more, some are invited and asked as witnesses to explain to them the credit procedure at the Institute of Bank Stock Specialists, even though they themselves have signed loans for more than 10 million holes and we are paying them today. Also unusual is the time frame of this review, which Data Retention Directive says, three years remain on those relays and it will take exactly three years. 9. 2016, therefore, it is also likely to find reasons why in Banka Slovenije not after those who have dug the bank hole. Next, I wonder how I can believe your words if your justice minister here has been sympathetic to the statement made by a judge at the District Court in Ljubljana that the parliamentary investigation or the law is unconstitutional. How should I believe the real desire to look into the reasons and reasons and those responsible for banking crime, if your Minister of the Interior on the Justice Committee said, quote: "There is a very important component missing here, which is essential, perhaps we are too busy dealing with the situation behind us?" So how can I believe in the government in this respect that what they have in the coalition contract at the outset is not only a dead letter on paper, but a serious intention to identify the culprits, those who cost us each EUR 2 000 500?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u19	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you. I'm not actually gonna answer anymore because you obviously don't listen to what I'm saying. You said I didn't answer anything. On the contrary, I mentioned the facts of the laws we passed, I mentioned the numbers, I mentioned the assessments and the plans. Everything has been stated in fact, so obviously it is not your desire to listen, but to criticize. It's true, you're right. Terrible things have happened in the past few years. Terrible things. Art bankruptcys, employee humiliations, bank holes, TEŠ 6, affairs themselves, highway affairs, here, there, third, taxpayers have been robbed everywhere. And you're right, there are huge, huge irregularities, huge financial gaps that have arisen on the burdens of our people. And now our government is saving it. There are also various arbitration disputes from the previous periods, which have been brewed by others. For example, last year, remember, just before the new year, we had to pay some ten million for a matter that arose more than 10 years ago because of the irresponsible conduct of certain elites. Now our government is solving all these things that it has not done, at least most of the government has not blamed them. And it's important that we do this intensely. I told you what we're doing. I assure you that the procedures are largely ongoing, the data is accessible and we will work forward to resolve these matters. However, I cannot comment on the concrete procedures concerning the Bank of Slovenia, this is not my responsibility, it would be wrong. I told you what's fundamentally important, everything else is in the domain of the profession. Our government will responsibly take matters forward, investigate illegal acts and do not worry, we will do our duty to the best of our ability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u21	Mag. Ange Logar, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you, President. Unlike the Prime Minister, I'm worried. I am also concerned about his statements yesterday on, I think they had a clause within, when he said, at least after reporting to the media, according to him, the SMC dilemma is about whether they will allow Slovenia to remain or become a mafia state with interested groups controlling it. The word "remain" means that there is already a country like this today, and you are in power for two years. And if I quote your opening statement before the elections you borrowed from someone else, it says, "For the victory of evil, it is enough for good people to do nothing." So, it's been two years since we've come from a predisposition that you've been good people, given that you've based the platform on moral and ethical standards, and I'm going to ask you, you say, we've taken a lot of measures, and how many bankers are sitting? We have two acquittals. Two spring rulings, although some proposals have been on the table since 2008. So you can't say that this government has done everything in its power. And then, now that we have a new procedure, which I hope will not fail the process, I still ask you where those primarys are responsible for the bank's criminal hole. Why aren't they being investigated? And we get back to the new paradox, because in the Bank of Slovenia they seized some documents, the original documents of the records of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia just as the investigative commission began to seize and obtain these records, these documents are now unattainable for the investigative commission. And look, the court just decided that we could seize the documents of the New Ljubljana Bank. What if they also seized the original documents at Nova Ljubljanska Bank and then the parliamentary investigation was unable to seize them for this reason? There are many coincidences in this story of banking crime, but surely this persecution is not as much as it could be read on the basis of a coalition agreement, so it is appropriate that we also make one in-depth debate in the National Assembly, not only that the President of the Government reads to us what they have already written with the legislation already adopted, but that a little proactively intervenes in the coalition contract as a matter of priority. Indeed, I agree with this, with the entry in the coalition contract – the confidence of citizens in institutions is crucial to the progress of this society. And such events, which do not lead to epilogues, but only further warm the atmosphere without some court instance, only increase the dissatisfaction of people with the work of the rule of law. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u23	Mag. Anže Logar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 13 July 2016, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, in recent days you have repeatedly assured yourself that this government or you will not privatize Luke Koper. But at the same time it is clear here that your project of public-private partnership for the second track without privatisation is somehow not feasible. If we look at some facts. The government has set up a project company called 2TKK, which according to your plans or plans will be government-owned by the majority of private owners. This same company will manage the second track and, of course, the other tracks as now run by Slovenian railways. Therefore, the granting of a concession to a private company in some way is in itself a privatisation. Privatisation does not end at this point; the utility charged by the project company will not cover the investment, it is clear to everyone, and therefore you will actually have to provide private investors with some additional revenue elsewhere. I will also quote the government's response on this to our written question. “The main idea is to grant a concession to 2TKK to build and manage a new railway connection and others with a logistical economic activity related to capacity.” End of quote. I think math is pretty simple. We all know that the competitive advantage of Kopra is precisely in that all activities are carried out by one Luka Koper company, which is owned by the majority state. That's why I'm asking you: Do you intend to grant private investors a concession to build a third pier in the area of the port of Cyprus? If the third pier is not an option, so if it is not a plan, say: What are the remaining concessions that are taken into account to ensure the return on investment to these private investors? And then there's the extra thing: Did your assurance, above all, that Luka Koper, d.d., is a strategic state investment, or does this mean that it is in the form we know today, that the manager of the public port infrastructure is in accordance with the concession contract concluded by 2043, if this is so, if you and the Government are prepared to do so also to demonstrate this by somehow adopting an appropriate document, in which this would be clearly and unequivocally recorded? At your programming conference on Saturday, it was said that SMC is a customer of good people, be a good person, try to be honest and give direct, very clear answers to the questions I have asked you, preferably without reading already prepared reminders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u25	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Mr Vatovec. In the opening, let me explain that the award of the concession does not constitute privatisation, since the concessionaire is granted the right to build and use the buildings he builds. These objects, after the concession period, go to their own country, the state is a candidate here, as it is called professionally. Let me stress that this company for the construction of the second track, i.e. the 2TKK below, which will obtain a concession for the construction and management of the second track of the Koper-Divač railway, will not be transferred to ownership of the land, but will be granted a building right only for the duration of the concession contract. During this time, building rights will be entered on land and ownership of all buildings will be transferred to the country at the end of the building right as landowner. Since the revenue of the utility will not be sufficient to cover the investment, nor would it be necessary for the State to build this connection itself, it will be necessary for 2TKK, in addition to the payment of the availability by the State, namely the so-called adequacy, to provide additional commercial revenues, and this means that we must attract private investors to the project. The funding model will be set out in the law and in the service volume and level contract, which must also include a clause that, where the service is not performed, there is no payment for this service. It does not claim that the State should ensure the profitability of the investment to private, domestic or foreign investors. The State will pay the concessionaire 2TKK for the service provided to ensure the availability of the railway connection within the agreed scope and level of the service. However, if the latter is not fully secured by 2TKK, the State will pay it relatively less and there may also be a situation where the company will not receive any payment if the connection is not available. However, the task of the State as a candidate is to seek out private investors in the public tender, which will provide the agreed level of services in the most economically advantageous way. With regard to the fear of privatisation of port management, I should point out that under the Regulation on the management of the port of Cyprus, the port manager is the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the country which can transfer individual management tasks to the concessionaire under the concession contract, the State has also done so and is doing so now by Luka Koper, d.d. With regard to railway infrastructure, let me explain that the infrastructure manager is subject to the railway law by a subsidiary of the Slovenian Railways, the Slovenian Railway Company – Infrastructure. Since it is necessary to allow 2TKK to provide an adequate available connection on the part of the network between Divisco and Kopro, it must also be granted a service concession for this part of the network alone, for the existing and for the new route, while the remaining network remains in the management of the SZ-Infrastructure. The details of such a way of managing the work of the network will be precisely regulated in the draft law being drawn up. Therefore, as it follows from all of this, it will not transfer land to 2TKK, i.e. a company for the construction of a second track, but will only be granted building rights and concessions for construction and services. Following the expiry of the concession contract, infrastructure will go back to its own country, so privatisation, including rail infrastructure management, cannot be achieved. So I'm on to you, I'd say a rather comprehensive way of explaining how this thing is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u27	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you. In fact, I expected what would happen, in short, that the answer would not be the same as usual. Among other things, you have read the reply that was prepared on June 9th, and the law you are talking about should already be in public hearing by the end of March. So much for that. I have a feeling that what you've just said, or we already know because it's kind of a mantra or a permanent answer, it's only about not being another track. Now you've been in the government for two years, and in a way this second track is supposed to be a priority, but you still don't know what this exact concession model will be like, what will be the way to invest. In fact, the fact that in some way you don't know what you're going to offer to a private investor means that, of course, this private investor will not be and neither will the other kind. I'm not going to try to argue my questions here anymore, but I'm just asking them again and I'm really asking you for clear and direct answers. I repeat: How will you attract private investors? Does your last assurances, what we have heard the previous days, mean that Luka Koper will remain a concessionaire until 2043, and do not mean further dismemberment of the port of Cyprus, so of course I mean the opening of a concession agreement on the third pier and of course the arrival of new concessionaires to the area of the port of Cyprus? It is a model that we have in Slovenia, which other countries envy us. Research clearly highlights this as a competitive advantage, and I have the feeling that in some ways your government, as well as with Minister Gasperšič, is trying to get rid of these competitive advantages and also in some way try to get rid of some other motives.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u29	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you very much. It is not true that I did not give an answer, which I have stated in detail some of the facts which are important in relation to your response. But you say, now I have to answer that there will be no doubt, you say we've been on the government for two years, we haven't done anything. Nothing's been done before. 23 years of nothing or went this way, and it stopped and fell back and so on. What did we do? We have gained all the consensus, including the environmental consensus. The right to build on all land needed to build a second track is acquired. Two building permits have been obtained covering the entire course of the second track. A special company for the construction of the second track is established and for what I have explained in the first part of the interview. We are working intensively with the Länder, the European Commission and the European Investment Bank to obtain funding for this construction, i.e. European funds, the EFSI mechanism, deposits, loans from the Länder. Last year it was also realized, which is very good, a project to deepen the waterways to 15 meters in the port. In the context of the previous financial perspective, some EUR 200 million has been invested in updating the existing railway link. A project to modernise public railway infrastructure in the port area is being completed, namely the electrification of the range group. We're just starting to build an extraction track, which is essentially the starting point of the next track. We are also, of course, trying to settle old issues. I think I mentioned in this short time because this time does not allow me to explain in more detail, a few facts, that we are serious. But it is not easy, it is not easy and really this project is a requirement, requires the participation of Slovenian Railways, requires the participation of Luke Koper, who is actually working for it to be even more successful. And it's true if the model is successful, and it is, it's good, but the future brings new challenges. The port of Koper must remain competitive with other ports in the northern Adriatic, increasing the capacity for transhipment will therefore need this second track. And we look ahead, we have this vision. I therefore hope that we will establish good cooperation with Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways and with all other stakeholders, including private partners, that this construction of the track will take place as soon as possible and will help to develop the port of Koper and the reputation of Slovenia in this geostrategic position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u31	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u32	Yeah, thanks again. The fact is that these were not the answers or, if they were, the answers to some of the foreign matters, but they were also quite incorrect or inaccurate. Most of the land was purchased in the previous years before you came to the government. 2TKK is a project that, in fact, comes as an idea that has no agenda in the background, you still do not know how to build a second track with such a model. Of course, the great problem was also the first call for proposals under the CEF European funds, which, of course, was fully dilettarian and it was clear at the time that this would not work. Your answers only point to the fact that this government, I'm afraid, is not capable of building a second track, not even with such a relationship. If it is built by foreign investors, it will, of course, be paid by citizens and citizens with subsidies and, consequently, by privatisation and concessions. I think that Slovenia has the technology to build a second track, but it does not clearly have a political class that would be able or willing to realize this project without any other benefits. Unfortunately, this is the difference between countries such as Slovenia and independent countries such as Austria, which is, of course, accelerating the construction of the railway bypass around Slovenia. The project will cost more than 9 billion and there they are able to build it with their state railways, with European funds, and also with loans for which the state itself has provided guarantees. In short, they are building in the way proposed in Luka Koper, proposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, only to be built by Dars. I do not think it is a coincidence that even Minister Gasperšič knows any case of public-private partnership of this kind in Europe. Europe is not the third world, Austria does not grant concessions in order to ensure that foreign companies, although they are subject to purely the same rules, European rules as Slovenia, even more Austria has a higher public debt than Slovenia, has a significantly lower economic growth and, contrary to us, has a much unresolved banking crisis. In short, if the authorities cannot build another track without a public-private partnership, they must leave because of incompetence. If they don't want to do this because they're working in the interest of private capital, then they have to leave because of corruption. In short, in any event, I believe that the National Assembly should immediately hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government. In some ways, however, I ask you, President of the National Assembly, to ensure that the President of the Government actually answers questions, because we often come to situations where, in fact, ready answers are read in advance, which has nothing to do with what is the institution of the parliamentary question, so that we get specific information on specific issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u33	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will decide on your proposal on Wednesday, 13 July 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr Peter Wilphan, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! Your Honor, Mr. President of the Government. Almost daily, the whole country, with great sadness and resentment through the media, is monitoring reports of tragic incidents related to family violence, alleged irregularities in child abduction procedures for parents or old parents, as well as unfortunately serious violence against children. It is a public impression that the Centres for Social Work, the police, the courts and, not least, the health institutions do not work together to protect children's rights, but act individually, which is unfortunately not enough when it comes to protecting children. The practice shows that many victims try to find their own way after a one-time visit to the Centre for Social Work and that they prefer to turn to the CSD body, which should help them, non-governmental organisations that offer them immediate assistance. Moreover, social work centres have been delaying for too long with certain cases, while domestic abuse, violence, and worst of all, children continue. But the worst part is that it is the children who lose their childhood. On 25 March 2012, we decided on the family code at the referendum, which was unfortunately supported by only 45% of voters. Why are you sorry? We cannot avoid feeling that the Slovenian public did not even know what the decision is or what the actual content of the family code is. The referendum campaign has, as always, focused only on the rights of same-sex partners, but here we must be clear, the family code has provided many good solutions in the field of operation and competence of social work centres as well as courts, and in particular the red thread of the code of protection for vulnerable children. The law clearly set out the urgency of the child’s abduction when the child’s grave risk has been demonstrated and, last but not least, the principle has been included that corporal punishment and degrading treatment of children is unacceptable, raising huge amounts of dust and negative criticism. Dear Mr President of the Government, in the Desus Group we are horrifyingly following family tragedies that can be said to occur almost daily, unfortunately some end in death. That's why I'm asking you: What measures will this government take to ensure that such tragedies will no longer occur and that institutions will also act in a timely and appropriate manner for these purposes?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u35	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Mr Wilfan. Yes, not only in Desus, I am sure that in all the parties in Parliament, and in all the country with sadness, with horror, in fact with pain, we all follow these forms of violence against vulnerable groups of violence in the family, against children, even against infants. You can't believe what happens to women. Of course, the government is working to improve the situation here, to protect these vulnerable groups, but let me say something first. The whole society will have to change, make further changes. [[…]] He rules absolutely. I will respond, we are preparing legal changes, we are encouraging the police, we are informing education, education is extremely important from kindergarten, school, to be educated in a spirit of respectability, therefore humanity. But something is very important, I think, sometimes a neighbor, a friend, a acquaintance would rather look a little away than get involved in some emerging conflict when he detects a problem to help or inform someone. I think we're all going to have to do more individually, be more careful, be more active. For we are all as responsible as men, if there is a conflict in our neighborhood, but close to us we knew that it was already being prepared and that it was already happening, and then there is some terrible consequence. So that's the first one. I know the police are trying to do everything they can to step up their help to these victims, potential victims, whatever. Of course, we have already adopted the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence in 2008. This was the first step to prevent this from being more effective, but we now have at the government in dealing with the amendment of this law in the final phase. Even before the holidays, so now, we will deal with this in the government and send it to the National Assembly. This law will be important because it will extend the definition of family members, which means protecting more than one person. We will expand the definition of domestic violence, for example, we will already treat the threat as some kind of violence, which will mean more prevention, action by state authorities at this level. We will further define prevention, measures regarding physical violence, sexual violence, psychological violence, economic violence. In short, we need to move forward here. We're going to add a new form of family violence, so-called stalking, which is also a kind of approximation to what can lead to violence. This is also a ban on corporal punishment of children. It is an emphasized duty to report the suspicion of violence against children. A restriction on the exposure of children or their personal data to the public is added. The courts will be given special powers and, as you yourself have found, the damage has been done since the new family code was not adopted. Here too, the newly introduced family code, which the Government is proposing, will have to accept, that this duty of the State to protect children, the principle of the best measure and so on and other forms that help these vulnerable groups to be particularly protected, to be introduced at this level and then more easily implemented in practice. Of course, we all want more involved, even more sensitized centres for social work, employees there, even though they have hard work, we need to be aware of it, it is not easy for them to face crisis situations, problems, pain every day. The police, other competent authorities, we'll all do more. I assure both ministers and ministers that I also place this on the heart to do even more within the limits of their competence where they are responsible. In fact, I call on all citizens and citizens to make every one of us who perceives any possibility of violence or even domestic violence, anywhere in the neighborhood, anywhere he sees it, to do something about it. If he cannot do so himself, he may also help to act by word, by acting, by informing the competent authorities. Surely, however, as I have said, with these legislative measures, the Government will do everything at the level of the competent authorities in the future to significantly limit the possibility of such violence and to prevent these horrors, which have unfortunately already occurred too many times in Slovenia and are still happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u37	Mr. Peter Wilphan, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u38	I'll be brief. Thanks again for saying that. We in the Desus Group, of course, advocate the view that the protection and protection of children against violence is of course a priority, which must be a priority of course and of this government and of every Slovenian government. Of course, I am pleased that you have confirmed this with this answer and that you are of the same opinion. What I'm curious about is: Have you, in preparing all these measures that you have talked about, which are necessary and also good, anticipated what kind of hands? Is there any timetable for when these measures could be taken so that, of course, they could come into force as soon as possible? In the end, of course, I would like to join this appeal or call of yours, because I think it is right that many times we talk about it, that we invite all citizens and citizens, that they do not close their ears, that they do not close their eyes, that they listen, that they listen, and if we hear and see anything, and that we also see the slightest suspicion of possible violence in our neighborhood, of course, especially violence against children, that we should say that we declare it, or whatever we say, because our children deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u39	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Both of the laws I have mentioned, which will contribute significantly to the further prevention and limitation of this violence in the family against vulnerable groups, will be adopted this year. As I said, one is already in the process, the government will send him to the National Assembly in July, and the other will be sent immediately in autumn. But I think, given what we can all figure out together, I believe that there are no differences here between all of us, let's do one more thing. At the time of the campaign, when we discuss these laws, when we actually touch on these problems, you will be in the National Assembly, and the public debate will be that we are already there actively raising awareness of the public, the citizens, what measures are being prepared and what people can do themselves, and how they can give even more attention in schools. In short, there's no excuse to wait for some hands. Today and tomorrow, every day, anyone can do something in this direction. I think that if we strengthen this atmosphere in the State, we will be better off, children, women, when they are more vulnerable groups and remain better protected. And that is, and will remain the priority of this government, and I believe that any future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u41	To the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar, I thank you for your answers. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mrs Eva Irgle, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, distinguished Madam Minister! First, let me say that I am going to raise a similar substantive question to the one before me before the President of the Government, Mr Peter Wilfan, but first, let me say that I am sorry to say that when we speak at the meetings of the Commission on Petitions and on human rights and one possibility, it is precisely these issues, when we also remind them of the actions of the Centres for Social Work, that these meetings are unfortunately obstructed. So much for how words fit in with action. See, Madam Minister, the public has recently been shaken by stories related to the actions and decisions of the Centres for Social Work, in particular in the area of family policy. There is much talk of domestic violence, or powerless children, where the social work centers do not do their work, unfortunately, all too often as they should. If we look only at the cases of the Korean boys, we have dealt with this case several times at the Commission's meeting on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, and I must say here that it is shameful that you have not taken the time to come to the meeting of the Commission and explain some of the actions that have taken place within the Centre for Social Work. At the same time, I should like to point out that we have also discussed on several occasions on the Commission the very functioning of social work centres, how you, as a minister, will reorganise this system of social centres, and you did not think it worth coming to this meeting of the Commission and explaining your position. As it often does not seem worthy of coalition groups to attend the session of the Commission. But if we look at the case of the Korean boys, the abduction of the child was illegal, as confirmed by the administrative court. The Ombudsman also reiterated at the Commission's meeting that the way in which children were taken from their parents was inappropriate. They were constitutional and human rights violations. Finally, 14 days ago, the Administrative Inspectorate, in its control, found multiple human rights violations in the process. In such a brutal way, Madam Minister, it can be, and even then it is questionable, but it can only be taken away if their lives and health are at risk. According to all the documents, and also the statements made at the closed session of the Commission, that was not why. You are covering the area, including the conduct and functioning of social work centres, which is why, Madam Minister, you are objectively responsible for their irregularities and mistakes. The Minister not only bears subjective responsibilities, but also bears objective responsibility. That's why I'm asking you: Will you, as Minister, finally resign, in view of everything that the Administrative Inspectorate has said now, since you have recently covered and assisted in illegal procedures and violations of human rights for both parents and both boys? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u43	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you for the question, Mrs. Eva Irgle. I will try to answer, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have received a question: Minister responsible for work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities I will ask about the functioning of social work centres in the field of the implementation of family policy. Social work centres are institutions with implementing powers. They carry out two sets, in particular they decide on material rights and the other set, they work directly with families. As far as material rights are concerned, they decide on the parental allowance, on the birth of a child, on the child's allowance, on the allowance for a large family, on the allowance for the care of the child, on the partial payment for lost income. This is provided for in the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. On the other hand, they also make decisions under the Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts concerning maternity benefits, that is, parenting as such, that is, maternity protection. On the other hand, they are directly responsible for working with families, where they are responsible, differences in the Social Protection Act help families for home, help families for home, social services are implemented. For example, if we look at the number of such aids at home – they carried out on average between 2010 and 2015 a thousand and 130 such measures, aid for home, interviews on treatment – they were on average between 2010 and 2015 2 thousand 471. It is then important that they also have competence under the Law on the Prevention of Violence in the Family, where they are primarily in line with the formation of a multidisciplinary team, such multidisciplinary teams were on average in 2010 and 2015 443, and have the power to produce aid, if any, on average 915 per year between 2010 and 2015. They shall also have the power to implement measures under the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, where they conduct administrative procedures for the protection of children, so that they may take measures to protect the child's benefits, where the child is taken away and placed in one of the forms of institutional protection, nursing or institution. The withdrawals in 2010 were 35, 2011 47, 2012 45, 2013 48, 2014 38 and 2015 32. They also decide on placement in foster care, for example, the number of decisions on post-ZUP placements was on average between 2004 and 2015 139 years, the number of decisions on abortion, similar to 141 on average between 2004 and 2015. On average, they also signed 803 annexes to contracts for the implementation of fostering activities. The Centre for Social Work must always, but it is not the institution itself, in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence and on the basis of this Act, adopted in 2008, also many regulations set out the way in which all public institutions and protocols should be reported. And it should be stressed that every body, or every individual, as far as they know about violence, especially against the child, must also make this known. So that the operating protocols between the police, between health care institutions, educational institutions; because kindergartens are the ones that, of course, have to – the centre for social work in accordance with their own procedures – must respond immediately if any suspicion of child abuse is to be addressed. As far as social work centres are concerned, they are therefore independent in the conduct of their procedures and must certainly act in accordance with the law. As far as the case of the Korean boys is concerned, I will repeat something that has already been said many times on the committee that procedures are open, that they run, that no one has been legally completed. 15. 6. We had more than 13 hours of debate on this subject. Above all, it is important that data from the ongoing procedures concerning an individual in relation to the National Assembly and Members be protected more than any other State secret where Members have the right to look into and act with due diligence. In this case, why we are not on the committee is because we must not give this information because it is personal data of individuals. And especially when it comes to children, it seems to me that adults decide what they will say and how they will mark these children is unacceptable. And I don't want any part of this. However, he is always a competent representative [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u45	Mrs. Eva Irgle, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. See, Madam Minister, first of all, you did not come to the session of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, not because you wanted to protect and work for children, but because you wanted to protect yourself exclusively, especially against interpretation. And a second time. It is not true that representatives of the Ministry come to all meetings of the Commission. Last time we talked about this case, they were gone. There was no one here. And that was also pointed out by a well-known psychoanalyst, Mr. Borut Pogačnik. Let's take a look at his debate with this committee, and I think it would be very good for your other actions. See, Madam Minister, the interpretation we have put against you in the SDS, despite your survival, has shown that you have very weak support even in coalition lines. Your coalition partner within the government, Desus, has supported our interpretation because they believe you are objectively responsible for procedures that have gone wrong within the case of the Korean boys. And I, Madam Secretary, have not asked you about the tasks and work of social work centres. That wasn't my question. And I have a feeling that you don't even listen when someone asks you a question, but you simply read what they write to you at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Now you've read to me what works of social work centers are. That wasn't my question. My question was clear – When do you plan to take responsibility? Because you are objectively responsible for the situation raised by the Administrative Court, the Administrative Inspectorate, even the Ombudsman, if you want, although I think you should be even more careful about this case. And so once again, I'm asking you, what are the tasks of the social work center, and I know that, but I'm asking you: When do you intend to take responsibility for the case of the Korean boys? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u47	Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Again, you have asked me a question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you have asked me: “The Minister responsible for work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities, I will ask about the functioning of social work centres in the field of the implementation of family policy.” I have explained to you, according to my best chances, what are the competences of the Centre for Social Work, what they are doing, in these five minutes that I have at my disposal. About the story of the Korean boys you had 13 hours and you asked me multiple times the same thing and I answered many times the same thing. If we look at the story, even if you're talking on the board, that the contacts aren't fixed, that's misleading, I'm not going to say that they're not even lies. And that's a lot. Because this is about the procedures that are running, I don't want to talk about it. If we are specific, it should also be said that the Ombudsman has looked at and has identified the reasons for the abduction of children as valid. You're saying something else, but it's usually like that. And I will, in accordance with my responsibilities and duties, take part in this, try to explain when it is well-intentioned. But when it comes only to discredit, to destruction, to maliciously, I do not want to go beyond what is my duty, of course, because I appreciate you as a Member and because you are a representative of the Slovenian people, I intend to continue to do so. More than that, I'm going to define myself to every single thing that's been said, one way or another, in this story. That the Administrative Inspectorate has found that human rights have been violated — please find me this sentence. And I could do a lot of things with you, but I don't want to because it doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u49	Dr. You have the floor to ask the Minister for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, the House of Honor! Unlike many before me, I would not like to abuse the institution of the question of the Member, I would like to talk to the Minister about the things I have announced, beyond the perceptions of the facts. Mr Prime Minister said in some truly tragic, sad events recently in this session that we should all work even more, I think we should work more discreetly. And this is also one of the main tasks of the opposition to warn the executive branch. It is not easy to quote Mr Cerar again, and often those who are in the executive branch of power because of the pace of the day's work or because of your views on what the social state is supposed to be do not act as we do in the opposition. With Mrs Kopačeva, a fellow resident, we have argued several times on this subject, which is also an integral part of Parliament – the opening of conflicts. In fact, my question stems from a meeting of the parent working body dealing with employment and employment issues that happened a good month ago in Maribor, where we were from 17, as far as this commission is concerned, only 7, I was the only one from the opposition, which should have been discussed already. We went to the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia in Maribor, where we dealt with the situation, employment, unemployment, employment in our region. There, of course, I was marked by the coalition, unfortunately there was no one with your party except the secretary of state, if you consider it a quota, as some kind of irreparable pessimist. Of course, the current state of affairs was very optimistic, partly linked to economic trends, particularly with better export trends. But the fact is, in fact, three quarters of the so-called active employment policies, as it is called, form public works. And I find it difficult to take this as an active employment policy, especially since this institution of public works, their original purpose to a large extent, I must say, has been born. They do not guarantee in at least one part that someone would then at least get a job in the medium term. And my question is: When are we really going to start dealing with an active employment policy? You can tell me this in the case of the region from which I come, and I think it is essential that we discuss this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u51	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Mr. Duck, thank you for asking. Nevertheless, at the outset, it is good news that we have fewer than 100,000 unemployed at this time, and we have waited a long time for this number, last of which was in September 2010. It is important, however, that during the first half of the year, there were significantly more people than last year in the same period, since the same periods need to be compared because the dynamics are cyclical, we know how they take place during the year with regard to employment, that more than 9% were more jobs in the first half of the year. Even if we look comparatively at the decline since June 2016, in Slovenia unemployment has on average decreased by 9.5% and in Maribor the area covered by Maribor’s regional service has decreased by 10.7, which is, of course, good because there is a higher unemployment rate. We know that the problem is mainly in the length of unemployment, the problem of prolonging us, that we have a problem with the long-term unemployed. In young people, the rate of unemployment is decreasing even faster than in others. The problem remains mainly with the low-educated and the elderly, which is also a priority, in addition to young people, in the operational programme. This year, if we look at it, there is a total of €93.8 million in active employment policy, of which €53 million is European funding, $40.8 million being an integrated budget. You have highlighted public works; public works of these 93.8 million amount to 37.5 million, so it is difficult to say three quarters that this is an active employment policy, but we have fought very hard and we also focus more and more on these vulnerable, and we have also sharpened who can be involved in public works. Indeed, we must be aware that these are now long-standing people from the labour market who have not been involved for a long time and, of course, one year of employment and an increase in the possibility of later integration into other jobs. That is why we have also prevented us from going through more than a year to engage in public works because these funds are needed, and these are also integral funds, most of the other funds are European funds, only public works are paid with integral resources. If we look at others, this year, especially in the middle of the year, active employment policy measures have only been fully launched from a new financial perspective, so that we have training and education, i.e. the 16 million euro measure, the employment incentives are foreseen for €39.3 million. If we look only for Maribor and the surrounding area, almost one fifth of all funds are foreseen this year, i.e. 18 million euros due to the unemployment rate which is higher than elsewhere. And even if we look, for example, at unemployment in Maribor for public works, because it is a higher rate, the municipality and others have only 15% to pay, and 85% of the payments are guaranteed by us. By the end of May 2016, when we look at Maribor’s field service, this policy included a thousand 260 unemployed people, of which 102 were training and education measures, 282 were a programme to promote youth employment, i.e. the first challenge, these are new jobs for the indefinite time of young people, and 876 were public works. At the same time, it is very important that we try to play a greater role in local events and regions through new active employment policy programmes, so that they can adapt the programmes to the needs of their environment. It is important, for example, that the training programmes for deficient professions, for example in Maribor, are very much in demand for welders, pipes and others to respond to, together with employers of this training programme, and that, of course, those unemployed persons who are willing to retrain so that we also allow them new jobs. Most of the planned funds are also in the second half of 2016, and a number of programmes are in preparation because there is a new financial perspective. However, the funds of the regional development programme should also be counted, where the objective is also to increase the development potential of the region, which, of course, also indirectly affect employment opportunities in the region. The fact is, of course, that jobs, the revitalisation of Maribor and even wider Slovenia, where this is necessary, is crucial, so active employment policy cannot in itself [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u53	Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor to request a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you for your input, Madam Secretary. Of course, a large majority or everything you've said, I know because I have a professional deformation of an analyst. There at that meeting, your secretary of state, your colleague Wolf, and I agreed that it was mostly something we call a fire-fighting measure, which, of course, is necessary. Of course, it is also encouraging that the number of unemployment is declining. But, you know, I'm in the opposition, and here I have to set up an amp, you'd probably react the same to my position. Just one question is how statistics like this are cleaned. People in Maribor called me: “In the institution they make me work through the agency, even though I know they are bad payers.” Not just once. In fact, in the institution itself, we were told frankly that they were going to burn. That usually one professional worker has 700, 800 unemployed people to deal with, which means he can come twice, three times a year. This is not an active employment policy. And when I said, well, now I'm here, let us tell you how many additional people we'd need, because it's imperative that this portfolio of ZUJF, if I put it that way, is now the absent president of the commission said, yes, yes, but so we can't talk, we'll rationalize up and down. And I looked at the faces of those men who almost fell together. And these are some things we have to deal with. At the same time, we both know, as an analytical sociologist, that data should be viewed in a longer period of time. One such very unpleasant information is that the inability to pay in our region has decreased by one quarter in the past year. And among these payers were mostly micro and small businesses. After a domestic half-forced espection. And that's how you have to look at the whole picture. And I would like to answer that we will really go through an active employment policy, including with additional [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u55	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam President. As part of the employment restrictions in the wider public administration, we have always tried to exempt the social work centres from this trend as much as possible. Unfortunately, it didn't go completely. However, the institution was also important with European funds to complement its activity, if we look at it, we have a youth advisor in particular, right in the context of working with young people and being more informed, they approach in a different way. And of course, this is, in addition to 700 or more than 700 employees through public funds, we also have something through European funds, where we try to complement the euro. Such activity, which is also paid by European funds, is our means, but in a different way. In short, the institution has also adopted in the past the doctrine of working with unemployed persons, where it is similar to other institutions, in exactly what way the category of unemployed persons must be addressed, in what time period a conversation is needed for which group of people. However, it is a fact that, of course, 700 people have a single consultant, somewhere more, it will be difficult to work very actively and that it will actually be very important to do this triangular work, which is also clearly stated in the doctrine, that, of course, you focus on those who, according to the basic characteristics, can be those who will have greater difficulties in finding a job and that you will find them in time and work more actively with them. Even now, in the framework of the Labour Market Regulation Act, which was adopted, I think in 2010, concessions are also granted for the provision of labour market services, where there are concerns, if I say so, outsourcane, because it was simply not possible for all employment institutions to do so. By doing so, we have tried to reduce this negative influence a little bit. With regard to active employment policy measures, a number of analyses have been carried out, evaluation, because we, including sociologists, put much on these evaluations, and show that, of course, it is not as often as it creates the impression that we are throwing money out the window. This is best shown by the proportion of those involved who are subsequently employed. We have the comparability of our actions if you compare with other European countries, at a high level, for example, the Youth Guarantees – the European Commission has praised our actions. And the other thing is, maybe the OECD is doing a full analysis of us now, and I'm the forerunner, if I say so, I've seen it before, but by the end of the summer, that's connecting, bringing people closer to work, to local labour markets. This analysis will also be public and will also present results that are also interesting from the point of view of the operation of the institution, connectivity [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u57	Dr. Franc Trček, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. And somehow the minister herself admitted that there are problems in this department, that we need more people, that we need more knowledge. I remembered when I listened to you when I went to Paris at the beginning of 2014 to the OECD, I requested a visit from their experts because I was just discussing the employment of young people, and I was surprised to see that the Slovenian Parliamentarian wanted something else, more our people, because they were not used to it, and also partly OECD experts. Now from all of this, it's often called a new perspective, an old perspective, the OECD, this doctrine, that doctrine. The man and also the MP on the ground, and also my beloved dear Styrians, are interested in a lot of these big words, in their own words, we would like to have chess if they are without him, and some individualized treatment in the institution, which is what some societies do that we would like to compare with. And that's why I think I need to open this debate. Of course, this is not a waste of money, but we agree with the Minister here, and given the political arrangement in this House, I could be the one that could be the biggest pusher, because we are probably relatively ideologically close to each other, but I will not. In fact, there is a fact that we have to face the problem seriously. And a problem that, of course, also interferes with some economic policy that we are not talking about. The problem that prevents our – now Mr Restoration is not in there – smart specialisation strategy. And if we touch the congregations now, without some serious reform of local self-government, which is obviously not going to happen in this mandate, let us pour ourselves some pure wine, the municipalities have no money to finance employment. Maybe some change up and down there. And it will have to be taken seriously because, most of all, the ladies working in this stressful area are aware of this. We have a lot of problems with the employment of young people, we have a lot of problems with the elderly who are long-term unemployed with lower education, we have a problem with something that you can do more than I can because you come from this sub-sector, unemployable. What are we gonna do about it? With these measures, which we are currently implementing, we are not doing enough, so I propose that we hold a debate and also start to have a concrete discussion, on measures, on people, on money, where we will take it, how we will measure it, and we will start to take it seriously both in Maribor and elsewhere, but not to read how the Government 2018 will reduce the number of deproviligated regions by half. Finally, exports and added value in Slovenia are largely [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u59	Dr. Franc Trček, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 13 July 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Erika Dekleva, you have the floor to ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister Irena Majcen, I am sure that you are aware that in the beginning of June there was an unbearable smell of fish in the Pied Piper caves. The reason for this was probably the fertilization around the city. People at the time rightly wondered whether all of this had a bearing on the quality of water. This, however, was denied by Kovot’s director. However, despite this fact, it is likely that a solution will have to be found for the smell and pollution of the Beer River, as this has become more permanent in recent years than an exception. However, the problem is elsewhere. Today, I would like to point out above all the great dissuasiveness of the competent services, because no one went to the field as soon as it happened, everyone was just putting the responsibility on each other. For these reasons, I would like a concrete answer regarding the competence of inspection services in such cases. I also want to know: How does the Ministry of Environment and Space deal with similar applications, and what are the measures, since I do not expect such things to happen for the first time? But above all, I want to know: Why wasn't there an immediate reaction in time? Thus, it could be sampled in time, and this sampling would then also produce results as to exactly what was spilled in the fields and who was responsible. But we are talking about air pollution, soil, water, groundwater, so of course we cannot ignore such things. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u61	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members, honourable Members, Mrs Erika Deklava! In my response, in the first part, I will turn to our inspection or to our jurisdiction. In the second part, however, I would like to tell you that agricultural land is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I'm an agronomist myself, so I don't find it hard to tell if we're spilling something on fields or meadows and it's got a strong smell, it's manure or manure, it can't be another. Why this is actually happening late in the municipality of Postojna, surely the answer will be prepared elsewhere. However, I can ensure that, by our Ministry of Cohesion, we also co-finance the construction of a cleaning plant in both the municipality of Pivka and the municipality of Postojna. Also in dividing the concession from the Postojna Cave, we provide financial resources for the construction of the sewage system and possible construction of individual cleaning units by home. Our concern, as you yourself have mentioned, is a clean environment, clean water, so we are committed not only to concern but also to financial resources. If I say this a little more professionally now, I can say that our inspection for the environment and nature has the power to act under Article 157 of the Environmental Protection Act and Articles 175 and 176 of the Water Act. However, in the case of environmental damage, Article 27 of the Environmental Protection Act states that an environmental accident agent must immediately inform the notification authority established by the rules on protection against natural and other disasters and take those necessary measures to reduce the harmful effects on the environment. The Water Act, in Article 96, also provides that in the event of an emergency in the event of a natural disaster due to the harmful operation of water or emergency pollution by the competent service and the authorities shall act in such a way as to minimise the risk of water quality and damage to water and coastal land, water and other infrastructure, other water facilities and installations to the greatest extent possible to maintain the hydromorphological conditions of water and coastal land. Since you mentioned the deaths of fish, it should be said that the Regulation on rules of procedure for action at the time of the death of fish was adopted under the Act on freshwater fishing. This law provides in Article 3 that anyone who notices or learns of the death of fish shall, in accordance with the law governing the protection against natural and other accidents and the law governing freshwater fishing, inform the regional information centre of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue, which is the Ministry of Defence. Thus, we see that coordination is also necessary in all these procedures between the ministries in question, which means that fisheries management, fisheries inspection or the operator of the mandatory public economic service of monitoring the sudden pollution of water under the water regulations must find fish deaths on the spot, so they must come to the ground and find out which of the possible causes caused that reaction. In accordance with the Drinking Water Regulation, drinking water managers are responsible for drinking water supply. As you yourself mentioned, plumbers found that their water supply was impeccable. I agree, however, that the integration of inspection services is even more important in the follow-up, and it is even more important that people also act responsibly on agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u63	Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor to ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! First of all, I find it kind of awkward to speak in this national assembly today, because if we all stood in the memory of the Srebrenica victims with the greatest respect, I have to say that something has greatly interfered with the introductory part. When the president of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, listed all crimes, mass crimes and genocides, he released Slovenia. 600 graves lie in Slovenia, 100,000 people killed in genocide after World War II, lying on them, not even mentioned by word, and they are remembered and honored. Why am I bringing this up? Not only because of them, but also because history, if we don't learn anything from it, likes to repeat. Srebrenica and seas in Slovenia with the Huda Cave, where the living walled girls were, have a common point: both were made by fans of the red star. And what did history say last year? That the rules should not be violated. If we did not illegally commit 100,000 people to the territory of the European Union last year, then there would be many crimes, many attempted crimes and probably, I am sure, brexit would never have succeeded. But apparently, some of them didn't learn anything from it. The tragedy that marked Slovenia two weeks ago was the murder of a police officer in the performance of his official duty. Any assault on a police officer, especially a murder, is also a crime against the state. It therefore requires that it be fully explained, including the circumstances of how this could have occurred. I never asked the police for data on what happened, which then told me they wouldn't give it to me. I requested them from the Ministry. And, of course, it's not just about the release of the name and surname. And I firmly believe that no criminal's name and name can protect any personal data law. Especially if he's already dead because he raised his hand himself. But also because of one other circumstance, which was completely silenced, I have repeatedly warned about it. How could this man even be here? If he was refused because he did not have the right papers, he should not be in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, but at least move freely, and armed to a surface with a long blade as we could read. On the other hand, if rejected for security reasons in Croatia, we should immediately load it onto the train and send it back from where it came from. In no case should you move on your own in Slovenia, free as it happened. If the law were respected, this crime would not have occurred, so I ask you, Madam Minister: What was the truth about this event? How is this man here? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u65	Before I put my word forward, I will react to that first part, just as you have only violated the question of the mission, thousands of times or many times I have explained my position on this issue. What happened in Slovenia was post-war killings. postwar killings are crimes against humanity, not genocide. You commit genocide against another ethnic community. And this is the basic assumption that we can talk about this, so please don't impose any more burden on us than we can bear. But it's a pathetic matter, which is why I do not allow myself to put such matters in the Slovenian context. Genocide and crimes against humanity, we have two categories, they're both regrettable, they're valuable, they're not the same. I would therefore ask that, with such matters as a reaction to the quintile act and a memorial act in this National Assembly, it is no longer present, nor will I, I will say, media, as you have pointed it out today on the basis of what has been said. Now I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Member Grimes! I think that we have already talked a lot about both the Schengen area and migration in the past, so I do not think that it is necessary to reiterate the fact that Slovenia has not illegally allowed anyone into the territory of the European Union. This is not possible, last but not least, given that we do not protect the external borders of the European Union, so migrants do not enter the European Union beyond our borders. This is your first false claim. However, as regards the continuation of your question, I must first say that you have not hit it either in fact or in the legal sense or you are making the wrong claim. The Ministry of the Interior did not reveal any information at all. The only reason not to publish the name of the perpetrator is to protect personal data. The police never, when communicating to the public, transmit the data of the perpetrators in terms of the transmission of their personal data, i.e. names, surnames. If you remember, we didn't report the names of the perpetrators last year, not even last year, nor before the tragic death of a police officer, when we also lost two police officers in performing police duties. However, immediately after this event, police officers began to exercise their powers to verify the identity of the perpetrator. It was found that it was a 22-year-old German citizen, a mental patient who had been treated for many years and had also been self-destructive in the past, often also on the run, so it is quite clear that I must also disappoint you that the links between the migration discourse and the event are not here that this connection has been totally forced, given that this person was born in Germany and that his father was born in Germany. We have also not received any information from foreign security authorities that the perpetrator would be treated for any crime or that he would be linked in any way to radical groups or terrorist organisations. Neither does the way a cop's service indicate that. It's more than obvious that it's a crime from the blood-defect sphere, and all the data that came out in public afterwards is completely unreal. We know why all this data is coming, but I'm not going to go into this discussion. As regards the implementation of the procedure at the border, you did not correctly hit here either from the point of view of the actual situation. You probably know that our and Croatian police officers are exercising joint border control. When our officers exercise border control at the external Schengen border, i.e. when they leave, they often discover European Union citizens who do not have the necessary documents to cross the border, even more so during the tourist season. In all these cases, police officers shall not allow and send them to the interior of the country for the purpose of obtaining relevant documents or returning to their countries if they are not nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. This procedure was fully in line with national and European legislation. As far as this event is concerned, it was actually about the fact that police officers on the bus line to Zagreb discovered a person who did not have these documents. After verification of identity and citizenship, he followed the procedure, as I just described it. However, the police had no reason to detain or return to their country of origin, since the right to freedom of movement of citizens of the European Union was also applicable in cases where the European Union's citizenship was indisputable. While I am glad that you have clearly recognized the tragedy of this event. I deeply agree with this, but because I do not know where you are going to take this question today, I would, however, take this opportunity to appeal to you that you do not use this tragic event, which is truly tragic, for political purposes. Perhaps I will be a little sentimental if I tell you that if you were two weeks ago at this funeral on Saturday, where your esteemed colleague, Ambassador Zorčič, was also present, and if you were watching your mother and father bury their son, who was an honest and dedicated police officer, you would certainly not be asking this question today in order to attempt to create an impression of the unsuccessful work of the Slovenian police. The Slovenian police are working very well and is a very respected member of the Schengen area, so I think that this direction of discussion is not true; the lack of confidence in the work of the police is not the right course, because, last but not least, we are dealing with one of the most demanding and dangerous professions in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims, are you requesting a supplement to your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u68	Your Honor, I must say that I protest most strongly against the rudeness that the Minister has just afforded. First, I personally expressed my condolences to the family, including the police, on the press conference, and then on the Internet, on the occasion. But the tragedy that has happened, Madam Minister, is, in my opinion, a reflection of two things that you, in the nonsense that you said last year and you still claim, now believe sincerely. Slovenia is not a safe island, but is exposed to all the movements and developments that are currently in place in Europe. Also, by the way, the Balkan route is reopening, 500 to 800 a day is now a frequency again. But if we go back to the case. In this case, it was obviously two. One thing is that it is obviously not the right procedure when it approaches someone to ignore the reality in which we are, because such a crime could not happen. And the other is the general question, you say, "Yes, he was sent back." Yes, but he obviously didn't stick to it, Madam Secretary. This man there armed the next day should never have been. Don't tell me that freedom of movement is that someone with a long blade without valid documents moves around a foreign country. This is not allowed by any European document, and you know it, and you are gravely deceiving the public. If a person does not have the documents in force, he must arrange it as soon as possible or send it to his home country. But that this man was still moving around in the village the next day, scaring people and having an illicit weapon in his possession, we all know that one big knife must not be carried with him, which is a matter of a completely different rank. If this is the case, we can only ask ourselves how many such cases there are and why it is done in such a way that we do not take into account the reality in which we live. And you are personally responsible for this, and I ask that you respond properly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u70	Dear Member, you are again deceiving the Slovenian public with this continuation. This person on the bus was not refused entry into the Republic of Croatia because he would have had a knife with him, but because he did not have the appropriate documents. That's the first thing. However, I see that you are consistently linking this issue of protection of the Schengen area with migration, which is, after all, connected in some way, of course. Even in the past, if we turn back a little bit, we have also agreed many times on certain matters concerning migration. I am still in the position that asylum legislation or the conditions of entry should be tightened, which is not related to this situation, but because you are persistently linking this to the events of the past period, and I will add this because I believe that this is necessary not least because of the fact that we are all familiar with it. It is mixed migration flows, as you yourself have found in past discussions, that in these flows not only people who need international protection travel, but also those who do not come from war zones and also from new facts. We know that the countries around us have considerably exacerbated asylum legislation, including the general conditions for entry into the country. In fact, they copied our solutions, which we proposed, but they were not adopted in this national assembly at the time. If you are, I believe you are not reading Youth, but it was explicitly stated in the Minister of Justice's interview that in that situation the position of the Ministry of Justice has prevailed, that legislation should not be exacerbated in such a way, which will certainly make it difficult for our police to carry out one of the most important tasks. And this is the protection of the Schengen border. This is the task through which the police have gained the great trust of all the countries of the European area or the Schengen area in recent years. Slovenia is surrounded by the European Union Member States themselves, not the first country to enter the Schengen, nor is it the first country to join the European Union. It is quite clear that transit will no longer be if this migration flow is reopened and, as this developments have confirmed in the past period, we do not have the support of coalition partners for fast and efficient procedures or to reject the rate to the country. I personally believe that these changes are necessary, and I myself have pointed out at the meeting of ministers in Brussels that, in fact, the whole of Europe must give a signal that the uncontrolled influx into Europe on the basis of the smuggling models is unacceptable and that Europe must make it clear that, in order to counter this phenomenon, it will also be ready to take more restrictive measures, with the key protection of the external borders of the European Union, i.e. those external borders of the European Union as well as those through which migrants enter Europe at all. As we know, Slovenia does not protect this border, only has an external Schengen border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, please proceed with procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u72	I should certainly talk about this to the National Assembly, because it is obvious that someone without documents must not enter the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or stay here, the Minister does not understand or actually does not understand. It is clear, however, from which direction this person came, but without valid documents, this person should not be allowed to stay for a long time in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and at least to walk in villages armed. Whether she brought it with her, obviously not examined, or whatever happened, there is something very wrong in the proceedings, which unfortunately materialized in the worst possible way — with the tragic death of a murdered policeman. For this reason, I remind you that you are obviously just used to people walking around Slovenia without documents. But they can't. Even if they don't have them, it's clear that they have to sort it out as soon as possible. On the other hand, in a given case, we should have some mechanisms, a procedure that would allow the perception of a problem person to be detected there at the border. However, if this has not been done, at least after the check is carried out, to proceed in a manner that also protects the policeman who carries it out. All of this must be established as a mechanism of the institution you run. This is the Ministry of the Interior. And within this institution, all the services they make up, including the police. Once again, I stress that you are personally responsible. Apparently, it's as if we're some safe island, that everything is in the best order, that everything is what it used to be, and it's not. I'm sorry. And that's why it happened. And it happened because obviously the rules weren't respected. And here's the parallel to last year's, which is what you consistently deny. That is why, Madam Minister, it is good to talk about this, because one thing was highlighted yesterday when the talk was about the biggest government party: morality, ethics and responsibility. I have to say, I miss her terribly with this government. This calls for serious discussion so that these things do not happen again. From what I've heard, I've been talking to people at the border a little bit, there are cases where people walk around there a little bit and walk around without documents, because they've been rejected, and there's something else. This can't be happening. It is necessary, Madam Minister, to respect the laws consistently, because it is essential for the safety of people, for the safety of all citizens and citizens, for all those who live here, and for the security of the police themselves. And that's your responsibility. Please understand that!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 13 July, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister Zdravko Restoršek, my question this time will not be about economic development and technology, but about the principles of civilization. Pieta, Minister, is a deep respect for all the dead, the foundation of human civilization. It is a value that exalts us over all other living things. It is the respect and memory of the deceased’s personality that a person cultivates according to his beliefs. Therefore, the purpose of the right to a piette is also to protect the deceased’s personality, dignity, and desire that his decisions made during the lifetime of life be respected even after his death. Since then, the unwritten human rule has been that we must respect the will of the last - word deceased. In particular in the countryside, Mr Minister, where home and home are still of a different importance than in cities, different local customs are maintained, where the city has a special reputation for the deceased. The law in force, adopted under a previous social regime in 1984, respects the last will of the deceased. Mr Minister, the proposal for a new law on funeral and burial activities, which the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will discuss and vote in this regular session, will completely undermine the will of the deceased, who would like to lie at home. Your proposal for a law does not, under any circumstances, allow the relatives to fulfill such a desire of the deceased in the event that there is a mortuary cord at the cemetery. In the proposal, you stated that the fifth to the deceased is one of the key principles of the law. The coalition at the Committee on the Economy and the Government did not listen to our arguments for the amendment tabled. Since the provisions of the article on the use of mortuary cords cannot be amended anymore, I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: How will you explain to the citizens that by enforcing the new law you have proposed, they will no longer be able to fulfil the last will of the deceased relatives regarding the way in which they last celebrated? Thank you for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Zdravko Restoršek, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u76	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Member, thank you for the question. At the outset, I would like to point out that we have listened to both the views of the professional public and the views of other stakeholders in the drafting of the new Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities. Unfortunately, however, all the proposals could not be taken into account because they were repeatedly opposed or excluded. We have had to decide on proposals that are consistent with as many stakeholders as possible and which are adequately upgrading and complementing the bill. Article 40 of the bill, which includes provisions on mortuary cords, states in paragraph 4 that a deceased is not allowed to be allowed to remain until the funeral home where the mortuary is prescribed. Such arrangements were harmonised between the ministries, taking into account sanitary hygiene and health conditions. The preservation of the deceased is regulated by Article 13 of the new law, paragraphs 4 and 8, which states: "Where there is no mortuary cord and the deceased is at home before the funeral, preparation, preservation and a word from the deceased shall be done at home. In other cases, the preservation and the final farewell are arranged in the mortuary cords." The proposal for a new law also provides that the preparation of a deceased may be carried out only in the appropriate premises of a health institution or funeral operator or pensioner's homes. At least two editors must participate in the preparation of the deceased. The professional public considers that, in terms of sanitary and health conditions, this is the most appropriate solution. Honourable Member Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group, tabled twice the amendments to the proposal for a new law, on 25 May and 5 July 2016. The amendments of 25 May 2016 include the preparation and storage of the deceased. Your proposals for amendments to Article 13 governing the preparation of the deceased have been fully taken into account and included in the amended draft law of 29 June 2016. Your proposal to amend article 40, which regulates the mortuary cords, is to complete paragraph 4 with the text that if the will of the pensioner or the undertaker of the funeral can the deceased lie at home, he was not supported. This amendment was not supported at the 19th meeting of the Economic Committee of the State on 29 June 2016. I've already explained the reasons for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvat, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for your explanations. We only estimate that now this new law actually interferes with the pathetic feelings of relatives towards the deceased, who are protected by the Constitution within their personality right to mental integrity. The motive for my oral question is also enshrined in the Constitution, Article 82 of the Constitution, which states, inter alia, that a Member has been sent from all the people. I'm not asking the question that things wouldn't be settled in my constituency. They're great in my village. I myself was a member of the construction committee when we built the mortuary cord, and since then these things have actually been arranged at the maximum level of five. Say a word from the dead man. But the New Slovenia Group, which is close to people, has received quite a few phone calls, including letters warning us for example, and such are many in Slovenia, Mr. Minister, where we have you or some place where there is no mortuary cordon, and today there is a normal local way of celebrating from the deceased at home, at home, at home. Now it's probably going to be some kind of shock, some kind of shock to the family. They'll probably get used to it once in a long time. But we're actually going after our assessment of a fifth to the dead. I think all we have to do here is follow the wishes and locally established customs, traditions of citizens and citizens, and not go against their will. So I ask you to consider any amendment to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u80	I must also point out that the exception that would provide that the deceased can be kept at home creates a problem in this direction, making the work of a 24-hour on-call service, which is responsible for any transport from the place of death to the cooling areas of the public service provider or the health service. At the same time, the question arises as to how the will of the deceased should be expressed, whether in writing or orally, that he wants to be at home for the funeral, and who will check whether such will of the deceased has really been expressed. Finally, your proposal also interferes with the concept of a new law. Once again, I must reiterate that article 40 of the bill states that a deceased is not allowed to be allowed to go to a funeral at home where a deathbed is prescribed. But where it's not, this exception is fixed after what I said before. Member of the Commission, I hope that I have been able to give you at least a little answer now, why your addition to Article 40 has not been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ms Marinka Levičar will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Hello, all three ministers and you, colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns the long-term handling of complaints about the granting of state scholarships. Madam Minister, Anja Kopač, we have been warned from the ground that complaints about the denial of the right to a state grant in your ministry are being resolved for two or more years. This is unacceptable and is also not in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, which obliges you to resolve complaints and to send them to those who have submitted them. At the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, you are in violation of these provisions of the ZUP. I want to know: Why is this happening? The Ombudsman also draws attention to the problem of handling these complaints for so long. We received a notification or his reply from Mrs Ivi Kačič, who is so answerable to the Ombudsman: "We are aware that only the backlog of complaints at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is very large. The competent authorities have been alerted for at least two years. We spoke to their representatives again about the problem in mid-January. On the basis of our insistence on further information, we are at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs of 26. 21. 2016 received a written explanation showing that complaints against the child supplement, kindergarten subsidy and scholarships are currently being resolved from 2014. The competent authorities have explained that they can therefore expect a solution to their complaint within two years." The Ombudsman further points out that this problem will also be highlighted in the 2014 annual report. Madam Secretary, I'm interested in: How many current outstanding deficits per area of social protection rights are at second level? What plan do you have for the effective resolution of these backlogs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u84	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Your Honor, thank you for asking. The fact is, we still haven't fixed things the way we want to. But if we look at why it all came to this. Before the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, the Ministry decided as a secondary body on five rights and the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds from thirteen. The increase has therefore increased more than once, with an increase of 20 civil servants in that year, after the Public Finance Balance Act took place and the 20 jobs were not received by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in 2012. Even more. 6 approved in 2012 did not receive, already granted, 6 jobs were cancelled, so the Ministry went with the same number of employees in 2012 as before when it decided on five rights within social security legislation. The situation in April 2014 was such that 9 thousand 500 complaints were pending. In 2013, we received 10 additional jobs, 5 for an indefinite period and 5 for a certain period of time, where they were focused on reducing backlogs. Also an online application, we adapted the information system, so we came from these terrible 9,000 500 backlogs so that December 2014 was unresolved about 4 thousand 200, in January 2016 we had about 3 thousand cases there and it is still quite similar number. We are talking about taking action again, as we had then, that everyone who meets the conditions of the Ministry of Labour will contribute to the resolution of these decisions, because we are aware that so much time in the complaint to people is not decided, unacceptable. But the fact is that with the resources that are very difficult for our employees, if I tell you that there are about 40 people working in social services for the entire area of employment there, only complaints that are far more than most other ministries deal with 8 employees who are qualified to do so, but there are difficult procedures. In addition to the fact that much had been done within the ministry, if they had done nothing, the situation would not have changed, but it was disastrous. But it's still not satisfactory. However, there is also an answer to the amendment of the legislation itself in this area. Just as we have already done a subsidy for kindergartens, for example, when they no longer decide on social work centres in the first degree, but on the basis of a dose of the child supplement, then schools simply put out an account of the amount of the subsidy or the amount of the bill to be paid. This is a major simplification of the system, and this will also change the situation in the future. It is, however, within all these rights, which are, the lags where they decide to take precedence over decision-making, which are provided at the Ministry all the time, as a guide, priority on these urgent, i.e. monetary social assistance, extraordinary financial social assistance and a security allowance. These complaints are given priority and are unfortunately subsequently in areas such as the child supplement and others, but things are not resolved within the time limit set by the Law on Administrative Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Marinka Lefty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I fully understand you and your ministry, and I respect that you've been trying to save those retards. But still, with the state we're in, we can't be satisfied. Given that you have warned that you have already been in the previous government, the government of Alenka Bratušek warned about this problem and received some additional employment, I do not know how much the current government is aware of this and how you have now warned the government that maybe other ministries or whatever help the professional co-workers are, that such backlogs would no longer take place. I can't imagine a student waiting two years to complain about a social scholarship. I can't imagine living in such uncertainty that he can even study if there's a socially endangered family. If we really are a social state, there should be no such backlog. I also appeal to this government to do something to help your ministry, to eliminate these backlogs and that the demands will be resolved in accordance with the ZUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u88	I would just like to thank you for your expressed support and understanding that we can only work together to solve these problems, which are our common problems. However, it is a fact that we are also trying to ensure at the Ministry of Internal Displacement, and there will also be one major action in September, and the aim is to eliminate this by the end of the year, even before the new legislation to eliminate the old backlogs. You also addressed to me the question of how social work centres decide in a timely manner. According to the information I have obtained, there should be no major backlogs, and the problem is, when there are more deposits, this is you at the time of September when there is an outflow. There are some backlogs then, but there are not enough problems in this area as far as decision-making is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Mrs Jernej informed me that Minister Klemenčič had been stuck somewhere in the summer traffic jam and apologized at this point, so I ask that you also define yourself to the way you reply. Here you go, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Well, Minister Klemenčič has been stuck many times, we know that, no. I was going to ask the minister about this kind of jamming. Look, I'm talking about two documents. 26 May 2016, Mandate-voluntary Commission. There is Mr Štefanec, as we have assessed him two years ago or when he has already been appointed to the post of Head of the KPK, the head of the KPK, more or less negative, but his last actions on this committee as well as his last conduct in the document, the assessment of the situation annexed to the last report of the Commission on the prevention of corruption is exceptional, I will just say it, and the correction is as direct as we have been since any of the KPK chiefs. He made the following quite clear on the Commission's mandate. He was told that he had gone into too many shoes, and he replied that he did not want to get into these too many shoes because they were infected with the fungi of illegal activity, which made it very clear that Mr Klemenčič had acted unlawfully. In this report, which is an annex, an assessment of the state of play annexed to the Commission's report on anti-corruption presented one fantastic picture of the government. There are only two ministers here, but still, I think he set you up with a mirror so bad. He wrote: "In 2015 we have witnessed cases where we would expect to meet the government's demand for a more effective fight against corruption in practice as well. For example, the government and its members were directly concerned with the cases of copyright fees and permanent readiness supplements, as the alleged irregularities and integrity violations were also found in relation to government members. Just before the government code of ethics adopted, it has further reinforced the Commission's expectations that the government will take appropriate action and thus consolidate its anti-corruption commitment and consequently its reputation, but we have previously witnessed the distortion of ministers and the vague responses. The government has failed its own integrity test." These are the words of someone representing an independent body, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. I further intended to talk about justice, where its assessments are consistent with what we are talking about at committee meetings. I also intended to ask Mr Klemenčič about this. However, I request an oral response at the next meeting. Vice President, remember, I saw for the first time that there was no one. It's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We've logged in. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Minister! On Thursday, I think we had a constructive debate on how to help students who are essentially completing studies in prebolonic studies, either in higher education or in continuing studies. There was also one, I think, binding decision to look at things and enable the so-called conclusion of the study. I was a little surprised when I looked at one of the news shows at home, where your statement, in which you again pointed out that the deadlines would not be extended. The fact is that in this case, which was the most discussed in Thursday's debate, those who, in accordance with the decisions and instructions of the university, gave assignments and because of the overload of professors are now out of line. The fact is that they are now in some way also outside some closed doors or half-open doors and that they cannot continue to prepare because they do not know what awaits them. For them it will certainly be necessary to find a solution and most likely this one up to 30. 9. will not be feasible given that one of the rectors, by the way, said that most of the professors are already on vacation. Minister, I ask you once again, given the fact that it is now a few days since you have probably made one thought within the Ministry: In what way will you approach the search for solutions to give these students who are now in some way on hold and do not know what will happen to them, some answer that everyone is looking forward to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Minister, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much, chairman. Your Honor in the Chamber, Your Honor! The urgent meeting of the parent committee on Thursday afternoon opened a discussion on how to find solutions from an acute situation in which a number of individuals have failed to complete the study so far within this 12-year period. Of course, the reasons for this are very different. Let me just say that this piece of legislation was adopted in 2004. Of course, the stories of individuals may be very different in different life outcomes. In this spirit, quite a number of those who want to finish up to 30 have come together. 9, that is, until the final legislative deadline of its obligation. As agreed in the Committee's conclusions, we also called on all institutions on Friday to provide both data and, on the other hand, to meet as soon as possible. It is now also announced that a meeting will be held at the Ministry of All Representatives to find not only a section of the situation, but also an appropriate solution for the future. So what is feasible, what is not feasible, what in their competences and responsibilities the institutions are already carrying out, what they can do up to 30. 9 To this end, we will then propose further steps and solutions in line with this discussion today. [[..]] What is important is that we get, in particular, a cut in the number of those who have already fulfilled their obligations up to the level so that they can actually wait for this defence or any other form until the final knowledge check is done by 30. 9 So this is the group 4 and 5, which we have also talked about on the committee, which is actually the subject not only of today’s issue, but of previous questions, whether they actually get all the services and all the support they need within the legislative time frame, given that the law applies to 30. 9. 2016, so until then, as usual, procedures must run and provide all the support. [[..]] It is true that significant problems have arisen also within the procedures of individual institutions, not all of them, but some of them. And that is exactly what we would like to clear up today with all the representatives of the institutions and to determine whether and to what extent the procedures are feasible and, above all, to know that we have been alerting this for some time now, not only at the Ministry, but also within institutions, and that we are aware that there is a great deal of weight in mentoring work on the one hand, and on the other hand at the work of students, students who must complete these obligations. I would also like to point out that the saints, both the Higher Education Council and the Science and Technology Council, have discussed this, and students have been particularly warned about this, including through the website. But directly, those most important information are those coming from individual institutions. Of course, we cannot assume the powers of the institution itself at the Ministry, this is the responsibility of properly carrying out the procedure and dealing with the individual candidate. But, of course, it can't be possible at deck level, but we need to steer as many of these processes as possible, which are currently under way, in the most genuine and also legally-established way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, do you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Minister for Answers. Just enough to make it up to you. True, we all know that the law was passed in 2004, but it must be stressed, and this seems to me to be too often misleading that the last entries were 2008/2009. It is said that these entries should be completed at the time of the so-called Bologna programmes, perhaps earlier. However, we are now talking about these deadlines, and I am glad that solutions are being sought, but I think, and here I also call on the ministry to be careful. We also have students who were already in processing, who had a first review of the tasks, and then they got the answers, "but now it won't work because there are too many of you". In short, when you collect this information, it seems very important to me to obtain it as accurately as possible. In doing so, I would point out something else, because we are talking about the so-called prebolonic studies, and it is certainly also the Ministry's goal that as many people as possible are finally educated, the process of redirecting to the so-called Bologna programmes itself. Most colleges are now turning science masters into Bologna Masters, which is not in the same rank by comparison. It is also a dilemma when it comes to enrolling in a programme where there are essentially no transitions. Because they're kind of passageways. It may also be possible for the Ministry to consider some categories of transitions from one study to another, rather than some re-entry from the beginning, because there is only one change in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much. As regards the entry generation 2008/2009 in accordance with the legislation, the possibility of fulfilling obligations, including undergraduate or any study delay, was sufficiently long enough because of old programmes, i.e. four-year programmes or scientific masters, which were usually one-year programmes or two-year programmes, depending, of course, on the programme or type of study. The law also provided for this, so the last generation could have been enrolled at the time, otherwise they would not have had the opportunity to complete their studies regularly. As for transitions or so-called rules exist for switching between programmes, they already work from the conclusion of most scientific programmes, such as Master's degree programmes, but of course depending on the state of the programme. Some colleges had previously, others later introduced a Bologna transition and therefore had to provide for these transitional periods and at the same time programme transitions. However, NAKVIS, as a national agency, also has the task of providing for the most recent transitions to the relevant rules, i.e. the rules for the transition between programmes. This is also the intention and demand of NAKVIS to ensure appropriate quality at the same time. It's about current knowledge, up-to-date knowledge, it's about renovating programs. Bologna programs have already been renovated in some colleges in the meantime, so this tracking is even more complex. During the period 2004-2016, one of the programmes may have already received two or three renewals. Accordingly, it is also necessary to follow the relevant situation today and to ensure that finalisations, when a transition takes place, are also appropriate and that they also provide an appropriate level not only of education, but also of the current knowledge and fulfilment of the conditions under the programme-accredited scheme and, of course, of the curriculum approved. Now, of course, they're different from those before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Lilliana Kozlovic will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your word. Nicely greeted Minister, all colleagues and colleagues. The public administration for which you are the minister is responsible is extremely important in our society, as it follows the needs of our citizens. However, if it is to follow these needs, it must also adapt and recognize what is necessary in society. From the economy itself, as well as from citizens and abroad, we are reminded that this great organism needs to be adapted and changed. We can do this on the one hand through systemic changes, and on the other hand we can also do this through some measures. Given that we have not followed any systemic changes through the legislative process, I am interested in: Have you, in this period of your ministry, said two years will soon pass, taken measures that follow the concept of lean and more productive public administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Koprivnikar, please, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Thank you, Member of Parliament, for this matter. To be honest, this question has already been drawn up by the SDS Member of the SDS in the previous session, but I am sorry that I would not have answered that, because we believe we have something to show in the field of public administration, although we are not so oriented towards changes in the laws, but we would like to raise what you are asking: the effectiveness of the functioning and the flexibility of the public administration. We have adopted the Public Administration Development Strategy for the period 2015-2020, which has identified 9 clear key objectives, followed by a specific operational programme, an implementation plan setting out carriers and deadlines. We have been working on this plan since our adoption, and we report it regularly to the Government. We have improved the internal organisation at the Ministry, we have changed the work at the Ministry better organised according to the nature of our work, we have fully put in place a project method for all ministry tasks, including legislative projects, we introduce targeted management, we introduce a quality monitoring system according to the CAF model, and we transfer these implementations to other ministries as well. We carried out an assessment of the organisational climate and also assessed the leaders with the so-called 360-degree evaluation to see if the leaders who are the key to success in public administration actually work well. In the field of public procurement, we have introduced mandatory use of electronic auctions, which is mandatory from February 2015. On average, it brings about a 7% reduction in costs. We introduced a statistical application and presented it to the public a few months ago, allowing for a fully transparent and transparent allocation of public funds through public procurement. For the first time, we started a joint public procurement in the field of health, where we already carry out four public contracts: gloves, needles, diapers. Two of them are still getting ready. We have greatly strengthened the number of common public procurements. Let me tell you, in 2014, when I took over the Ministry, there were six joint public contracts, which we are implementing this year. These are the most demanding public procurements. Among the first to implement the European Directive was the amendment of the Public Procurement Act-3, which was adopted as early as December last year and published precisely on the date of April of this year. With it, we increase transparency, simplify procedures, reduce costs and allow what we have always sought – including ways to order innovative services publicly, say advisory services, development services and so on. We have developed an e-catalogue that allows public contracting authorities to use the results of public procurement in a very transparent and simple way, allow for transparency and facilitates the use mainly for contracting entities. We have completed a number of complete e-procurement modules, which we expect will be fully mandatory from January 2018, and four out of five are already being used and tested. With the amendment of legislation to public information, contracts based on de-personalised contracts are now available, so that all citizens can also verify them. We have carried out a functional analysis of the public sector, 240 entities with over 20,000 civil servants. We've made 110 indicators, and that's one powerful tool that we're already using. We have drawn up seven roof measures that each public sector chairman can take into his own hands and immediately begin to improve the organisation of his ministry, the bodies of the composition. We also promote them, and we also use them intensively in our ministry. With the amendment of the Law on State Administration, we have made it possible to centralise information technology and real estate management, which are also two strategic government projects. With the changes prepared to the Wage System and Public Employees Act, we increase flexibility, the linkage between the results of work and actual pay. We have designed the concepts of a competent model, targeted management, quality monitoring of the entire human resources management model, set up a system of a competent centre that will allow us to behave more systematically and significantly more in the long term to the knowledge of public servants. In the Inspectorates, since I am also the head of the inspection board, we have introduced system controls, this year is the second time, we have strengthened cooperation between inspection services, and we have designed an information-sharing information system that will allow for the connectivity and effectiveness of the inspection services. With regard to information technology, the whole project was launched in 2014. In 2015 we carried out a demanding project to build a state-owned computer cloud, which at this time already fills over 60% over six months of work. We have introduced a strategic world for the development of information technology, we have introduced the use of joint building blocks not to repeat developments that are [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u103	Mrs. Lilliana Kozlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you, Minister. You probably didn't make it all the way to the end. There must be a lot more. I wonder if you also have the estimated financial effects of this. Of course, some can give immediate effects and some can give long-term effects. I was wondering if you had that grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you, Member. I'm sorry, I've responded to two of the six areas, so I'm sorry I'm running out of time, but I'd love to tell you what else we've done in this area. By removing administrative obstacles, we have found, based on the external operator's assessment of the European methodology, that in recent years we have provided this country with approximately 364 million annual savings in order to simplify the procedures that we have carried out mainly by linking the bases in the background and automated procedures. Let me say that on the VEM portal to entrepreneurs, we have raised the number of transactions from 300,000 a year to over 2 million in the mandate of this government. And these are also the direct savings we bring to companies. With regard to the state computer cloud and the centralisation of information technology, it is very grave to say that the total cost of state information is estimated at around 100 million per year. In 2014, we spent 84% of this maintenance cost. After completion of the project at the end of 2017, we will spend less than 50 million to maintain, which means that we will have more than 50 million resources left for real development. As regards the costs of centralising real estate management, however, we do not have an accurate assessment of what will happen at the end of the project in 2018. However, already this year we are investing more than a million and a half dollars in renovations directly from the savings we have made through centralisation alone. At the same time, we have already placed a number of organs in premises owned by the country that we have previously renovated, and in this way we have broken leases, which are very expensive for all these bodies. These financial assessments can be submitted at this rate from head to head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor, who is absent. Please define yourself to the way you answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given the Minister's absence, I will propose a written answer within 30 days. The matter is ongoing, and I think it should be resolved during the holidays as well. But it's the next one. Prime Minister Miro Cerar said today that the second track will be built. He's said that several times, and he's confirmed it today. Therefore, a specific company is also established and this company is supposed to be the main contractor, in addition to the company that also owns the railway economy. And now it depends on what the financial structure of this project will be. And this financial structure depends on whether the government acquires private investors or not. We've had a lot of information about this lately. But no matter what, it's the next thing. If this is built by the state, so to speak, in the broadest sense, it is said that the government will give money from the state budget, then such a way of building will have an impact on public finances. As far as deficit is concerned, and probably as far as this public debt is concerned. And it doesn't matter. Given that other institutions are also mentioned, the European Investment Bank, European Union funds, private funds, of course, I am interested in: What's the financial structure like? But if there is no financial structure for this project, of course I am interested: What would be the impact on public finances if the government provided 100% of the funds to build a second track between Divisco and Kopro, if the government provided 75% of the funds from the state budget or from municipal budgets, 50%, 25% or zero? In short, I want this answer from the Minister of Finance, given that I have already mentioned that he is not here within 30 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. You'll get an answer. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go, Mr. Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. I will ask a question about the CETA trade agreement, as I have predicted. My question is this. On Tuesday, 5 July, the European Commission adopted a decision on the competence of the CETA Trade and Investment Agreement. Despite the other forecasts that have occurred, however, it has decided that this is an agreement of mixed competence, which means that it should be co-ordinated by both the EU level and the national parliaments. This is also in line with the views expressed so far by the Republic of Slovenia. However, the Commission still insists that, from a legal point of view, all the areas of the CETA agreement are entirely within the exclusive competence of the European Union, not the Member States, which is contrary to the views of our government. In this context, you yourself, Mr Minister, said that the CETA agreement in the proposed form meant, I quote, "the failure of part of the state's sovereignty". And the Commission is now insisting on this form. So this is my first question, it says: What do you think of the current form of the agreement, and is this about giving up part of our country's sovereignty? Then let's move on. The mixed nature of the agreement, unfortunately, does not yet mean that we will actually democratically decide on it between citizens and citizens of the Member States of the European Union, but it appears that a temporary use provision will enter into force first, which means that as soon as the CETA adoption process at EU level is completed on 18 October, the agreement will enter into force. Only then will he come to the national parliaments. Here's my second question: What does that mean? Are national decision-making just a smoke screen or are we actually going to have any jurisdiction? I am particularly interested in this because there are no envisaged procedures, what will happen if, after this temporary use has entered into force, a Member State does not, however, decide not to accept CETE. Here we can imagine that if the agreement is in force earlier, there may also be lawsuits by various international corporations against the country that would have done so. That's my second question. And then there's the third one. The current form of CETE is an extremely controversial ICS mechanism, according to the ISDS, i.e. this arbitral tribunal where corporations can sue states. This is where I'm interested: What do you think, given that you are also of the opinion that it is a matter of giving up a piece of sovereignty, of the possibility of an advisory referendum on this subject, because this is also the point of Article 3a of the Constitution, which states that if the state is transferring sovereignty to a higher instance, then it is up to the citizens to decide. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u112	Dear Member, thank you for the question! The first two questions are related, so allow me to give a common answer. The proposals for Council conclusions on the signing and provisional application and validation of CETA prepared by the European Commission provide for the signature, provisional application and approval of the entire CETA Agreement. The investment provisions are not exempted for once. The text of the agreement does not fully reflect the mixed nature. In the process of harmonising the texts of the Council's proposals, the representatives of IGRT will take the initiative to achieve such changes as would enable the Republic of Slovenia to sign the agreement, to temporarily apply it and to ratify it later. The first exchange of views in the Council of Europe began on Friday, 8 July on the Committee on Trade Policy. The final text has not yet been drafted. The Republic of Slovenia is not the only Member State with observations and reservations. The projected timescale is extremely short, so we are working on MGRT with full steam. We will have to organise ourselves in such a way that we will review the thousands of 500 pages of the agreement in a very short time. If the text to be signed and provisionally used contains an ICS mechanism, the Republic of Slovenia shall not be able to sign the agreement. The proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia on the above-mentioned proposals for Council decisions will be forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia after consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Whether the Republic of Slovenia will sign an agreement, use it temporarily and confirm it will therefore be decided by the National Assembly. The scope of the provisional application lays down the Council's decision on the provisional application of the Agreement, and Slovenia will therefore, as I mentioned earlier, advocate an appropriate adaptation of this Decision and the provisional application of only those provisions which are traditionally and irrefutable within the exclusive competence of the European Union. On Friday, 8 July, Slovenia proposed that a specific annex to the provisional application decision be drawn up at the first reading of the proposals by the Committee on Trade Policy. This Annex should explicitly include provisions which will not be applied provisionally. As a second solution, it proposed the establishment of a temporary agreement. This is a special agreement that is drawn up from the entire agreement and which contains only those provisions which are within the exclusive competence of the European Union. The views of other countries. Slovenia is not alone in this position, so we do not expect agreement to be reached in the Council on the provisional application of the entire agreement. The provisional application framework shall be established by a decision of the Council on provisional application. Germany, for example, advocates temporary temporary use, as a rule the agreement shall be applied provisionally until the ratification process has been completed. In terms of content, the CETA Agreement is extremely extensive, affecting a number of areas. In addition to the global impacts on the economy, competitiveness and employment, CETA will also have an impact on consumers, businesses, individuals. However, I leave the decision on the consultation referendum to the competent authorities. You must also quote my statement in full. It basically referred to this, but in a broader context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, please, you are requesting a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you for your clarification, Mr. Secretary. I am particularly pleased with your view that Slovenia will not sign the agreement if the ICS mechanism is included. But I'm interested in maybe a little more detail. It says: How will the Government act if the views of the Republic of Slovenia are not adopted at EU level? You said about the ICS mechanism that you'd step down. What about the other stuff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Zdravko Rest, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u116	Most of the comments have not yet been made by the Member States. In general, they advocated that the agreement should in fact reflect a mixed nature for provisional application, limited to provisions under the exclusive competence of the European Union, saying that it should be temporary, which is within the competence of the European Commission. The first written comments are expected to date until Monday 11 July. The compromise proposal of the Presidency will then be drawn up. Belgium has announced that it will not be able to sign the agreement. Hungary has announced serious reservations, Bulgaria and Romania have warned that there is still no equal treatment of all Member States of the European Union with regard to visas, which is a serious problem for them, and I think it must be for us. The Council’s legal service warned that the agreement was still not mixed. The Council's Legal Service has explained that many Member States are unable to implement the whole agreement temporarily due to constitutional provisions. The Council’s legal service also made its first specific comments on the proposals for conclusions. The Council’s legal service also warned that the EU court had not yet decided on opinion 2/15 and that CETA should not prejudice the Court’s opinion. Germany and France expressed their dissatisfaction at the delay in preparing language versions of documents in the languages of the Member States. We will once again exert every effort to thoroughly examine this purified agreement in the very short time available to us, and we will act in accordance with all the things I have predicted so far, in relation to the ICS, in relation to the mixing of the agreement and that the agreement will be fully addressed here in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will ask the Culture Minister, Mr Anton Persak. Here you go, Mr. Rajic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, everyone! Mr. Secretary, I've been informed that you're in a hurry from the meeting, and for the first time, I've felt what it feels like to give it to the Minister of Wind. But to comfort you, this wind is very hot today, so I hope you've survived well. The architectural policy of Slovenia is predicted to see the light of the world soon. During the period 2008-2015, the architecture industry in Slovenia suffered considerable damage due to the economic crisis and the collapse of all major construction companies. Both universities for architecture, Ljubljana and Maribor are educating new architects in the number that exceeds the needs of design, construction and urbanism. She also contributed to the Faculty of Architecture in Graz in Styria. At the same time, the number of individual new buildings that are horribly poor architectures designed by retired designers is increasing by recycling old projects from the catalogues of assembly houses. Now we are in a situation where we have a large number of beautifully educated architects who have no opportunity to get a job in design practice without getting a job in state institutions or in culture. They are existentially dependent on their parents or on their companions. How can they survive if they are both architects? With brilliant knowledge of the phenomenon of construction and accommodation, it will be difficult for them to be able to build a family and create a suitable nest for them if the spouses are architects and architects. A lot of people choose to find work abroad. This means that our country, our culture and our architecture lose them forever. It is highly likely that their descendants will come to their parents ’ land only as seasonal guests. This is just one segment that concerns this young architectural profession. And that's a lot more trouble for the expert. So I want to ask you: How far are you at the Ministry of Culture with the creation and publication of the architecture policy of Slovenia? When will this be published and what key measures to improve the current state of the architectural profession contain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Minister Anton Peršak, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u120	Your Honor, Mr. Member, Your Honor, the President! In accordance with the provisions of the National Programme for Culture, the Ministry of Culture appointed a professional commission in 2014 for the preparation of the architecture policy of Slovenia. The Commission was also appointed by former Minister Juliana Bizjak Mlakar 23. 12. 2015 in the composition of Miha Dešman, Ilka Čerpes, Vlado Krajcar, Alexander Saša Stay as a consultant of the commission, as well as Barbara Žižič from the Ministry and Matevž Čelik, the architect and director of the Museum of Architecture and Design. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 7. 1. 2016 has appointed the Inter-Resort Working Group on Architecture Policy and the Commission has already drawn up a draft architecture policy, which has been named Human Architecture in its sub-title. The draft architecture policy of Slovenia has already been sent to the first or, let's say, prior intersectoral coordination. On the basis of the comments provided for in this coordination, the expert committee reviewed all comments received, taking them into account in drawing up the final draft architecture policy, which is now to be put into public debate, which is to take place for two months. It's from 15th this month to 15th September. Complementarities will be followed on the basis of this public debate and then final cross-cutting coordination. We intend to take note of the proposal and to make it possible to discuss it in the Committee of the National Cultural Assembly, and then, I hope, the proposal can go into government procedure and be adopted. We expect it to be adopted in November 2016, this year. In accordance with the national programmes, the state of Slovenia has committed itself to adopting architectural policy, as I said before, with the aim of improving the culture and quality of stay for all inhabitants of Slovenia. And the draft is designed accordingly. The four main objectives are quality architecture, smart growth, sustainable growth and inclusive architecture. These four objectives also include relevant initiatives by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and projects to be implemented. Among other things, optimisation of studies, then systematic management of public investments, renovation of modern heritage, drafting of the architectural activity law, optimization of administrative procedures, preparation of uniform standards, development of guidelines for public procurement and so on. As we say, we believe that in November architectural policy would be adopted and then a law prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Minister. With Mrs Susane Lepi Šimenko's question, we continue, which is intended for Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go, Mrs. Pretty Chimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, all present, distinguished Minister, welcome! Slovenia is a very unevenly developed country. We have the Central Slovenian region, which is about 140% of the development of Slovenia's average, and we also have regions that do not reach 70% of Slovenia's average. Regional development falls under the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and therefore, Minister-designate, I think it is appropriate for you to do what is possible to reduce these differences across areas. That's why I'm primarily interested in: What will you do to reduce the differences in development throughout Slovenia? If we look at the conduct of this government. We know that the government has signed an agreement with the Municipality of Ljubljana on 300 million for projects over the next two years, i.e. with the municipality, which is already so far above development, over Slovenia's average. I want to know: What will you do for other, peripheral, border areas, what will you do for regions that are substantially below the Slovenian average in terms of development? European funds for the regions in the new financial perspective are no longer available directly, but an agreement between the region and, last but not least, a country on individual co-financing is needed. These arrangements between the regions run very slowly. We know that the regions had to make arrangements by mid-December of the previous year, but that individual discussions on regional projects had barely taken place in June. Otherwise, you replied to one of my questions about the first arrangements for the development of the region that you were trying to sign by the end of 2016. Nevertheless, I estimate that these arrangements run too slowly. I'm specifically interested in: How much money can you under average develop the Podravska region and how far is the agreement with this Podravska region? And I'm also interested in: Does it hold the information that funds for the development of the regions are already occupied, committed or in some way reserved by 2018 and that regions, such as the natural region, are not able to make any promises under this heading by then? I would also remind you of borderline problems in areas such as Haloze. How much money are you going to spend on these areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u123	Minister Zdravko Restoršek, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u124	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Madam Members, thank you very much for the question. I am pleased that I have been given this opportunity to answer your question, which touches on important and pressing issues for one large part of Slovenia. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology does not have a defined quota of European funds for each region this year, as you have already identified. Nor is the quota defined for Podravje. I would like to explain to you the reasons and several proposals for solutions. In the previous programming period, i.e. 2007-2013, regional policy under the European Cohesion Policy had more than €600 million. These were the European Regional Development Fund funds intended to finance regional development programmes. Regional policy had its development priority under the operational programme. The funds were distributed by region on the basis of regional quotas and were taken into account, as you said, the developmental threat of an area or region. For the current programming period, this is the period 2014-2020 and a different solution is in place. Special resources in regional policy are no longer available directly, i.e. in the budget of the Ministry responsible for regional development, but are available in the budgets of the Ministry of Field Affairs through public calls and direct confirmation of operations. The level of funding for co-financing of regional projects for the development of the regions is therefore no longer defined in advance, as the European Cohesion Policy operational programme does not allow for a so-called quota system that would allow indicative allocation of funds for all 12 development regions. Efforts to reduce development differences between regions are linked to the reduction of development differences between the Eastern and Western cohesion regions during this programming period. In doing so, I must point out that, unlike the previous period, infrastructure projects are substantially less supported, which is the next major problem. Greater emphasis is placed on promoting entrepreneurship and maximising the benefits of existing infrastructure projects. How many development projects from the Podrav region will be co-financed under the Eastern Cohesion Region funds will depend, in particular, on two factors: the quality of projects from Podravje that will run on these public calls and, in part, on the ability of regions to coordinate proposed projects, project proposals with individual ministries within the framework of an agreement for the development of the regions. The activities of territorial development dialogue, coordination between the country and the regions are still under way, are intense and difficult. I have to say, we've been running four laps and we're somewhere in the middle of this, given the target. Our wish is to have three development projects in the region, but I cannot provide concrete information at this time. Projects are currently being coordinated in the Podravska region with the following areas: investment in education and training, public research infrastructure and promotion of a supportive environment for social entrepreneurship and nature protection. We want and work to conclude this call with a successful agreement that we will cover all regions, all areas, with particular emphasis on this underdeveloped or less developed part, while I must say that we are aware that we will not be able to solve the whole problem within the framework of the selection between ministries - this is what the government is aware and we are looking for a solution - and come up with additional, including integral means to reduce this difference. We are also looking primarily for the Ministry of Economy in problem areas, Maribor with a wider environment, Prekmurje, Haloze, as you have found, Trbovlje, Hrastnik, Zagorje and Pokhlopje, the potential or potential investors for this area, because we believe that this is the only right way to come to reduce this difference. In this area, too, I believe that a number of important developments will take place by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u125	Susanna Beautiful Šimenka, please choose the word to complete the answer,
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your answer. I'd still like a refill. I'm specifically interested in: Are these funds already fully reserved by 2018 for the development of the regions or are they still available? I'd like a quick answer. However, as regards the problems of border areas, particularly when we talked about the Haloz area in the National Assembly, it was said that in a way such areas would be given one special advantage through the fact that there would be some additional points for individual projects to have specific criteria. I want to know: Are there any projects in this regard, and in what way will you actually promote these border areas? One is Haloze, which we have had here many times, but we know that there are more such areas in Slovenia. And now, let's say one concrete case. A call for co-financing of investments in economic infrastructure for the period 2016-2017 has recently arrived. The announcement was on June 23rd. And the deadline for the broadcast is 25. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into It was issued by your Ministry of Economy. This is, for example, one such project, which is extremely interesting for less developed areas as well. But I wonder why this is actually about such a short period of time, that is, a period of one month. During this time, it is difficult to prepare a good project. On the other hand, the value of an operation of EUR 300,000, including value added tax, is indicated on the one hand, and when read in particular, operations involving at least 25 jobs per million of co-financing funds are placed in the selection process. If this co-financing would mean a minimum million, for example, for individual small municipalities, this is already a concrete investment that is not actually achieving it. But if it's 300 grand, maybe it's more acceptable. Why So Short Hands [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u127	Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you. That I'm answering for a while. The appropriations are not allocated until 2018. I said that territorial dialogue was going on, but we did not agree on everything. We are working to bring the funds that are at the ministries into this regional territorial dialogue in one way or another. But I'm still a moderate optimist. Once again, I do not see the possibility that we will solve all problems only with European funds and that we will have to act as a state as a government with an additional quota. Another time. All the calls made by our ministry can be expected, especially where they relate to this part, with additional points for the underdeveloped areas. The hands are often controversial, including this one. However, in all those calls where things are to be repeated, we are more restrictive to move faster towards the goal. Finally, in the initial phase of the tenders, we will learn how to upgrade them for the next stages. In particular, this call will have a continuation and therefore it is not a restriction of any interest. On the other hand, I must say that this specific invitation to tender is intended for business zones with a well-known investor. The beneficiaries, however, are congregations. No congregation can apply, it can apply, but it cannot be successful if it fails to prove that it has a known investor who will do some economic activity in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u129	Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the minister of finance Dr Dusan Maramor, who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u130	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Given Dr. Marble's absence, I suggest a written answer. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance about the employment of the Banks Claims Management Company, when their 2015 annual report will also be revised. We have witnessed the fact that the Bank Management Company is to prepare a report on business for 2015 to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and, according to the Secretary of State, we have come to the conclusion that the revised annual report is somehow complicated. It is unacceptable to me that we are in July and that such an important institution as the Banks Claims Management Company still does not have a revised, not consolidated, annual report for 2015. On this committee, the Secretary of State also said that the auditors were even considering whether the Bank Claims Management Company should also have a consolidated annual report, which is why the question for the Minister of Finance is: Why is the Bank's Claims Management Company still not having a revised annual report for 2015? What are the reasons? What has the government responsible for this society done so far? I am also interested in the position of the Minister of Finance with regard to the definition of auditors that the Company for Bank Claims Management would also need a consolidated annual report. In particular, in terms of what this means in the case of the capital adequacy of this company. With regard to DUTB, we have been able to read many things over the past period, especially those negative information, problems that this company also has with the transfer of Factor Bank and Probank to this company. Will this hole arise in order to further recapitalise a company of EUR 50 million? I would also point out the decision of the Celje higher court, which decided in favour of T2 that the claims transferred to the DUTB were not adequately secured, i.e. around EUR 120 million. What will this really mean for society? I would also appeal to the Minister of Finance to ensure that the DUB issue is addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and that the Chairman of the Management Board, Mr. Marko Simoniti, is also present, since he has not come as Chairman of the Management Board at this time. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thanks, mag. Mark Pogačnik. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u132	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Ministers, of course Dr. Anja Kopač Dark! According to the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, at the end of March the number of pensioners who have a proportional part of their pension abroad was about 66,000. On average, 215 euro gross pensions were adopted. There were almost 9,000 people with disabilities, an average of 89 euros. The average number of families or widows was 12 thousand 200, at an average rate of 92 euros. Most, over 20,000, are receiving pensions from Germany. In view of the fact that the pension received from abroad is not included in the material price for the acquisition of other rights, such as the security and annual allowance, these pensioners are thus receiving higher other benefits, unlike those granted only in Slovenia and are included in the material price. In the Desus Group we advocate equal treatment of all pensioners, so I am interested, Madam Minister, in: How do you check for foreign pensions? Is there any possibility to set up a single record from which the pension manifests would be accepted from abroad, which would then be taken into account in the calculation of the material censorship for the acquisition of other rights? I want to know: What measures does the Ministry intend to take to ensure equal treatment of all pensioners in the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of which countries they receive their pension from? You may find this question trivial, so I have to say that he's being harassed all the time by pensioners in my constituency, in my constituency. Even though I have already experienced this question in Slovenia, in fact I do not know how to give the right answer. Thank you so much for your help.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u133	Anya Digger Dark, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mr Primož Hainz. The system is established that there is no link, for example, between Slovenian pizza and, for example, German pizza or Croatian, in order to exchange data in terms of the amount of the pension that an individual who worked abroad receives. PPIZ gets information that tells us that he has spent part of his retirement or working life abroad. This information is available to PPIZ. Of course, it is not only up to Slovenia's wishes, but it is necessary in the sense that German pizza would also allow this data, and, of course, because it is personal data, it is not so easy to provide. However, the fact is that when deciding on benefits, for example, to a protective allowance, where in fact the most important issue is the level of pensions, is, although there is no record, because it would be ideal for us to be connected with all the pitfalls; that is, pension insurance institutions throughout Europe or around the world, where people have a part of the age, but still – I think at social work centres look at bank statements. In fact, as you know, all transaction accounts that are banks are taken into account in determining, I think that according to the contract, they have to give these data within three days, and this also affects the dosage. So there is no way that these incomes can be seen anywhere, but of course, reliability would be better if we had this base set up. But it's in place so we can ask people to confirm that height. So that we, as a country, would point out that we want the recipients, if we can see that they have a pension from abroad, if they realize it, that they should then also bring the amount of this pension themselves, which is, of course, worse from this point of view, that people are burdened again with papers, but in terms of fairness, this is also for consideration. So the first part of the answer goes: it's not that there's no way to see it, but of course the system is not that we can say with certainty that we are all those who receive the pension and that we know exactly their height. However, it is not that it is absolutely disregarded. As far as the annual allowance is concerned, it is interesting; the annual allowance granted to pensioners was proportional. Therefore, since PPIZ knows that, for example, someone has reached 30% of the working time abroad, he is therefore entitled to 70% of the annual regression. Of course, the problem is because heights do not know, and we are now thinking that in ZIPRS, because ZIPRS has set classes and the amount of an annual allowance for different classes to be easy, this is a matter of agreement in a coalition, we agree that in ZIPRS for the following year, we should set the amount that those who receive a pension also from abroad would have to bring proof of the amount from abroad of the allowance received in order to ensure that there is no doubt as to how much from abroad, but also there is an annual allowance. It's a matter of thought. However, the fact is that ZPIZ-2, the pension law, only determined the height of the annual allowance, but never were the classes, because the height was alone and all that was connected was decided only by the decision of the ZPIZ. In fact, ZIPRS was the first class to be defined, so I also see the best sense of solution in this area. However, the annual addendum should mention that this chapter is also addressed by the White Paper, which is under public discussion, even with the DUS, we have already started the discussion, their response to our White Paper supports the debate on the role of the annual supplement, in what way, since about 100 million, 94 million, goes annually at this level; therefore, as set out now, what would be the best ratio to long-term care. In short, this is a matter of public discussion, which has also taken place on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. The following is Mr Daniel Krivec, who will ask the question of the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will ask Minister Petra Gasperšič about the fourth development axis, this is a transport link linking Soča and Idrija-Cerkljansko to the Gorenj region and central Slovenia, and in the West it links to neighbouring Italy, already defined in the 2004 Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia and the 2006 Transport Policy Resolution of Slovenia. Already in these two documents, the fourth development axis was presented in the form of the letter Y. Route running from Robič on the Italian border, across Tolmin to Želen, and there it splits into legs across Cerkne and Škofja Loka to Jeprca and legs over Idria to Logatco and our highway cross. At the strategic level, the fourth development axis was also recorded in the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2023 and is also one of the main starting points of the development programmes of the Gorenjska and North-Primorje region. At the operational level, this strategic transport link in the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure was represented by projects of connection between Cerkni and Gorenja village and reconstruction of the section of Bach-Dolenja Trebush-Želin. This project has been successfully completed, except for the part governed by the State Spatial Plan, this is the placement of the tunnel at Dolenja Trebush. However, the procedures of the State Spatial Plan for the installation of the state road between Cerknim and Hotavljavi have been halted unexpectedly and without the right arguments. Due to the strategic importance of the fourth development axis for the development of Soča and Idrija-Cerkljan, I ask the Minister of Infrastructure for the first time: What activities are being carried out to accelerate the works on the fourth development axis? Second: What is the current situation with regard to the spatial location of the state road between Hotavlja and Cerkni and the preparation of the State Spatial Plan by optimizing the North 1 or North 2 variants or, last but not least, by placing a new rational version of the link? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I also thank the honourable Member, Mr Daniel Krivec, for the question raised. And a good greeting to all the other Members and Members! I would like to point out in the introduction that we have never forgotten the fourth development axis, although perhaps it is less talked about than, say, the third development axis. However, I want to ensure that this government, and our ministry, is making every effort to improve road links to these regions, which, I say, are within the meaning of these infrastructure links in a deprived situation. Here are all of these regions mentioned above, which connects to the fourth development axis, is called Central and Early Sočje, Idrija-Cerkljansko, then Koroška region and also to the third development axis in the south – Bela krajina. For all of these areas, I will say, we are making a special effort to make appropriate movements here, as well as on the fourth development axis. First, I would like to go briefly through these projects, which are actually already under way, which are under way. These are the projects, such as the construction of the road through Godovič and the construction project through Hotedršica; the construction permit project and the construction project for the rehabilitation of the hills and walls on the Helicopter Hill; the continuation of the construction activities, i.e. the next phase, on the Želen–Dolenja Trebuš road; the construction permit project and the construction project for the construction of the Tolmin railway; the completion of the construction of the construction plan for the tunnel by Dolenja Trebush; the preparation of a call for the construction project for the rehabilitation of the walls on the Trebi–Sovodnoj road, the completion of the construction of the construction project; the completion of the construction of the construction project for the construction of the construction works. So these are projects that are being implemented in this area and will contribute to improving these links. As regards the preparation of the State Spatial Plan itself for this new road connection, mentioned by you, between Cerknim and Hotavlja, it was true that in 2008 and 2010 two variants were developed with the proposal for the most appropriate variants of the road, that this study in 2008 was the most appropriate proposal for a variant of the south, and then in 2010 another five variants were evaluated, two variants in the north, taking place along the Cerknica Valley and then along the Kopačnica Valley, and a variant of the south, which takes place around the current route of the road with the new tunnel under the Kladjem, and two variants in the Idrijaca Valley, that is Idrijac 1 and Idrijac 2. Then, by the Minister of Infrastructure and Space in 2012, it was proposed to continue the DN process under the North 1 and North 2 variants with possible optimizations and, in view of the documentation produced so far, it is then envisaged that further improvements should be made to the design of the documentation project, with which further improvements should be made to reduce environmental impacts and ensure optimum spatial solutions and more cost-effective implementation, and therefore to continue the preparation of the State Spatial Plan. In short, further optimization is being made of these proposals, on which we would then like to come up with a real proposal on the basis of which the State Spatial Plan will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u140	I thank the Minister for the review of the works carried out on the fourth development axis and, in so doing, his response follows that the main justifications for certain projects are being prepared, in particular for railway undertakings. A number of documents are being prepared, but the key issue where I had a question about the very connection between Hotavjam and Cerkni, I see that we have not made much progress since previous issues or since some situation in 2008, 2009. However, I am interested in something more concrete about this connection, because the fourth development axis is designed right through the link between Cerkno and Hotavlje as the closest link between Soča, Idrija-Cerkljanski and central Slovenia, and if we know what the roads are in this area, you probably imagine that this area is still a very important connection. Clearly, in addition to restoring all other state roads in this area. When we talked about Y on this fourth development axis, we should not forget also the Y on the other side, where we are talking about the connection to Novi Gorica, which has been extremely burdened in the last period, because Gorica is connected to the highway or to the fast road and all freight traffic is carried out along this Soča road. That is why we are always talking about Y on both sides and the connection also against Nova Gorica, on the other hand, clearly, also about the connection through Preděl or Vršič to the intersections in our place, especially Trbž, and of course the road towards Kranjska Gora. Above all, I am still interested in: What's with the placement between Hotaways and Cerkne? What a more specific answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u142	As we say, at the Ministry we are in the stage of optimising these proposals, which have so far been on the table. This is the option North 1 and North 2 with a possible proposal for this new option with the aim of reducing investment costs and aiming to minimise interference with the natural environment of the Kopačnica Valley and to achieve maximum distance from the inhabited part of Hotavlje. This documentation is intended to be produced in the second half of 2016 and on this basis we expect the State Spatial Plan to continue following this optimized and improved version proposal. This is what I can say on the subject of the State Spatial Plan. As for other matters, as it is said, those projects continue, they are set at the level of project documentation production, proposals for state spatial plans are being prepared somewhere, and some are also being implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic will ask the Minister of Defence Andrea Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. On 24 June 2016, a mass for the homeland took place in Ljubljana's capital. As is customary for these holidays, despite the constitutional separation of the State from religious communities, it was attended by the entire political summit. In particular, the fact that the Masses were again attended by the Slovenian Army musical unit, namely the octet trumpets, and the Chief of General Staff, Dr. Osterman, in uniform. In addition, it is at least unusual that the Slovenian Armed Forces Orchestra also participated in a celebration organised by the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence, which is undoubtedly an auditist organisation that publicly condones the collaboration of patriots with the occupying party, while being known for its involvement in the interests of one political party, namely the SDS, and of one man, John Janez Janša. While the principle of separation between the State and the religious communities applies on paper in Slovenia, this divorce does not aim at persecuting faith, but ensures the impartiality of the State to all its fellow citizens. For these citizens are different religions and some are not even faithful, and if the state privileged the believers of one church, it knowingly discriminates against its fellow citizens. So I'm going to ask you some questions about this: Who approved the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces at the respective celebrations? How does one church’s participation in rituals, which, of course, is the only one adopting State holidays, conform to the constitutional principle of separation of the State from the church and the objection to conscience? That's why I'm asking you: Do you agree that the Chief of Staff attends such rituals? Was he present privately at the ceremony or represented the Slovenian Army? Does the soldier have the right to refuse to attend such a ceremony if sent by the General Staff? The Octet trumpets of the Slovenian Armed Forces also attended a celebration on Statehood Day organised by the Association of VSOs. I'm told you requested the written explanations of Major General Osterman in this regard and I'm interested in: Do you approve of the participation of members of the Slovenian Army in such, I stress, party events? Did Major General Osterman comply with the law? And of course: Will you allow your participation in such celebrations? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Andreja Katič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, thank you for asking. You addressed a similar question to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the beginning of this year, and you also asked about the participation of the Slovenian Army in the Mass for the homeland on the day of independence. The government gave you the answer in March 10th. 3, some of the views of the Government, which were then forwarded, can in fact only be repeated today. Neither the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia nor the Law on Religious Freedom contain a legal rule that expressly prohibits the participation of public servants, in particular in the case of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, not only private but also protocol, especially at the event you mention. While Article 4(3) of the Law on Religious Freedom, in the form of a legal principle, lays down the neutrality of the State to religious beliefs, but in particular and directly, for example, by perfectly clear legal rules, it does not regulate the participation of State representatives in religious ceremonies dedicated to public holidays and the participation of public servants of public authorities in their work on the basis of the powers of the State authority involved in the actual exercise of a religious ceremony dedicated to a public holiday. However, the content of this legal principle of separation between the State and the religious communities has been typified or defined by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in its Constitutional Judgment No U-I-92/07 of 2010. In view of these views of the Constitutional Court, as expressed in this Decision, neither the introduction of religious or secular elements into the functioning of the State nor their takeover and visual support, or in particular the creation of a view that the Catholic Church is a State church, can be defined as the conduct of State representatives who decide to participate in religious rituals dedicated to public holidays in accordance with this interpretation of the principle of separation between the State and the religious communities. The participation of representatives of the State in religious ceremonies dedicated to State holidays is considered to be an act that reinforces the views of the Constitutional Court, that a positive aspect of religious freedom expressly protects freedom of religion in public life as well, that religion and other definitions are considered an integral part of public life or society and that no one should be affected by their freedom of religion or belief merely because the activities of freedom of democratic society include a religious aspect. In view of the above, it should also be pointed out with regard to the Slovenian Armed Forces that the legal basis in force does not contain provisions directly allowing or prohibiting members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from participating in or attending religious ceremonies. In this particular event, as far as we have checked, cooperation took place on the basis of the invitation of the President of the Slovenian Bulgarian Conference of Monsignor Andrej Glavan. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces at such events shall cooperate in accordance with the Slovenian Armed Forces Directive on the implementation of the guards and protocols. The Directive was issued by the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces on 3. 12. 2012. It states that in the exercise of guards and military protocol tasks which include elements of church liturgy, state symbols of the Republic of Slovenia and symbols of the Slovenian Army are not entered into church buildings. The presence of members of the Slovenian Army at the services, in our view, in relation to these interpretations of legal acts, is not unconstitutional. However, I fully agree that there should be no distinction between the different registered religions in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, in that reply, we told you that during the previous year the Slovenian Army participated in several events of the Catholic Church and also in several events of the Evangelical Church, but that it did not accept requests for cooperation from other religious communities in Slovenia. As far as the decision is concerned. The decision on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces at various events is within the competence of the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. That's what happened in this case. The command of subordinated commanders, units and institutions is in accordance with Article 43 of the Defence Act within the competence of the Chief, and, of course, the Chief must also respect the limitations imposed on him by the law in his decisions. As regards the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces at the event For My Slovenia 25. 6. This cooperation took place on the basis of the annual plan for the cooperation of the Slovenian Armed Forces with the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence. The decision was taken by the Chief of Staff. In view of the various information provided in the media, I myself requested the Commissioner to ensure that participation in the event is not contrary to the second paragraph of Article 37 of the Defence Act, which provides that the Slovenian Armed Forces are not to be used for political or client activity or purpose. Before participating in the event, the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces assured me in writing that participation in the event was not contrary to the prohibitions applicable to the Slovenian Army, which should also be assured by the President of the VSO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, do you have a request to complete the response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u148	Dear Minister, of course I'm not happy with your answer, just as I wasn't with the one I wrote months ago. In fact, no one forbids representatives of the State or soldiers to participate in private religious rituals. I emphasize: private. But this is about the masses with which the RDC takes a de facto state holiday. This is not what other religious communities in Slovenia do. If there's a ceremony where the Chief of Staff and the soldiers really shouldn't go in uniform, it's a mass with which the RCC takes state holidays. Of course, they only have a mass for some. They have a mass as collaborators, but they do not have a mass for fallen partisans who were very religious and among them fell quite a few priests on the side of the liberators. But this is their problem, we only demand that such rituals are not attended by the Slovenian Army and the officials of this country, who must represent all citizens, even after the constitution. And the fact that the rules do not regulate this issue is a major sign of a lack of regulation. Just because there is a legal void here, you and the Chief of Staff are directly responsible and should by no means allow members of the Slovenian Army to participate in such rituals. Still, I will insist that you answer my question of conscience: What happens to a soldier or a representative of an orchestra who refuses to participate in such a procession? Please, this is very important, because we have information that they are also forced into such things. I'm asking for this answer if you don't have it right now, in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Ms Andrej Katič, Minister for Defence, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u150	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As I said earlier, the Slovenian Army participated in 2015 in the events of the Catholic Church and the Evangelical Church, the Catholic Church 24. 6. in the chair church in Ljubljana at the mass for the homeland, 30. 10. In the Mass for the Dead Soldiers and Policemen and the Old Church of the Ljubljana Psalms, in the events of the Evangelical Church, the Slovenian Army participated in the captures of the orchestra of the Slovenian Army. Ten. 2015 at the ceremony on the day of the Reformation in Ljubljana and at the event Vojakova Sunday, held on 20. 12. 2015 in Moravian Toplice, and that by other religious communities in Slovenia the Slovenian Armed Forces did not receive requests for cooperation. That's how we said it in writing. As far as the objection is concerned, I have not been aware of it so far, but I will check your claims that any of the soldiers in their own convictions would object to participating in these events and will provide you with an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u151	Mrs Violeta Tomic wishes for a procedural text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. No soldier will tell you where he hopes! But look, in Slovenia there is one religious community and this is the Roman Catholic Church, which is de facto acting as a state church and our entire political class is actively enabling it. Beneficiaries for denationalisation have acquired more than 2 billion assets, the farthest RDC, which is the largest landowner in the country. Only the Ljubljana archdiocese has as many as 15,000 hectares of land, schools owned by the RCC received more than 9 million public money in 2014, RCC priests are employed and paid as employees of the Slovenian Armed Forces, so RCC priests regularly bless public and state infrastructure, such as roads, hospitals and the like. In short, it's a de facto state church and we let them do it. This is also best seen in the so - called Masses for the homeland in Ljubljana’s capital. No other religious community accepts national holidays, and the representatives of the country recognise by their participation the special role of the RCC in our love country. On 24 June this year, the Mass was attended by the Chief of General Staff, the Guard Unit and part of the Slovenian Army Orchestra. However, to return to the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence, this is not a neutral veteran organization, we all know this, but the SDS party project and the VSO was also active in the 2014 protest committee in support of Janez Janša and the celebration itself was organised because of opposition to the state-wide celebration, which was good for all of us and which was also attended by representatives of other countries and high guests, and even some former travelers of Janez Janš who were invited, eventually boycotted this celebration. Your ministry, however, finances the VSO and allows the Slovenian Army to participate in such celebrations. For the sake of all this, I think it is entirely justified that I, under the rules of procedure, request that this be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you, too. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will address the question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mags. Diana jeedan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question to the Minister will focus on this new perspective 2014-2020, and it will soon be 2 years later. Above all, I am interested in – me and, of course, all Slovenian farmers – invitations. This is positive that we already have them on your portal, some of them even passed. Of course, we are both aware, and all those who are in the hall, that agriculture is in a very difficult position in several segments. In particular, I would like to ask you; I will say that I am very much following these calls, even talking to advisory services, I have been to two presentations of these calls. First of all, I'm worried about the small farm segment. The fact is that in Slovenia we have an average farm, which is 6 hectares. It is very positive that in Slovenia we also have very large farmers, successful farmers. But when we touch on these calls, which are now current, of course the perspective of Slovenia is primarily on you, the Ministry of Agriculture, to draw as many resources as possible to have as many modern farms as possible. But right now, it's stuck in the segment where these little farms don't meet the conditions. And I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Do you already have feedback from the field and from all the services involved in this important segment, where things are stuck? On the other hand, the question is: Will it be possible for these things, which make it impossible for tendering especially for smaller farms, to be amended? Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u155	Mag. Dean jedan, here you go. Your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members, a lovely greeting! Mr Member, thank you for asking. Allow me to say at the outset, because the issue has also been focused on mountain farms, so that if we want to have a different system of rules for mountain farms, we should have more rural development programmes in the country. Small countries such as Slovenia mostly have one rural development programme, because it is easier to manage it and is also significantly easier to implement, so that we do not think at this point in time that we would have two, three or four, because this would be a disproportionate administrative burden, but also difficult to implement. But I do know the information you're giving. The current system is like this: simple investments, where it is actually extremely simple, have a limit of €15 000 per investment. We had a border, and since then there has been a huge investment, where the administrative burden is the highest on 50,000 euros, and at the initiative of the agricultural area, we have changed this border this year, and this already applies, to 200 000 euros. On the other hand, when it comes to obtaining public money, we are constantly faced with diametrically contrary requirements, as regards the requirements of our agency, the administration and, above all, the controls we subsequently receive, it is always a fear that in fact the requirements are insufficient. In fact, even in the very controls that we then carry out, we see that they are violations. On the other hand, at the agricultural level, they wish that there is as little as possible, and within this we are looking for some balance, I hope that it allows for balance in this case. I would also like to say the following; however, it is true that for mountain-mountain farms we have special conditions in some other areas. The first area is the area of scoring. If mountain-mountain farms play a role, they get more points, which means that in years when less money is available – this year will not be the year, we are preparing calls in order to carry out some kind of needs assessment on the ground. This year, we expect that approximately as much money will be spent on the individual call for proposals as much as the number will be similar, but if there are more eligible applications, we can increase the money on individual calls. However, in the future, when the money is limited when, for example, there will be 10 million deposits available, 30 million will have more points, thereby facilitating access to the financing of the mountain-mountain farm. What is important is that mountain-mountain farms have a distance from the general principle, and this is that they no longer finance agricultural tractors as individual investments at the level. On mountain-mountain farms as well as as as a result of interviews and in particular security concerns – that is where we have the most security problems – we as a country have decided to finance, as individual investments, agricultural tractors on a 4-wheel drive just to increase the safety of people, i.e. farmers and farmers working on these farms. Then allow further information; and in September 2016, a call is planned for exclusively mountain areas, that is the difference, so that mountain-mountain farms will not compete with other farms that have better conditions, but will be reserved for them alone, and the level of funding or money will be, following these current projections, in line with 8 million, which in practice means that some investment pool is expected to be 20 to 30 million euros. This call, however, will be aimed at technological modernisation of barns, the implementation of agromeliorations, the provision of access to public roads, energy, water infrastructure, arrangements for the protection of bees against bears, the arrangements for pastures and the management of domestic animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u157	Mr Bojan Podkoršek would like a word to complement the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u158	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, most of what you were talking about — there is no problem. It is commendable that enough money is provided, but the fact is something, it will probably be much easier for us to say it here in the hall, when it comes to life when it comes to putting things together in nature to the end, but it is much harder. Let me tell you two specific cases will be easier to understand. I went to classes where there were probably fifty plus farmers or farmers. A logical question, of course with the illogical answer of experts, that a barn that is perhaps 25 years old has perhaps 20 heads of cattle, a hill farm, buys a calf feeding device. Of course, depending on the size that costs between €5 000 and €10 000. But the condition is that this farmer then gets a valid permit for the whole barn, I repeat. Of course, this is unacceptable for such a farmer. On the other hand, experts who are also paid by the State are thinking about one segment of the target, and they are not in any way reaching the goal of finding someone for enough points to succeed in the tender. Once again, it is commendable that the calls are, it is commendable that the money is provided, but I fear that we will not draw on this money, or even some fear that this money is intended for some large systems; on the other hand, I am afraid that these small farms will bypass these calls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u159	Minister Dejan Židan, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u160	Maybe this is the easiest way to answer, I can confirm, that calls for European money are difficult, but we have, in spite of everything, drawn up in our current perspective, I think, 99.68% of the money available. So Slovenia, as a space, is significantly pumping, this is first. Secondly, as regards the targeted calls; we have targeted calls just to avoid essentially competing with the general calls, and these targeted calls are not only for mountain-mountain farms, they are for water protection areas, they are for organic production and some others. And a step forward, and also, in fact, in investment calls, also separately, how much money is available for farms that are larger or have the status of an economic society or for other farms; just so that there is no danger that, say, large amounts of money will be drawn up for the small ones. On the other hand, if there is any illogicality in the individual invitation to tender, if we are informed in due time, we are ready to adjust the tenders ourselves. So allow me, Mr. Member, to give this place an initiative for agricultural advisors and advisors, as well as for farmers if they find that there is some illogicality – please note immediately! We'll correct where we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you, too, mag. Thirsty. Next is Dr. Jasna Murgel, who asks questions to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, given that I have been elected as a Member in the Styria region, I am of course interested in how this region is financed and this region is part of the Eastern cohesion region. That is why, for today, I have drawn up a question regarding European cohesion policy funds in the current financial perspective for 2014-2020. On the basis of the partnership agreement concluded between Slovenia and the European Commission for this period, it is stipulated that the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund shall be divided between the two cohesion regions, i.e. the Eastern and Western regions, on the basis of a single methodology. For the basic division between these two funds, the differences in the development of regions, the need and the state of the labour market and the projected increase in the risk of poverty are taken into account. Therefore, the division is determined by the provision of 40% of the European Social Fund and 60% of the European Regional Development Fund in the cohesion region of Western Slovenia. The Eastern Cohesion Region is then expected to receive 70% of the European Regional Development Fund and 30% of the European Social Fund. The questions in this regard are: In what way will your ministry take this division into account when preparing calls for projects to be signed up by entities from the eastern cohesion region in order to achieve the objectives of cohesion policy? Indeed, there was one invitation to tender, which was also pointed out by universities and economists when they visited the Government in the Styria region in which this division was not to be taken into account. In what way will your ministry ensure consistent compliance with the rules on the allocation of financial resources between the two regions and in this way allocate to the cohesion region Eastern Slovenia the share that belongs to it? How will the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport prevent this experience from being repeated in the first call for proposals when, in the tendering conditions themselves, a substantial number of funds have been offered for projects in the Western Slovenia region, even though the rules, as I said, should be followed in certain percentages? Thank you so much for answering in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u163	Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u164	Dear President, Your Honor in the Chamber, Madam Members! The Mišš will and will also take into account in the preparation of calls for proposals the ratio of financial resources available between the Eastern and Western cohesion regions and, of course, taking into account the specifics and also policies pursued in different areas both within the priority axes and of course individual instruments in the priority axes. The measures we are implementing, one you have already mentioned, are measures, in this case under Priority Axis 1, aimed at promoting the international competitiveness of research, innovation and technological development and are and will also be designed to follow in fact the objectives of development research policy and to also achieve effective compliance at the level of cohesion as a whole, but on the whole of the priority axis, respect for the envisaged relationship, as also agreed at the ground level. What does that mean? For the purpose of pooling potentials, all these instruments are essentially drawn up as a single mechanism, meaning as instruments for the whole country. We call this a single national approach, which, of course, can also cover the necessary critical mass. Certain parts of the region, of course, have a different critical mass than others – we are talking about entrepreneurial potential, the competitiveness of research, of course the absorption power of this and so on. Thus, in an implementing way, this means that the relationship between the Eastern and Western cohesion regions is determined at the level of an integrated, i.e. the entire priority axis, in this case case case case case 1, the priority axis 1, when we are talking about the first call for smart specialisation and therefore not an individual instrument. If, at this point, 15% of the entire priority axis has been allocated to the first call, i.e. to this first instrument, the remaining 85% will also be earmarked for the relationship between the Eastern and Western regions, but in a way that one of the instruments can have 90 % of the assets on the instrument, and in another case, 70 and 60, for example. Why is that? Because we are reaching the whole on the priority axis and in the end we will and must ensure an appropriate relationship between the Eastern and Western regions. It is, of course, so that research capacities, entrepreneurial potential, of course, are levels of competitiveness, those which we must follow for development research purposes and, of course, also the objectives of finding not only competitiveness, but, above all, ensuring an added value. That is why the process currently under way is the evaluation of the proposals received, of course those following very high criteria and we have committed ourselves to the European Commission in terms of both employment, employment, added value and economic growth. In the case referred to, therefore, I cannot talk directly about any undertakings or the acquisition of funds by individual institutions because the procedure is still in the final stage. However, I can reiterate that we are following the rules of division on the entire priority axis, but the individual instrument can carry more weight on one or the other region precisely because of the objectives I have listed so far. Finally, we will, and we must, ensure the proper relationship as agreed, and we have also communicated this and we are also informing all those potential stakeholders who will and want to be involved in these instruments.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik is addressing Mrs Irena Majcen with a question of correspondence to the Minister for the Environment and Space. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister! As you know, I already asked you some questions last year on the subject of housing law. Most of the time, I mentioned, we can say, a typical case of abuse of this law mainly by most companies or one of the companies involved in housing management. In Lenart we had an affair with Servostan, which used funds from the reserve fund for many other purposes, and at the same d.o.o. they even had trade. In 2014, in most of the major residential blocks in Lenart, Gubchev, in the Liberation Market, residents somehow began to receive messages from many suppliers of gas, electricity and all others, as this company did not pay all these charges further. What has happened is that this company has gone into some simplified process of forced settlement, which I think has been successfully completed, and now the same tenants who have been living during this time, we can say, have lost their reserve fund – in Lenart this money was over €400,000 – they are getting re-positions from society because this company has waived the claims they have already paid for water, electricity and garbage. I've got a whole series of bills where people get re-positions for those fixed costs that they pay a month in addition to the reserve fund. And that's something unusual that's happening. I would also like to say that in Lenart, for example, the Lenart case, which I am referring to, is that a new company that manages housing – let's say this year again has a problem, the board of tenants that has their own supervisory board chosen, because the new manager does not leave a reserve fund and funds that are currently in reserve fund to check on the bank. It avoids numerous proposals, numerous calls, written, oral calls to get members of the Supervisory Board access to the account to look at this reserve fund. With this question, I would like to open not only Lenart's issue, a respected minister, but the problem of many apartment managers, where there are many, we can say not only has he been abused, not only has there been an affair, but the reserve fund is often used by these companies for their own private purposes, so they abuse it, raise it up, maneuver it with that money, and eventually, when there is a bigger affair, people lose money. So once again, I ask you: Have you prepared any serious legal changes in this area so that these funds are somehow more secure? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u167	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u168	Mr. President-in-Office. Mr Franz Breznik, Commissioner, thank you for the question. At the Ministry of Environment and Space last December, we prepared amendments to the law, i.e. housing law, with which we wanted to resolve this issue in at least one part in order for each building, so the manager would have his own account for each building, which would show the financial situation of the reserve fund for each building and raise these funds only with the consent or consideration of the landlords. We had this change in mind, and we have prepared it, but unfortunately no one has stated it to us with any comments or comments just to tell us that this is how we irritate and increase management costs and that in terms of solving such or similar problems, we are not solving any of this change, so we have also withdrawn or closed it down and said that we will not change the Housing Law in this part. True, it is certain that if everything could be resolved by law, then we would not need the Law on Offences and the Law of Law, but we would not need courts. It is also true that, of course, the law does not prevent all abuses, but it does tend to have a better view of the financial situation of the reserve fund in some area — whether it is a block or a multi-housing building. The fact is that, of course, individual cases stand out, while, it seems, with most managers, there are no such problems, otherwise, I would get at least some confirmation that we are going in the right direction. However, despite what the NSP has already said, the national housing programme, the adoption of which gives us the task of drafting new housing legislation; we are working, we are in the stage of preparing the analysis, and from this analysis will be prepared the starting points which will be the basis for the drafting of the new housing law. Someplace next year, this preparation would take place and later or end of the year or in 2018, possibly the adoption of new legislation. But now I can't predict that there will be any change with regard to managers. Once again, we wanted to, in last December we offered such a solution in the amended version, but unfortunately, all the comments were in the direction that this did not need to increase costs, so we withdrew from the change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u169	Mr Franz Breznik would like a word to complement the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. You know, you didn't say anything. I hope you understand. What increases the cost? By writing a fixed decree into the law, that someone who manages buildings, that authorized persons by the board of residence or by the supervisory board or whatever we call having an insight and that without their consent they cannot raise these funds. Here I do not see what the problems are, everyone is obliged to give immediate authorization to these people so that they can regularly check and report to the other residents how much they have on the reserve fund itself. Look, the Servostan case in Lenart is a typical case, nothing worked. In your written reply last year, your ministry sent me that there were 7 inspections, that the company had in addition to another regular transaction account which was blocked, 34 special transaction accounts of the type of TRF, and you also wrote that you are preparing a change of law. Now, look, lady, if it is not possible, I will support this, in the SDS we will prepare these changes to the law, which will not cause new costs, which will be simple, clear dictates, at least as far as this is concerned. With this question, I also call on all others who have their own administrators of these apartments to check the reserve accounts so that they will not be the same as the residents of Lenart in the Slovenian Gorica where the pensioners, where the people, have been paying workers for a decade in this reserve fund. We have a block in Lenart in the Liberation Market, which is literally impoverished, where we would need a new facade right now, and things remain, that is to say, the rehabilitation of this block and people have run out of money. The company ended the settlement, they can laugh and work on it. Look, nobody's got anything, no criminal charges, as I'm told, and so on. Such a change of law, a respected minister, must come because there will be further abuses.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u171	Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u172	Actually, I don't have an answer. I would like more to express my agreement that, of course, the owners of apartments that raise funds into the reserve fund should also, in my opinion, at any time look at the situation for one unit, whether it is one entrance to a multi-block box or just one block. Because in the sense of an honest manager, the building manager in Slovenia especially now, when Eko funds for energy renovation of buildings, these renovations take place in many places. However, if financial resources are not available due to various frauds, the impact of the owners of the apartments may be high. Here I can only attach to you those who have asked me a question today, but otherwise I will assign to all those who claim that the owner is responsible for the property and the owner is obliged or also has the right to check his situation and certainly the owners of the apartments in the multi-housing blocks are those who must exercise these rights, not least to file criminal charges if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u173	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you very much. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to open a debate in the National Assembly on this issue. I think we've talked too little about this. It is not just about Servostan, it is not just about residents of these residential blocks and multi-housing houses in Lenart who are left robbed, who are literally paying higher fixed costs today because certain rehabilitation works were not done in these buildings. More than €400,000 of this society is being robbed and there are repeated violations today. As I mentioned, in Lenart we have a new, yet another building manager who also avoids having representatives of the residents of these blocks come to the bank and be able to look at the reserve fund. I think we need to make a legal change, Madam Minister, so that such abuses do not continue to occur, and I do not think that costs would increase. I hope you are also aware in the coalition of this that some such story as it is in Lenart may have happened in your place and that we can find some marriage solutions. That is why I propose and I hope that you will then confirm in the vote that we will talk about this, that is, on the basis of the debate in the National Assembly. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, I propose that the debate be held in the framework of the votes on the subject of the reserve fund in particular, the whole of the Housing Law and the legal voids that are still in existence in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 13 July 2016 in the framework of the votes. We continue with Mr Zvonk Lah's question to the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings to ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns the legalization of black buildings. I found the title of one newspaper online, and a half year ago, the Black Building phenomenon of the Balkans. And since spatial and construction legislation is being prepared, the new building legislation, I am interested in how this is going to work with us, because it would be normal for this kind of legislation to be incorporated into both spatial and new building legislation, so that we do not partially solve this problem, because they can get involved. I want to know: How are things with us? Croatia, the neighbouring country of Croatia, passed the law in 2011, and they took a little too much of this law in 2012 and, quite a bit – more than 800 000 – they solved the black constructions, which is already around 40%. Macedonia also passed a law in 2011, where there were about 350 thousand black buildings. But they've solved it by now, by 2016 it's a deadline, about 80% of all. What about us? I know that a former minister named Gregor Virant once drafted a law on legalization. Perhaps he was right because he worked hard with Macedonia at the time, and he sold the law to Macedonia, and they accepted it — nothing! In 2014 Serbia and Montenegro also went to this hard nut – nothing! That's why I want to know: Will this be included in our spatial and construction legislation, which is to be considered this year? If not, my question is to encourage this, because we all practically had similar legislation in the former Yugoslavia, if not the same, and other countries have already done so five years ago. We as the most developed and advanced republic of the former Yugoslavia are nothing. I believe that great damage is being done in this area, even in the economy, and that it is high time to resolve this too. But we must be aware that there are many owners of these black buildings that live on the social side. So I'd like to ask if you can answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u177	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor for reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u178	Dear Member, Mr Zvonko Lah, thank you for the question. In terms of the preparation of spatial or building legislation, much is being done to ensure that in the future black constructions are limited or could be stopped before such construction is even completed. This means that, at the start of the construction project or in obtaining a building permit, immediately contact the inspection service, that the building permit has been obtained and that construction works have therefore begun. Thus, the attention of neighbors and neighborhoods is appropriate and such construction is stopped immediately if it is a black construction. Not as is the fact now that the number of constructions is, of course, large that the congregations in the past had some program to regulate the situation of black buildings. Some of these black constructions were then processed, but not many. I myself hope that the adoption of municipal spatial plans would allow for a better classification of this problem, because we know that if, according to the spatial act of the municipality, for a parcel where an object is located without an appropriate building permit, the construction option is defined, of course, the procedure for legalising such an facility can be applied to the offices and it is no longer necessary to amend legislation today. It is true, however, that we wish to address at least one part of this problem in the drafting of legislation and also to resolve it through legislation. These are objects that have long been standing or have been in an environment for more than 20 years. Of course, we want to define these objects as objects — especially if they are intended to stay or economic activities — to legalise, but will not be able to upgrade or issue any building permit that would increase the capacity of such a facility. That the moratorium on such objects is now, and that's what we know. Then there are some specific cases of illegal facilities in which, due to special circumstances, as I have already mentioned, this interest is that these facilities allowing families to stay, of course, or by means of procedures, to determine whether this facility is suitable and legalised or that such a family is provided with a replacement facility or a replacement condition for residence during a reasonable period. We do not, of course, pay particular attention to other objects, as I have stated. We do know, however, that the number of facilities without suitable permits, especially the unrequited fact that we are not talking about simple objects at all, is, of course, much higher. These procedures for such facilities will be linked to the change in the spatial plans of the municipalities or will need to be removed, which the owners are actually already doing in the work so far, because these facilities are not subject to moratoriums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u179	Bell Lach wants a word to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u180	Madam Minister, your answer does not give me much hope that we will save this in due course. Word is they're supposed to be older objects, 20 years old, legalized. Interestingly, in Macedonia and Croatia, every legalisation option that was built before the validity of this adopted law on legalisation was granted. We also know that many people and families live in such facilities that are illegally built do not have any documentation. We both know that we can't get this family out of this facility, that we don't have any marriage, we saw the problem of building a highway when the owner of this facility couldn't be evicted. [[…]] If he doesn't have another unit, no one's gonna get him out. Who's gonna buy him an apartment or give it to him? A country, a congregation? That's not true! However, it is not fair for those who have legally paid all the municipal contributions, written, put in a cadastre of buildings, paid all the taxes, but for some to live the same way. They need to be connected to municipal infrastructure, but it is not possible if they do not have a building permit. That is why I think it is right for us to adopt a law in our country, not to talk about economic activities – paramilitaryism, the development of tourism in the walls and so on. Everything is reversed because we do not have the right law to resolve the situation. Things are very complicated, over 300,000 of them in Slovenia, Madam Minister. If we do not resolve this, we will be the last of all these former republics of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u181	Minister Irena Majcen, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u182	Mr Bell Lach, I really don't understand now. Can't I say or you don't listen. And if we didn't, I'd say we're both insisting on this discussion. I think that's exactly what I was talking about; that is, how to legalise housing facilities and facilities suitable for production. But it is true that these are not all objects, that we know simple, unnecessary, demanding and even higher categories of objects and that this new legislation also regulates certain things differently and that we are trying. Everything we don't legalize, but I think it's the right thing to do. In particular, given that a large number of agricultural establishments intended for agricultural production are allowed to be planted on agricultural land under the adopted agricultural law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u183	Mr Zvonko Lah would like a word for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u184	I will use this business opportunity to discuss this in the National Assembly. Madam Minister, I listened to you very carefully. The draft laws you are preparing are legalized in the same way as the new procedure is followed by the acquisition of a building permit. Nothing else. We tell you that an object that is 30 years old, prepared or repaired to provide, under today's regulations, all the conditions for a technical inspection and then a usable permit are virtually impossible. It's better to tear him down. According to these rules, a valid permit is for an old building that can be worth EUR 10 000 and EUR 4 000; a procedure takes about a year and a half. That's not gonna work. Macedonia has 1 euro per square metre of legalisation contribution. The conditions for simple objects, including surfaces, are divided; the object up to 100 square meters, the object up to 400 square meters, the different documentation conditions required. The basis is for such an object to be found in the earth cadaster, in the cadaster of buildings, to collect some amount of usurpation and municipal contribution, to attach to the municipal infrastructure, to enable the facility to function and obtain a usable permit or to be confirmed with some record. Former Minister Virant has already drafted this law. That's how Croats are, and that's how Macedonians are, and they're also successful. But we're not going anywhere like this. Then it is cheaper for someone for one object to rent a 20-ton bagger and dig a hole, break in and flat. Is that our goal? Look, when I read the legislation, how do they do it in Western Europe? There, even the state gives the opportunity to local communities which issue building permits and legalise to decide for themselves; proportionality is given to the level of local communities. With us only the Constitutional Court can decide on proportionality, and all the rest of us have to respect only the laws. The Western countries are going to give local communities the opportunity to decide, even though it is against a rule not to demolish a particular object. It's like we don't have it, and it's like there's no problem. We request a building permit. Where are we with the brains? If we want everything to heal and everything to collapse on its own, then let's take this policy like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u185	Mr Lah, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 13 July in the framework of the votes. Mrs Vesna Vervega asks the question of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Dark and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Minister Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister of Mag. Diane jedan! The report for Slovenia entitled Improving social inclusion at local level through the 2010 social economy highlights some of the shortcomings of our social protection system. Among other things, the report mentions the need to improve the sustainability of social enterprises within the tendering regime. It is also mentioned that a strategy for social enterprises should be developed in the delivery of services as a complement or alternative to public implementation, in particular for social services. As a result, I would like to highlight the problem of deinstitutionalisation and the recently adopted amendment to the Social Protection Act, which introduced the very basis for prior testing of the organisation of activities or of individual social protection services or programmes whose content is already assigned, as well as experimental programmes which are not yet verified. The Social Protection Act thus enables the development of new methods, forms and approaches to prevent and address the pressures of individual vulnerable groups, with particular emphasis on or exposure to older people who have lived their entire lives in rural areas and for these reasons are largely unable to live at home and do not want to be institutionalised. So they're looking for some alternative options. One of such alternative forms of living could for some time be a publicly known idea of accommodation units on farms. It would, of course, be voluntary, suitable for over 60 years of age and even active older people, who still need additional care. I therefore ask the two distinguished ministers to allow for the implementation of deinstitutionalisation programmes later: How do you assess the idea of introducing these services for the elderly? What legal basis should be provided for realisation? But above all, I want to know: Is there any possibility that all legal persons engaged in non-profit activities would be allowed to do so, whether they are private or public, or even social enterprises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u187	The first is Minister Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you, Vice-President, for the floor, honourable Member, thank you for the question. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we see the possibility of greater cooperation between our social security providers and activities carried out on farms. In our view, it can be an important complement to the offer, which also fulfils our two objectives: deinstitutionalising social security services and, in particular, increasing the choice between services and developing new community services, including the development of alternative forms of accommodation for older people. So, what you've pointed out, we also agree at the Ministry with this assessment of yours. In order to actually test this, two months ago we were given a great deal of help by the amendment of the Social Protection Act, which you also mentioned, and we have already agreed with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to form a working group. The working group will prepare a starting point for the experimental implementation of the complementary activity of social security services on the farm. In addition to the representatives of both ministries, key NGOs in the field of agriculture will also participate in the working group. In our interviews so far, we have considered the following content – the complementary activity of the social security service can be devoted to adult or older users of institutional protection, temporary accommodation and day care. Only part of the social security service, namely residence, nutrition and part of social security, is provided on the farm. The activity must be carried out through an operator in a public network with which the operator of the complementary activity has a contract concluded and with which the Ministry is also informed. In fact, it is important to ensure that people, if the situation gets worse, if they need to not stay out there somewhere without being taken care of, but that this connection is with the institutional protection provider. However, the holding will be authorised to carry out the complementary activity after signing the contract with the contractor in the public network. The required competence of the supplementary activity operator must be at least a national professional qualification of the social provider/provider. In the framework of the pilot project, it will be necessary to develop standards and standards for this additional offer and to design a price. If pilot implementation is successful, this is, of course, incorporated into the legislation. The working group will also address the other proposals received by both ministries regarding the implementation of social security services on the farm and will therefore propose the extension of these pilot projects. It is also available at the time of the call, because the funds are also available at the time of deinstitutionalisation, in order to support projects on such a basis by European means; that is to say, with the aim of activating the countryside as much as possible in this way and at the same time ensuring the plurality of the accommodation of residential communities, which would also be intended for the elderly in the countryside. As surely as the thinking goes in this direction as you mentioned it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u189	Minister Mag. Dean jedan, here you go. Your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, once again a good-bye. At the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we are interested in new activities within complementary activities. You know, it is related to our farms being super-averagely small and looking for opportunities to have new activities, how to have new incomes, not least what has already been said, how to improve the quality of life of older people. We are carriers of the Supplementary Activity Regulation. Here, in this particular case, we do not have much potential for comparisons with the European Union or with other countries, because we are already above standard in this respect. This is because we are trying to find farms new activities that are not yet in place. The Regulation itself applies from 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The task force is operational. It will present its results at the Agra Fair, because it gathers the most farmers and farmers – this fair is attended by 130 thousand people. However, we will present at this stage as a pilot project, as the Minister has said, so that in fact everyone will gain experience in regulatory arrangements and, in fact, within the pilot project, we can have several more open options for action. There are two forms of requests coming upon us right now. The first is, but we can also provide this to espionage or companies. We can't do that, we're the bearers of a regulation on farms. These complementary activities, which do not include – I will later if allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u191	Mrs. Vesna Vervega, would you like a word to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Of course, I would like Minister Dejan Židan to finish, and perhaps one more thing. Minister, this time you mentioned exclusively contractors in the public network. So only those contractors who are inside the public network, if I understand correctly. I'm still asking for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u193	Dr. Anya Digger Dark, would you like a word? Let's give the mags a head start. Diane jedan? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u194	Thank you, Chairman. We are faced with questions that relate not only to physical ones but to espaes and economic societies. We can only answer for natural persons through this Regulation. Second, in essence, questions arise as to whether to allow themselves to pass through professional organisation, especially through public service, this is a professional question for us. We do not want to, because this is a sensitive population, in fact we do not want in particular during the pilot project, but perhaps initial steps to conclude that this new project on Slovenian farms works beyond any standards that are necessary within the social standards of the care of older people or young people where social care is needed. This is how our proposal goes in this direction that in the first stage farms should be those who provide such food, stay and part of social services, but under the patronage of someone who is a professional. After this system develops, it will re-examine whether it is possible to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digač Dark, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you. Just an explanation. There's no one here who can do this on farms. So it is not here, there are farms going, but there is a link to the existing network, which we recognise and are also within the service provided that they are. So if someone were to stay on the farm, have some kind of care, if he gets worse, it's also kind of necessary to provide some standards and standards, so that he can be transferred. We're overreacting from this point of view. The working group that discusses this is, above all, this debate – in what way we can open up, but how to link to the existing capacity of the public network; hence, there are concessionaries and public welfare institutions, which are public service providers. To open this up, however, is the question of what we will get from the point of view of user safety, because this element is the most important element to have here. Thus, at this time, the working group has this link, but it is not yet complete and, of course, things can still be found within the working group, where others are also interested in it, but a wider solution can be found. I understand that there is a need for as much enlargement as possible, this is in some way an activity of the future, this will be increasingly due to an ageing society, but there is also a need to keep in mind the protection of users who will be included in such accommodations.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the question of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In 2011, the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, which defines the property of illicit origin as an asset derived from illegal income or by illegal means, was adopted in the National Assembly. At the time, there was some hope that citizens and citizens would still get their sum back in the country's budget, at least some money that had been stolen in previous years since 1991, which is why the limitation period was extended at that time, but that was not the case. At that time, the mountain shook, the mouse was born, and when I asked you in a written question on which I received the answer on 4 May 2015, how was the implementation of this law, I received the answer that 22 financial investigations were made by 88 natural and 57 legal persons from the beginning of the application of this law until last year, that only one case had occurred and that a total of EUR 309,000, a good EUR 309 thousand, had been taken away. In short, with all the machinations that have taken place, with all the indignant stories, with all the indignant individuals, not only is there virtually no human, there is no responsible from that time – not least now we can follow in the National Assembly, since we have an investigative commission to identify abuses in the banking system, how these stories are coming on the plan – not only that no one is sitting, but also the confiscation of property has not occurred in any way. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary. How do you comment on these results that, in the four years since we have this law, there has been only one case of property confiscation worth EUR 310 000? What will you do to make the implementation of this law more effective? Do you have any information, if it has been in this good year since this written question has changed in any way and it is data that is no longer relevant? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u199	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Member Jean Mahnic, Members and Members of Parliament, colleague! First, I'll give you the latest statistics, the latest data I have in connection with the application of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin on Day 10. 6. That's just the information the state's attorney gave us. A total of 26 financial investigations were conducted against 103 natural persons and 76 legal entities, of which 12 financial investigations are currently open against 36 natural persons and one legal person, of which SDT, is called the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, leading 17 investigations, while the various District Attorney's Offices 9 investigations. There are currently 15 or 16 million euro in temporary insurance in 11 cases. I'll be there by 10. 6. 13 civil actions have been filed for the confiscation of such assets, suspected of being of illegal origin. In two cases it has already been decided by judgment, once regrettably, you are right, still only once, legally, and the total value of the amount achieved is two million euros. What can we conclude from this? First of all, it's undeniable that it's an institute that's slowly getting caught. One of the reasons for this is that, for a long time, the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office in this area has not been teamed up. The law was adopted in 2011, as was the case with the specialized state prosecutor's office, then there was quite a bit of free running, even though you will say that I am returning the ball to you, is the fact that the other Janša government in this area did not do absolutely nothing, but indeed absolutely nothing, not in terms of the completion of the state prosecutor's office, not in terms of any legal initiatives on this subject, and there was also one part of the free running. However, things changed in one year, as you asked. The numbers have grown, they are growing not only proportionally, but, in fact, exponentially, from my point of view still unsatisfactoryly, but I believe that a positive trend will continue. This is because last year we significantly strengthened the state's prosecutions with 30 new prosecutors, and last year a new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office was adopted in the National Assembly, where additional legal obstacles to the award of expertise to the specialised state prosecutor's office were removed. Although I do not know how you voted at the time, the fact is that the law was approved, for the first time, unfortunately, it was not until last year that the Civil Finance Department in the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office was established and prevented the appointment of special experts in the civil field, including state defenders. The fact is also that, as he is told briefly, for a long time before the Constitutional Court, there have been various constitutional disputes, some on the part of the courts, some on the part of individuals who have been in it, we will say to this, to the wheel, and that at that time we are all waiting in some way for the decision of the Constitutional Court. We're, we'll say, on a low start, whatever it is, that if the marriage is partially annulled, we'll fix it. This is an important instrument and an institution that needs to be further strengthened, but we cannot do so until the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, at this point in the public or professional debate, the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure, which we have prepared at the Ministry of Justice, and also in this area, in connection with access to data by banks and the intensity and speed of criminal proceedings, carries, in our view, significant acquisitions and solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u201	Mr Jan Mahnic would like a word to complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you. More like some comment than some additional questions. So, this year there were four more investigations, 22 of them listed, now 26. However, insurance is only EUR 2 million more than it was in 2015. That is to say, from 13 million 660 thousand we have now come, as you said, to a good 15, 16 million euros. I agree with you that the matter is taking place slowly, even if we are looking at it from 2011 onwards, you could almost say that it is too slow, especially because you were at the KPK where you probably received numerous applications, and you know that this, at least these suspicions of illegal property, is a great deal. This just confirms yesterday's thesis by Mr President of the Government that this country is run by the Mafia. Apparently, some hunters go so far as to be holy cows and are also protected from law enforcement because we know that here the reverse burden of proof applies and you have to prove where the property comes from. Many are like that when we should have proved long years ago. I think that everything should be done to accelerate this law, to carry out such activities, given that the law is also in constitutional judgment, because if we are talking about corruption here in this national council, how corruption must be eradicated, and citizens and citizens know many stories, many of them from their local backgrounds. Although I doubt that there are any applications coming, because you still know what it's like when everyone's afraid to register or expose himself, even if it's anonymous, but this is an opportunity for the country to show that it's serious and that's a good instrument, an institution with which citizens and citizens can be restored not only to law enforcement authorities, but also to a sense of equality.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš has a question for the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anjo Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, chairman. Long-term poverty is on the rise in Slovenia. This long-term poverty is reflected in an increase in the number of people receiving social assistance more than 24 times in three years. Long - term poverty is most common among older people, people with disabilities, who are unemployable or unemployable under objective circumstances. If I serve with a bureaucratic jargon, these people are called the farthest from the labour market, and such economic growth and even such an increase in employment cannot help them, only social benefits and redistributive state mechanisms can help them. In the Social Agreement, the Government promised to obtain a minimum cost of living this year and then to harmonise the minimum income. This minimum income is then the basis for a dose of social assistance and a protective allowance. From your reply, Madam Minister, my colleague Moonec shows that this assessment will be made by the end of this year at best, but it is not clear if you intend to increase the minimum income. It is said that not only a new minimum income is charged, but that it is then specifically applied with new numbers, because our people, who date from 288 euros a month, cannot help themselves with certain numbers. It is necessary, then, to raise social assistance to a decent level, which actually enables a person to survive as a matter of urgency. Your own 2009 calculation showed that the minimum income should be set at at least EUR 385, and since then the minimum cost of living has not been reduced, which is not the least evidence of the movement of the statistical threshold of poverty. That's why I'm interested in two – for the first time: When will a higher amount of minimum income start to apply, at least approximately equivalent to the minimum cost? I repeat, first of all, these minimum costs must be charged or recharged, and then the minimum income with social assistance and the social allowance should in fact be reconciled. And then there's the second question: In what way would we ensure that we find funds for this urgent increase in social assistance? We know that the budget for the following year, according to 2017, is not made under the assumption that this minimum income would increase. I'm so curious: Where would you like to get the money if you had any sincere intentions to increase financial welfare? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mr. Miha Kordish. It may be worth recalling that the minimum income was introduced in Slovenia since 2001. At that time, it was calculated that the minimum income was 158.33 euros, and this — you will not believe — had never been recalculated or changed in our country by 2011 and then only coordinated, that is, in the period 2001-2011, with the increase in the minimum cost of living and thus amounted to 230, 61 euros in 2011. Then the calculation, as you correctly stated, was made in 2009, because then, under Minister Svetlik, it was fundamental to make calculations and then the calculation for minimum income was made and is also made in legislation – so as not to repeat what happened that we did not have any new calculation for 10 years – the Social Protection Act stated that, on the basis of a comparable methodology, at least every 5 years, the minimum cost of living would be determined. If the difference between the amount of the basic amount of minimum income and the amount of the newly established minimum cost of living exceeds 20 %, the Ministry shall fix a new amount of the basic amount of minimum income. So these are the legal provisions that the government of Borut Pahor adopted at the time and therefore bind us. This year, as agreed in the Social Agreement, the Ministry has acceded, of course on the basis of a public contract, and the selection of the contractor will make an assessment of the minimum cost of living. We've already approached that. The data required will be known in October 2016. So when these inputs are known, this research will also be completed. So we expect that the end and results will be at the end of the year and, of course, if the legal conditions are met, we will also carry out this harmonisation. It must be said, however, that it is very important to provide a minimum income which, as you have found, is the basis for the calculation of monetary social assistance and also of a security allowance, but also when we also raised the minimum wage by 23% in 2010, it was agreed that, of course, the individual who does not work, compared to the one who works, since the minimum wage was then set at EUR 562, cannot have higher income than the minimum wage set. It was therefore established at that time that the right to a protective allowance was a maximum of 80 % of the net minimum wage. Here inside you have to look at different categories: minimum income and minimum wage and average pay. I always point out that it is absolutely necessary for those who cannot afford to work to be able to take care of the state as the one who has to take care of it, the last safety net in which individuals are required, but at the same time we must be aware of the level of the minimum wage, which unfortunately is as important as the social and economic category. Unfortunately, we cannot take the minimum wage out of the context of the average wage, and again, I will say, we have about EUR 1,000 500 on average, but two thirds of workers receive an average wage. Of course, all of this needs to be taken into account when we are also talking about the level of minimum income. But let me answer you for a moment. On the basis of the law, calculations will be made, as was the case with the Government of Borut Pahor in the biggest crisis, and they will raise the minimum income that did not rise 10 years ago, just as we raised the minimum wage, which was not raised more than 15 years ago, so we will also provide financial resources once the legal conditions are met. But let's wait for the calculations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you, Minister. Mr Miha Kordiš wishes to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you for your words, Mr President, and thank you for your reply, Madam Minister. I'm going to elaborate a little bit more, and I'm going to point out what I finally asked you in the first place. You mentioned the restriction on social assistance in relation to minimum wage. Indeed, at the time of the 2009 calculations, the minimum cost of living was set at EUR 385 and 80% of the minimum wage would be social aid at EUR 308. Did we get social assistance on 308 euros? No! No! At the time it was still too much money for the poor, indicating that the decision here was completely political, you yourself mentioned difficult times and so on. On the one hand, I can understand this, but on the other hand, I do not think it is ok that there is any kind of sprinkling on the poor; on the other hand, it is not helpful for the long-term poor who are cut off from the labour market and economic growth. I am not worried that the new calculations will give the wrong numbers, but I still expect them to show that the minimum income must go to at least EUR 385. I'm just afraid that this number will not be taken into account on the political path. Let me also remind you here that the minimum wage has increased from €560 to €700 per month plus regress, together for lunch and transport. There's a lot of maneuvering space here to raise a security allowance to raise cash social assistance and minimum wage. There's no excuse and no limit. And before that, I asked for you: Where are you potentially looking for resources for social assistance to increase the minimum income?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you. I would basically like social activation programmes to produce results, so that even for people farthest from the labour market, there is some possibility of participation in the labour market. The change in disability insurance is also important mainly in view of the fact that a key right is not a monetary compensation but rehabilitation, which is to help people get to work; even if it is not a full-time job. The role of social enterprises and others must also be mentioned; this should be the primary objective. However, it is important for those, even if social activation is to come to life, that they still do not have this contact with the labour market, to ensure that the country helps with decent survival. And in this regard, I would repeat that after ten years, calculations were made, methodologically, the basket was identified, which are the basic goods included in this basket. It's not a matter of political will. Of course, it is important when we compare that we are talking about net amounts or gross amounts, so around 700 euros is the minimum wage gross, and the net is what I said. Calculations should then be adjusted and carried out at the full level. However, the fact that the protection allowance received by permanently unemployed persons is significantly higher; it is €463 or €485, somewhere, which is significantly higher because it also includes goods in the basket, where it is not only temporary. Since the DSP is basically supposed to be a temporary cash social assistance, this protective supplement also includes permanent goods and the replacement of these durable goods. Buying a washing machine and such things is also included in this basket. Therefore, the protective allowance is substantially higher than monetary social assistance. The basis, however, is the calculation of the basket, where a basket, which is of a more limited nature, is determined for the calculation of monetary social assistance. The second was the basis for the protective supplement. And the law says, as I mentioned, that on the basis of a comparable methodology, calculations will be made. Once the calculations are known, if the difference is more than 20%, the ministry will proceed to change. And we are already having discussions with the Ministry of Finance, how and how we will provide funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u211	Mr Miha Kordish wants a word for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Of course, I would like to propose that the issue of poverty, long-term poverty and poverty reduction be discussed in the National Assembly. This should be even one of the priorities of our society. The Minister says that he is waiting for calculations on the minimum cost of living, which is all right, these calculations need to be made. But what is worrying and the past tells us is that this concern is not unfounded, and if the new calculations are followed by political action. If the accounts show, for example, that there is a need to raise social assistance to EUR 385, in order to actually find the budget money or to implement measures on the revenue side of the budget. And that they will be carried out in such a way that they will fill the social register. I will stress here once again that the people who have fallen into the spiral of long-term poverty are very limited in their access to the labour market. Some can't even access it, but it's often for the elderly, especially some elderly single women on some farm who couldn't afford to pay farm insurance, but at least once received a state pension; then this state pension was abolished. Within the question of poverty, long-term poverty are particularly vulnerable and exposed groups that urgently need the material, solidarity assistance of the entire Slovenian society. And if the calculations to raise the minimum cost of living are really running, I'm glad, I'm waiting for their results. However, as I say, I am concerned about what will happen on the revenue side of the budget. Madam Minister comes from a number of social democrats who have – and this is really one of their better ideas – in the economic programme are written to raise the corporate income tax to 22.6%. This would give us enough money, even stronger money, to meet the necessary EUR 60 to 100 million needed to raise social assistance to EUR 385. Of course, it is a condition that this increase in capital taxation is actually directed into the country's redistributive mechanisms to help the poorest, most vulnerable in our society; and not – as the socio-democrat economic programme continues – to reduce income for the upper middle class. Here's the contradiction. In the United Left, we believe that the funds thus obtained should go to the social treasury.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 13 July, in the framework of the votes. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister of Finance a question, which is unfortunately a percentage today. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all who accompany this meeting, as well as to all the six Members and Members of Parliament and to the Minister. My Member's question concerns claims for contributions to pension and disability insurance. The 2014 Annual Report of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia states that the claims for contributions to pension and disability insurance amount to EUR 293 million 970 000 803. Of this, some over 115 million contributions are conditionally recoverable, which is about 20.4% of all claims, and slightly less than 40% of the outstanding claim. Due to indemnity, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia cancelled a few more than €33 million of contributions to pension and disability insurance in 2014. In 2015, claims for contributions to pension and disability insurance amounted to slightly more than 294 million, which means that the amount increased by more than EUR 800,000. With regard to the above, and the fact that Furs, as the supervisor for the recording of claims for contributions to pension and disability insurance, provided data on the basis of the Guidelines to Supervisors for the Registration of Claims on Public Finance Income, the Claims on Public Finances Transmitted to Tax Enforcement and the Write-off of Claims on Public Finances issued by the Ministry of Finance; and I ask: Why was it so high - I estimate that these are very high - the amounts of outstanding claims and write-offs, while the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia must have current data on the liabilities for the accrued contributions and the resulting remittances? Who is responsible for such a situation? What has the Ministry done, plans or will it do to improve the situation? Is there a planned amendment to the legislation that would go towards greater control by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia? As the Minister of Finance, as has been said, is not here today and is hopeful that the Minister will be present at the next meeting of the National Assembly, I would also like to be given an answer at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u215	Thank you, too. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The area of electricity is in some way covered by the Ministry of Infrastructure in the country. The whole electricity economy is quite a broad concept in the country, including the forms of control companies themselves are very different, but today I would like to highlight some things that I think should be improved. In the last two years, there have been quite a number of staff exchanges in these companies. I understand all those who have or have expired their mandates, including some political changes; but above all, I want to touch on a more important area, this is the management of these societies. Certain experts estimate that the electricity sector in Slovenia is also well-dimensionated. And this raises the issue of control, specifically how certain companies operate and how these companies are rational and economical. We know that the majority of these companies are still state-owned. This is said to be a state-owned or state-owned business. If I am even more specific, especially irrational, I find the case of appointment of supervisors to Holding the Slovenian Power Plant, where six other supervisors are still being named vehemently by additional, new six supervisors. This is the easiest way to get a majority vote, to avoid getting rid of some of the existing supervisory members, but if we look from the point of view that this is about state money, it seems extremely irrational to me. For this reason, Mr. Secretary, I ask you a question: In what way can the Ministry's measures affect this non-economic behaviour in the electricity sector, or also affect better business results in this company?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Minister Gašperšič, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Member of Parliament, Mr Ljub Žnidar, for the question raised. The area of electricity indeed falls under the auspices of the Ministry of Infrastructure, but I would like to point out that it is only part of our competence that concerns policy-making, the legislative framework, the development strategies in the field of electricity. However, corporate governance in the field of electricity is divided between the Ministry of Infrastructure and SDH. Under the Energy Act, the Ministry of Infrastructure is responsible for monitoring and carrying out the tasks of managing the State’s capital investments – in particular and exclusively in Eles, Sodo and Borzen. All three companies are state-owned, public economic services and, according to their organisational form, all three are limited-liability companies operating in accordance with the Company Act. In view of the comparability with the management of companies which are under the responsibility of SDH, the Ministry of Infrastructure monitors the operations of the three companies on the basis of the acts adopted by the SDH administration; these are, in particular, the Capital Investment Management Code of the Republic of Slovenia and the Recommendation and Expectations of the Slovenian State Holding, for which the Ministry of Infrastructure also has the agreement of SDH. With regard to personnel matters in these three companies, I can say that the number of employees in Eles increased from 516 in 2013 to 532 in 2015. In Sodo, the number of employees in 2013 increased to 38 from 33 employees in 2015. In the company Borzen, the number of employees from 30 in 2013 fell to 29 employees in 2015. These changes are moving within the annual employment plans of all these companies; the main reason for the increase in the number of employees in Eles is the gradual takeover over the management of the 110 kilovolt network and in Sodo, due to the takeover of the planning of projects carried out for economic public service by the contractual partners; therefore, due to the increased volume in this area, including information technologies, in the financial and regulatory fields. We estimate that the current state of communication with the management of companies and the Presidents of the Supervisory Boards is appropriate twice a year and that the written portal reporting of companies is appropriate. Monitoring of the planning will also facilitate the amendment of the SDH Recommendations and expectations of this year, on the basis of which companies will then send draft business plans by the end of September of the current year for the following year. In line with what I have said, I estimate that there is no non-economic human rights behaviour in these companies and that there is no trace of it. However, for the management of other companies in the field of electricity, SDH is, as it is said, responsible. With regard to management and human resources management in these companies, I cannot give an appropriate response here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u219	Mr Ljubo Žnidar would like a word to complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. I must say that I agree with your answers that you, as Minister, are not the direct supervisor; or that you are responsible for certain incorrect observations. In fact, you are in some way an integral part of the government, and you can demand certain answers to certain observations that we see and to certain irregularities. Because if it's an irrational treatment of government money, then the responsibility is even greater. Let me give you two examples that also come from a case of bad practice. One thing is that quite a number of these electricity companies are giving out a substantial or extensive share of construction works in their larger investments without public calls. If this is about state institutions, this should not be the case. For example TES, an 11 million administrative building was built on the basis of orders. These things are unacceptable to me. Moreover, it is even more unsensual that all the biggest projects carried out by the electricity industry are carried out strictly without companies owned by the State. For example, without the DRI, which is owned by the state, we know that it has the greatest professional engineering and consulting potential in the country. These are examples of bad practice and I also believe that there should be some answers here.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u221	Minister Gašperšič, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u222	With regard to these human resources decisions here, I cannot really comment on why these decisions have taken place at SDH. I can only assume that they have assessed that the period before HSE is difficult. We know that the company is in a difficult situation where it is in a position to recover or ensure a successful operation at the burden of financing the construction of the TES 6 block and, on the other hand, the difficult situation on the electricity market, where we know that the price of electricity prevailing on the market is lower from year to year. Certainly, there are challenging times and challenges for HSE society. I can only assume that the guide, which led SDH, has in some way strengthened control of this society. As far as the other irregularities mentioned in these companies are concerned, let's say public investment orders are being implemented without invitation to tender under the Public Procurement Act, I can say that, if this is indeed the case, we have already changed the rules in this direction in this mandate, so that the supervision of these companies can also be carried out by institutions such as the Court of Auditors. We are expecting and counting because we know that the Court of Auditors is already revising the situation in TES. If such errors have occurred, I am counting on the Court of Auditors to find out and point out this. I could have answered so many of these things in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u223	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak wants to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, who is absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. On 30 June 2016, we were informed, through the means of public information, that 37 workers who had unexpectedly received a letter from the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia had turned to the Migrants Advisory Office to respond to their requests and to terminate them from their tax resident status. On the basis of their employer’s role, last April the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia signed them off on its own as tax residents. Despite having registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, Furs granted the employer’s request and checked out all 37 workers. As a result, they lost the possibility of tax relief for dependent family members; Furs received high income calculations this year. Workers worked for the most part of the year in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, I cannot rule out the possibility that there has been another in a series of mass abuses of workers to which we have witnessed in the last period, with foreign workers being more vulnerable to violations of rights and abuses. It is therefore expected from the competent authorities that, in cases such as the latter, they are particularly careful to ensure that, before carrying out a particular procedure, they do whatever is necessary to prevent any potential abuse. In a specific case, the employer should indicate the addresses for the delivery of the replies to the registration abroad, in particular in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where there is a potential for abuse or irregularity in the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the Minister described, I ask: What is the cancellation procedure for a tax resident? How do they act in specific cases when there is suspicion of abuse of workers – Slovenian and foreign citizens – from a tax point of view? How many cases at the annual level are detected? On a case-by-case basis, please provide more detailed information on the event. What in particular will happen to the workers on the basis of supervision and findings if, of course, it is done? I would like an oral response from the Minister at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u225	Thank you, too. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Chairman. For the third development axis section of Velenje–Sentrupert section, between 4 and 18 July 2016, you prepared a presentation of the amended solutions contained in the draft State Spatial Plan for the so-called F2-2 route. The opinions of the Section of the Chamber of Architecture and Space, Citizens and Communities on the route in question are strongly negative to this route. As an alternative they propose route F6, which runs parallel to the existing Arja Vas-Valenje highway and does not cover the main road anywhere. So the transport link in the already existing spatial corridor actually doubles. The available documentation shows that in the F6 pre-evaluation procedures, the F6 route was excluded in advance from economic and environmental evaluations. The documentation shows that the input data for the preliminary assessment have been adjusted so that the F6 route has not reached enough points to be included in the follow-up procedures. The F2-2 route, on which you are unreservedly insisting as Minister, as stated to the mayors and representatives of civil initiatives at the meeting on 6 July, is more expensive than the alternative of at least 50 per cent intervention in the Natura 2000 area, does not take into account the Catastrous Caves of Slovenia, irreversibly destroys more than 100 hectares of agricultural land of the highest rating class, demolishing more than 70 buildings, mostly residential ones, away from the intermodal logistics centre in the region for at least 20 km. That's why I'm asking you: How do you think the F2-2 route is in line with the Space Strategy of Slovenia and the Transport Strategy of Slovenia as the key strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia for space and transport? In your opinion, how do the procedures for the production of the State Spatial Plan for Route F2-2 comply with the provisions of the Aarhus Convention ratified by the Republic of Slovenia and therefore apply directly? Can you deny parallels to the investment in Block 6 of the Šostjanj Thermoelectrica when the investor followed the logic of the facts carried out and took into account only the "expert" which it fully attached, carried out justifications for the investment with the adjusted input data and failed to determine the final prices before the decision on the start of the construction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u227	Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u228	Mr Matjaž Hanžek, honourable Member, thank you for the question. You yourself have already stated that last week we had a public presentation of the optimized version of F2-2, which the government had previously confirmed as a variant for which implementation documentation is being prepared. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we manage state spatial plans for a number of investments. Only the Ministry in the case of a route or highway that will follow the variant F2-2 is not an investor, but we are conducting the procedure. The questions addressed to me somehow coincide with the questions to which we have answered this public presentation, namely, this Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia was taken into account at the beginning of the process itself. The procedure dates back to 2004, and this process of adoption of the State Spatial Plan has been going on for 12 years. It is true that if it forms a network of remote road links of international importance, the network is not only of cross-border importance, but also of national importance. And when you ask me whether this dilemma is whether this axis of F2-2 is in line with the Strategy for the Spatial Development of Slovenia, this dilemma was resolved at the very beginning of the preparation of the VAT, that is in 2004. A key question to be answered before each State Spatial Plan starts is whether all variants that are then studied in the variant study meet these objectives of the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia. And even in the study of variants, a lot of variants have been ranked since 2004, after an annual discussion came up with a variant. And when we talk about your second question, it is the provisions of the Aarhus Convention that civil initiatives or we as citizens have the opportunity to directly influence or comment on State spatial plans. Yes, we have them, including our ministry in the procedures not only of choice of variants, but of agreed in the procedures of State spatial plans, leading discussions on the ground, by the municipalities where they are taking place. As I said at this meeting, I must also say here, in the National Assembly, that it is virtually impossible to drive a national spatial plan in agreement with the inhabitants, with the citizens. This is because, in preparing these state spatial plans in Slovenia, the empty space is virtually too small or almost not; or because we have many forest areas where the inhabitants do not live. We do not lead to roads, power lines, gas pipelines or any other facility, as such investment is of no importance. During the preparation phase of the 2007 and 2008 variant study, all presentations were prepared and then in 2012 the government decided that this variant of F2-2 was acceptable, that it was prepared well enough for implementation itself. Later, several other options were reviewed and in 2015 the government adopted this variant of F2-2 and went into further documentation preparation procedures. I still have one answer left, if I'm allowed, then I'd give it to you in the other part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u229	Mr Matjaž Hanžek would like a word to complement the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, there's something I haven't learned. But I do have a few analyses here, say in 2015, an analysis of the design of the third development axis and so on, where they compare with the legality of the European directives. For example, "for these reasons also the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Directorate notes that interference with agricultural land protection is unacceptable". Both Directives, called Environmental Impact Assessment and Strategic Environmental Assessment, have been breached in our view. From the environmental report so far prepared, it is not clear that the prescribed conditions would be satisfied and so on, I will not read. In 2011, five years ago – we know that this has been planned for 12 years – the Interdepartmental Working Group gave an opinion that the proposal of the most appropriate variants, the government, this is called F2-2, is not sufficiently clear. It therefore considers that it should be further substantiated; that the methodology for assessing impacts, as set out in the Environmental Report Regulation, not to quote further, for the field of impact assessment on agricultural land is inappropriate and allows for different interpretations; that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition has not agreed on the procedures for preparing the State Spatial Plan or verifying the appropriateness of the environmental report. The Interdepartmental Working Group estimates that planning the implementation of any of the new road connections between the motorways is wrong. But I will be more specific, almost 119 hectares across from 13 hectares, the price of 300 million versus 200 million and so on. But the question was, put it on the list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u231	Thank you, Mr. Hanzek. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u232	A comparison of prices that have been made on the basis of ideas and now, when practically in the execution of the route itself, it is so far established that all the cost elements are known, of course, is not to be maintained anywhere. And unfortunately not in this case either. However, it is strange that the government has already confirmed the F2-2 as the most appropriate option in April 2008; it is true that this option has not been optimized to the extent that we have now prepared it with the expert services of the Agricultural Forestry Institute or the Agricultural Institute. In my knowledge of spatial planning, I am convinced that no other option would be acceptable; there is no option where there would not be a settlement where there would not be some good. In some variants we also have water supply. It is always possible to convince the general public that this is an inappropriate option. We who are in charge of the process are following that, within multiple variants, together with the investor, we find the way to make the investment work. This motorway connection between A1 and Velenje is of course necessary, especially if we are talking about the road connection with Koroška. At least I don't see what to compare this project with TES, but it's a completely different arrangement. Surely, however, there is a greater opportunity for the inhabitants – we take Koroška or take the Velenjians and all with this road connection – because the highway connection for the thefts means a new economic boom, which in every way means a major positive effect for the economy of that region in the long term. However, I am aware that all these effects cannot be assessed today. However, we can assess that existing production must also continue and expand its economic potential through appropriate road links. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek would like a word for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u234	I suggest we discuss this in the next session. Madam Minister, you yourself have confirmed that the connection to TES is 6. I do not object, on the contrary – I wish that this road was made as quickly as possible; but you turn first. And I want it to be done with as little social damage as possible, as little environmental damage as possible and as little cost as possible. And you turn it like I'm against the road. No, the same thing happened in TES 6. The one who said it needed to be done more rationally, not to spend 300 million, was accused of being against getting electricity. Thank you very much. They said it was the same. That's why I'm gonna ask you where those arguments are. According to the government's option, 119 hectares with an average rating of 690, the highest quality land are destroyed. The second version of 13 hectares. By this option, these are older financial numbers, you said you have new ones, but you haven't told me yet, I only have the last ones. The price of the government route is 314 million, the price of the variant is 218 million. 100 million differences, one third cheaper. Under this option, which the government advocates, 108 buildings, 43 of them residential, will be destroyed. Secondly, the alternative option is to demolish 9 buildings, of which 3 apartment houses. I have not heard a single argument in favour of the government; except that the government had already said in 2008, I showed you, on 15 July 2011, the government put forward a report by the Interdepartmental Commission, where they said it was nothing. I will not read again, since I read earlier on or on another issue. Any better answers, except that it is necessary to do so and that wherever they place the road, people will oppose it. Of course, those who will; but the state must decide something already to get Koroška and Velenska Cauldron to have a new and better connection. If we did not insist on the biggest and most expensive project, perhaps something would have been done; but because it always insists on the most expensive project, it is not. However, it is also necessary to listen to people, so I suggest that we discuss this issue at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 13 July. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacic will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, a question. Since the Minister is excusedly absent, please define how to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u236	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nice greeting to all of you who are still here! I'm glad there's a lot of us. My question is also addressed to the Minister of Finance, who is unfortunately absent today. The question, however, relates to the calculation of the income at the time of self-declaration. On the basis of the applicable Tax Procedure Act, taxable persons who are not provided with an information calculation of income by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia by 15 June must be obliged to delay the deadline for submitting a tax return, which is 31 July, on the basis of a self-declaration. The Institute of Self-Login in practice unfortunately shows some shortcomings, particularly in the case of non-compliance with allowances for dependent family members. I therefore ask the Minister: How do you plan to remedy your shortcomings? Will the recognition of a specific income allowance for dependent family members in the event of a self-declaration be regulated by a sectoral law? Thank you in advance for your reply to the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u237	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mrs Vesna Vervega will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the rest of you present and welcome. Dear Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, one of the important challenges of education throughout the vertical range from kindergarten to higher education is the care of highly gifted individuals. Internationally, such assistance or encouragement is given to schooling children and adolescents. The concepts of working with talented students and students are also known in the Slovenian educational system, which are adapted to individual schools according to their abilities and current needs. It is my opinion that we should not neglect this area or that it is important that we give it enough attention together within the department you run. The concept of work to detect and work with talented students was adopted in 1999 by the Slovenian Professional Council for General Education. That's why I'm asking you: Do you estimate that the concept works to detect and work with talented students still corresponds to the current state and needs of working with talented students? Are his changes planned and in what form? What measures do you follow about promoting work with talented students and adolescents at systemic level at the Ministry? How could innovative learning environments contribute to this by already paying attention to them at the Ministry of Public Procurement? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u240	Dear President, Your Honor, Madam Members! It is certainly one of the more up-to-date and important issues that we face not only in education but in society. That is why in this mandate in the Ministry of this area, namely, the area of the development of talented – first of all the identification of talented – and the systemic placement of talented solutions have already given us quite a bit of attention. A working group was appointed at the Institute for Education of the Republic of Slovenia in the past year to prepare an update on the concept of detection and work with talented people. This refers to the answer to your question whether the 1999 concept is still acceptable, and it is well thought out in the light of the changed situation. The answer is that the working group has already drawn up proposals and this concept will also be proposed in autumn for adoption by the Slovenian Council of Experts on General Education. It is a group composed of advisers from the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia and higher education experts in this field. We know that individual schools, principals and other experts within the various institutes are already actively involved in this area, also because of the changed conditions of operation in society and the changed concepts of detection not only at the professional level but also at the actual implementation level and in working with the talented. The key novelty or direction of development and reflection is that the concept proposal contains the identification and detection of talent, in particular models of support within regular learning to talented and in some way enriching programs or activities that identify or can also direct gifted people in their curiculative and career development. Inside learning, this reflection also provides for inclusive educational work with talented, personalisation of learning and the justification of expectations, methods and methods of working with talented people. It is a broader thinking that will then have to have proper application. As you know, and as you have already mentioned, in the context of the implementation of the measures, this is mainly within the concept of innovative learning environments, this is one of the examples of verification and guidance of such concepts, and it will be important to develop new approaches in the curriculum and also by relying on external stakeholders of schools as a way of creating those supportive environments that in some way detect, guide and then promote the development of the talented. What we have done recently at the Ministry is also a very interesting project, which has also provided many grounds for this conceptual reflection, this is the Knowledge of the Future, which we carried out by 2014. It included several schools, thirteen secondary schools, including various institutes such as research institutions, including research institutes. This was an example of how research, the scientific work of motivated students, and at the same time their talents and talents are promoted. However, since there have been a number of such projects and the systematic enrichments are those calling for development, we have recently with representatives of the Centre for the Promotion and Development of talent at the Faculty of Education and the already mentioned Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, the Association for Technical Culture of Slovenia, the Association of Mathematicians and physicists, and so on have brought together species and looked at this concept of talented people. We can see that the real system solution is in building support environments. From here, the accelerated preparation of the concept of innovative learning environments as a type of funding within cohesion resources and to go to the so-called network of regional points that act as a support unit to those who want to guide this development, in particular the development of talented young people by means of relevant support institutions, including public institutions, either research or higher education, and measures that provide analytical professional support, in particular through peer evaluation, including evaluation, so that we can better, even systematically build a comprehensive approach first of detection, and then direct the support of the talented. It is a very important topic, but we cannot update it overnight, as we call it, but it is thoughtful and also in the spirit of needs that these young ones have different than they once were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vervega, please, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u242	Thank you. I have one more question. Actually, I'd like a better opinion. As innovative and excellent practices with the most talented in other countries, research centres aimed at talented students have shown themselves not very far from us and focus primarily on involving young people in research work. Such centres are, for example, the Višnjan Scientific Educational Centre and the Petnica Research Station in Serbia. I believe that such a centre would also be an excellent opportunity for us to connect the education system early with science on the one hand and the economy on the other. That's why I want to know: Would it be appropriate to think more broadly about such a research centre, which would not only mean an encouraging environment for talented youths but also for the economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u243	Mrs. Vervega, thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u244	Thank you very much, chairman. It is also in this direction that we are considering how to develop such centres, of course with Slovenian givenness and the inclusion of as many stakeholders as possible. Not only is interest in a different environment, but there is also interest on the part of employers, those who want to accelerate research also in order to promote new talent, to discover new talent, and in particular some schools that have already focused on the concepts of talent development – each can be included in the wider environment in its own specific way. It is for these reasons that cohesion funds during this period also focus on the identification and development of such needs, and in particular on where and in what way such centres should be brought back to life. Many good points have already been put in place not only within the school system but also in the wider environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Chairman. On 9 June, the Ombudsman held a fourth regular meeting with representatives of civil society in the field of environment and space in 2016. The meeting was again dedicated to the issue of pollution of the Celje Valley and was also attended by representatives of the Ministry of the Environment. Three years have passed since the previous meeting with the Ombudsman on the same subject. During this time nothing has moved, no concrete remedial measures have been taken, except for the removal of hazardous waste from the Celje Park due to the threat of an action by the European Commission. Analyses are still being made, although it is clear to everyone today how highly the cell boiler is contaminated and that pollution has a strong impact on the health status of the population. Last year, the Environ report, commissioned and paid by Cincarna Celje itself, showed that there are also alarmingly high concentrations of toxic substances in the new location of Cinkarna in the soil and water: cadmium, arsenic, cobalt, lead. But most of all, there are zinc and copper in the sky absorbing content. These are almost once more in the earth than the zinc content of zinc in zinc ore, which is commercially used to produce zinc. Attic dust and polluted land around Cincarna are, in fact, the best quality zinc ore. Analyses from playgrounds and kindergartens showed that children are playing in contaminated soils this year, as heavy metal content exceeds the warning value. Since they do not go beyond critical, it was then a little balanced, since they only play on polluted soils, not on heavily polluted soils. In cooperation with experts, the Municipality of Celje has prepared a protocol for children's play in sandstones. This is how we face soil pollution. Things are getting a little rejuvenated when they're not that bad, and there's some warnings about how to deal with kindergartens, and pollution continues. The Ombudsman notes that nothing is happening with regard to the rehabilitation of pollution in Celje. That's why I'm asking: Why hasn't the Ministry of Environment and Space done anything for years to stop pollution in Cel? Why doesn't the Ministry of Environment and Space declare a wider area around Cinkarna as a degraded area? Why has the Ministry of the Environment and Space done nothing for years to remedy environmental damage and prevent health threats to the population? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u248	Mr Matjaž Hanžek, honourable President, thank you for the question. In determining what has been done in the Ministry of the Environment over a period of several years with the pollution of the Celje Valley, I hope to say that something has been done, in terms of preparing documentation or baselines. You said yourself about cleaning up hazardous waste in the park. We did this this year. It is true, however, that the municipality of Celje also carried out the rehabilitation of the land that was dug up at the time of the construction of the building. This rehabilitation took almost three years, under certain conditions it could be carried out and also concluded. It is true that we ourselves are conducting the procedure for the rehabilitation of the plot number 115/1 k.o. Teharje. These are the embankments that were implemented in 2006, 2007, 2008. A technical expertise is being prepared, which is currently being tested by the European Commission to ensure that roads are brought in in a manner that is legally appropriate. I would like to say that this year we received the transposition of the IED Directive. This is a European directive that discusses the appropriateness of operators in environmental permits. However, the transposition of these Directives has not been carried out in the past. The transposition of the IED Directives also means that new reporting baselines will have to be drawn up in all environmental authorisation companies to comply with all the relevant criteria, which are of paramount importance for the current soil pollution. To talk about how to save, the different numbers, I will use the number that is often used, 600 hectares of polluted soil in the Celje Cauldron is a bigger matter in terms not only of performing works but also covering costs. In the Environmental Protection Act, it laid down that if someone causes pollution, the originator pays it. If we are talking about the degraded area of the Mežična Valley, the situation is quite different from that of the Celje Valley, where these companies are still in operation and are responsible for the rehabilitation of those inappropriate procedures that they are in the past or are still in the sense of polluting Celje in implementation. If I say otherwise, environmental permits will have to meet new conditions and introduce appropriate technology into their production processes. This also means costs in certain cases, but it is not possible to give up in standards. It is true, however, that the land regulation, which Slovenia has so far had more than a record of the quality of the soil that agricultural land is supposed to have, is in preparation; there were quite a few comments. I also acknowledge that the professional institutions have had a lot of work done with the preparation of these standards, so that they are currently in the process of extending their comments. It is, however, a basic document that will in some way indicate whether an area is contaminated or not. If we are talking about kindergartens, let us remember, in Ljubljana it has been shown that the soil in a kindergarten is inadequate or that it is such pollution that it has gone into processing. Of course, these kindergarten rooms have been retrained for playing children, and this will also have to be done in Celje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Hanžek has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u250	Thank you. I'm afraid that this will continue to be a solution in such a way that, as you said before, failure to give in to standards will happen. The Ministry of Environment and Space recently put in place a draft new Regulation on soil conditions in public. The values to be exceeded by individual metals in your new proposal are twice as high as the current limit values in the Regulation. In particular, the limit value for cadmium, i.e. the value by which the effects or effects on human or environmental health are still acceptable, is currently 1 milligrams per kilogram of dry matter, and in your new proposal there is a knowledge that the condition of children's kindergartens should be good if it does not exceed 2 milligrams per kilogram. It's similar to nickel and so on. In agricultural land and residential areas, these values will be much higher. Experts argue that the new proposal for a regulation is also a way to avoid some areas being declared degraded, including some areas in Celje. In the draft new regulation, the old regulation is only mentioned in the previous and final provisions, which state when it will cease to apply, and not once is it mentioned in the introduction, why such a regulation is adopted in the first place. That's why I want to know: What does the new soil condition regulation mean for its inhabitants in the Celia Cauldron? Will life be healthier because of other values? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u252	I agree with you in any way. The regulation will not allow for a healthier life anywhere in Slovenia, unfortunately this cannot be resolved by a regulation. It would be more than desirable to be able to, but of course it can't be. It is true, however, that the regulation sets parameters for the whole of Slovenia. As you yourself have mentioned, the honourable Member, there are different parameters for different categories of land. For agricultural land one, where residential areas, playgrounds, school playgrounds are different, and for areas where production is different. I have already said that not only in the Celje boiler, but about 200 companies have an environmental permit in Slovenia. All will have to prepare a baseline report in accordance with the IED Directives adopted. The fact is that in the past environmental pollution has not been sufficiently addressed to ensure that production processes are different, less targeted at environmental protection, more focused on the work and earnings of employees. Today, citizens, including employees, turn to our employers differently, also require appropriate working conditions and, of course, as little air pollution as possible, soil, water. In Cel, companies will also draw up appropriate solutions in the preparation of these baseline reports. Since the Environmental Protection Act provides for – and this is also in line with the European orientation to pay for the cause – companies will most likely be the payer for the recovery of individual parts to be carried out in the future. However, if we are talking about the quality of the external air, we also have the resources that we are decommissioning through the Eco Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Hanžek, please, you have a request for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u254	Of course, I have a request for a procedural proposal. From the discussion we have so far, at least it seems to me that we will be solving the situation in such a way as to raise acceptable pollution. We're here now, and then we'll be somewhere else. In fact, the state of the environment in the Celia Cauldron is catastrophic. Slovenia has already received an official reminder from the European Commission by the end of April this year. In response to this warning, the government promises a new measuring station because the existing five stations, according to the Ministry of Environment and Space and the government, do not show sufficiently that air quality is poor or good; or is actually on the dog. In addition, the Ministry of Environment and Space is coming to the public with a draft regulation on soil conditions, which, as I mentioned earlier, will mean a significant deterioration in the quality of environmental standards in Slovenia and will place the population of degraded areas in an unequal position compared to the inhabitants of the Mežica Valley, so that no one would think that there is a need to lower them; no, on the contrary, the same standards should be applied here – which was adopted by the Regulation on the rehabilitation of the Mežica Valley on the basis of the regulation of borders, alerts and critical values of hazardous substances in the country. Therefore, I demand that we discuss this and that the people of Celje, as well as the crowd of others, or at least a few other areas in Slovenia, may know when the country will make sure that they also enjoy at least approximately non-contaminated air, land, so that children can play in the sand without fear of being made of toxic substances in the earth for the disabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 13 July, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Violeta Tomic will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In October 2010, the Ministry of Justice drafted a proposal for a law on the recovery of property damage suffered by Yugoslav citizens during World War II in the territory of the current Republic of Slovenia. The proposal is intended to identify beneficiaries – Yugoslav nationals who suffered damage between 6. 4. 1941 and 9. 5. 1945, and their legal successors – types of recognised damage and proof. The above limit of compensation to an individual is EUR 150,000, compensation is to be decided by the administrative unit on the basis of the documents submitted, a description of the property damage, the application on the basis of the post-war censuses and so on. The details of the solutions are presented in the newspaper Delo on 5 October 2010 with the article War Damage Contributor will be the Republic of Slovenia. Although the occupying units have caused compensation, they would be liable to compensation from the Republic of Slovenia. This is, of course, unusual, given that even according to the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar – this refers to the answer to my question of 30. 3. 2015 – The Republic of Slovenia has not waived the claims of war damage to Germany. That's what he said. In addition to Greece, I should point out that Yugoslavia was the very country that had paid at least the war damage to Germany and that the victims of individual damages had never received any compensation. A while ago, a successful private collective action was brought by some Slovenian exiles, who, through the Swiss law firm, filed damages for damage to the seized property managed by a German parastatal company. But it is only a drop into the sea against all the damage caused. In this regard, I will ask the Minister the following questions: Do you agree with the basic solutions in the draft in question, in particular as regards the definition of beneficiaries, the method of proof of compensation and the taxpayer for payment? Are you intending to submit the relevant law or its amended version to the parliamentary procedure? Is the debt of neighbouring occupying countries for the damage caused still valid? What will you do or will you do to recover that debt? Are you prepared to assist the injured and their descendants in applying compensation claims to foreign countries on a judicial basis? Thank you very much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u258	Thank you for your word, Vice President of the National Assembly. Member of Parliament; Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Fellow Members! Initially, I should like to explain that the issue of possible regulatory regulation of the area of property damage recovery from World War II concerns many ministries. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Justice, in 2008, not in 2010, drafted a draft law on the compensation of property damage from World War II, which has not been substantially changed since the draft, as it was prepared, nor has any government put it into further procedure. What I'm thinking as Minister of Justice may be a little bit more aside here. On 10 March 2016, on this issue, the Government also made a statement at the special initiative of NSi Ive Dimic, who proposed the adoption of this Act. It's a broad answer that we'll also give you if you want. And now I will only draw those key points from it. You are right, indeed, the damages for property damage from World War II have never been compensated for property damage, for destroyed homes, for business premises, for various props and so on; that is, for the damage caused by the invaders of World War II. It is also true that the legal basis which could constitute the legal basis for the payment of such damage can only be the law. The Constitution or international obligations do not in itself give rise to such an obligation and the law should therefore be adopted. Reports of war damage from Germany or Italy, according to the reliable experiences and the opinion of our foreign ministry, have been reported to us, are not expected. We have also carefully reviewed the case law at the Ministry on this issue. The fact is, as it is said, the only basis could be the adoption of a law that has not been taken out of a drawer for a long time. I also met with representatives of the Association of Injured Persons myself, and I sincerely feel for their legitimate efforts. However, the current financial consequences or the estimated financial consequences of the adoption of such a law are unacceptable in view of the Government's view. The cost would be between €550 million and €800 million, according to very low estimates; not to mention lengthy proceedings before the Administrative Court. With regard to your question about the current debt of neighbouring, formerly occupying countries, I can answer you that I do not have this information, nor do I have information on the possible actions of private individuals, any of them, except what you yourself have mentioned. No one has ever addressed the Ministry of Justice in this regard. In other words and briefly, this is one matter which is one of the rest of our past, which the Republic of Slovenia probably did not fully and adequately resolve. However, the fact is that at this point, according to the Government, the government's opinion was adopted, at this point in time in a way that would burden the state treasury for almost billions of euros, we cannot afford it at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić, please, you have a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u260	As we both agree, Slovenia is one of the countries to which the occupying forces have virtually not paid off the war damage. The victims and their descendants have been waiting for 70 years. They waited patiently, but the state of Slovenia was eliminating some alleged injustices at that time, as it were said, denationalisation and so forth; while it had forgotten about these damages, it is said that exile and arson. Your ministry, as it was said, has drafted a law on compensation for property damage. Under this law, the Republic of Slovenia would pay compensation to the descendants of the owners of these properties. Of course, this damage should also be demonstrated by what would be used to describe the war damage done by the human authority after the war. Here I would point out two categories, Italian and German units have often burned whole villages out of revenge, and the victims of these measures are referred to as arsonists. On the other hand, the occupation also caused enormous damage to the properties of the exiles. The assessment was that the total damage to property alone is around EUR 3.5 billion, without any interest or revalue. I want to know: Has the government in any way ever raised this issue of bilateral relations with the Federal Republic of Germany? Is the government willing to help the victims, such as the Association of Evictions of Slovenia, in such efforts? Of course, it is a large sum of money, but these people feel neglected, for other compensations were returned at that time. I want to know: Would we be supporting such a proposal as the United Left as a cabinet minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u262	Thank you very much. You said - 70 years, I agree, terrible. It is, however, a fact that the independent country of the Republic of Slovenia is difficult to resolve and negotiate with Germany and Italy after we have lived in another common country for so many and many decades, which has regulated these things differently. Did we open these things up in a bilateral, or did the government do it, frankly, I don't know, because it's not my jurisdiction. I can say that we have received information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that here, as we say, very much hearing from Germany or Italy is not to be expected, if I may say so. If, in concrete cases, as you mentioned from Switzerland, certain civil groups have addressed us with any request or initiative for legal assistance, we will certainly respond positively to our ministry within our options. But as for this, if someone else is to file this law and it's a question of whether to support it, that's how it is. Morally always because I think it's the damage that's caused, and it's the injustices that have never been paid. However, I am not sure whether it is right for the Republic of Slovenia to do so today and with a financial contribution that we simply cannot accept at this time. I must therefore say that I was also a member of the government when it decided on the reply, as I mentioned earlier, on the initiative of Ambassador Iva Dimic. I voted in favour of the answer as it was, and that is that we are not going into procedure with this law right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić, you have a request for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u264	The Slovenian political class behaves cycling – down pushes and bows down. And in the area of internal policy, it oppresses workers and socially disadvantaged people, and it worships capital, particularly foreign ones. You say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not excited to participate, but that foreign policy is working strongly towards Croatia, while at the same time it is completely subordinate to Austria and Germany. On the one hand, we have already taken the initiative to notify the Austrian State Treaty, and they are not here too excited to launch anything; on the other hand, they do not hope to raise the issue of war compensation with Germany. This confirms Prime Minister Cerar's response and also your answer today. Mr Cerar said several times that Slovenia had not written off the debt, but immediately after that he also made it clear that it would not open the question because we need to be a constructive member of the European Union. He even said this, "Slovenia took a fundamental and crucial decision in 2004 to join the European Union, in fact to show that we too, as part of a united Europe, are beginning to go beyond the historical division and legacy of World War II on the principles of solidarity, cohesion and justice." We, who have been the victim of German aggression, who have renounced sovereignty and our currency by joining the European Union in favour of Germany, must now renounce war in solidarity with this European Union. That logic to me, I'm sorry, it's not clear. Then one wonders what else we would have to give up in order to let us into the most connected part of Europe, the most privileged part of Europe in which we so wish to come to do everything for it. And that's what President Pahor calls for. And it is no wonder that the European Union, because of such perverse logic and perverse solidarity of the poor with the rich, falls apart before our eyes. As we hear, the government will not try to recover war compensation from Germany, even though you are aware that the matter is criminal. Nor does the government intend to assume German obligations from its citizens, so our citizens can rely only on themselves and their societies, but the government obviously cannot help them. So we have an eloquent case of some real social problem, which the government is not somehow capable of solving, and I therefore propose that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on these Minister's replies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Madam Members, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 13 July. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. People of Illyrian Bistrica have suffered severe industrial pollution for decades. At one time, the main source of the Organic Acids Factory was the one that left over 100,000 tons of hazardous waste at the Globovnik landfill, which, due to erosion and slow action by the country, then went into the environment for years. Today, however, the main source of pollution is the apparent timber plate factory. The inhabitants of Illyrian Bistrica complain of wood dust covering their living areas, gardens and cars. In addition to the fact that wood dust itself is harmful to health, it is all the more worrying because Lesotho also uses toxic formaldehydes in the production of fibre boards. According to the Environment Agency, in 2014, Lesotho blew up more than 11,000 kilograms of formaldehyde, more than 27,000 kilograms of total dust and more than 58,000 kilograms of organic pollutants. The measurements are supposed to be within legally defined limits, but residents can show with photographs and videos of cars and balconies covered with wood dust. The problem is also noise pollution, which causes the nerves and the sleep of the surrounding inhabitants, which has also resulted in a fine being imposed on Lesotho. The lesonite complained of the punishment, while at the same time local civil initiatives, which seek a clean environment, also threatened legal proceedings due to alleged malignment in the media. The measurements carried out by Lesotho are considered controversial by the representatives of the local community. First of all, they are carried out by the contractor himself and therefore are not independent; secondly, there is a problem of transparency. Last year, a member of the Lesonita administration, Mr Egon Bratož, stated that the measurements were not made to the public and that they did not intend to do so because they were supposed to expose themselves to competition. I see no reason why the company would be exposed to competition if it made public its emission data. Some companies, such as Ljubljana's TE-TOL, show real time. We see them at the moment they happen. Emissions can, of course, be manipulated, although the total quantity can be within the limits. In a short period of time, the operator of the device may exceptionally increase the emissions and reduce them in another. The average is thus below the limit values, but the environment is over-polluted at a certain time. Arso does not carry out continuous air quality measurements in Illyrian Bistrica. The Sineka project also does not provide for an expansion of the network of permanent measuring sites. That's why I'm asking you: How do you plan to ensure that Lesotho operates all the time within legal limits? How do you plan to ensure future independence of emission measurement and noise pollution by Lesotho? Are you planning to take any measures to improve the environmental problem in the municipality of Ilirska Bistrica, which will therefore benefit the population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u268	Thank you for the question, honourable Member, Mr Vatovec. On the question, you are focusing on Ilirska Bistrica, and I would generally say that operational monitoring or analysis in Slovenia is systematically regulated in companies, namely the Environmental Protection Act. This does not necessarily mean that companies carry out analyses themselves, but acquire accredited laboratories or contractors and carry out these monitoring activities. In this part, we believe that the arrangements will continue. Accredited laboratories, however, are committed to objective sampling. If I go to the easy part, I go to the noise area. In 2013 and 2014, several measures were implemented in Lesotho. According to the information I obtained from the inspections, there was only one complaint about noise last year. I think that the company has implemented these appropriate measures in a way that does not disturb the environment. However, I agree with you that emissions, especially dust particles, are difficult to talk about for a longer period, but in 2012 they have already been processed by inspection services, was a decision to authorise enforcement. Then, as usual with these companies, a complaint was lodged with the Administrative Court, which issued a decision in this January and the action was rejected. Thus, enforcement has already been carried out 24. 5. 2016, which means that the debtor paid this fine. It is true, however, that the enforcement decision lays down a new deadline within which the debtor must be placed at another important release, that is, a second-stage dryer, to install measuring devices to show the concentration and the total dust, which we will monitor closely through the inspection procedures. On the following business days, I am confident that this company will leave less in the environment than is allowed. It is true, however, that Lesonit d.o.o. does not have an environmental permit, which means that it is not controlled by inspections as strictly as those companies – in Slovenia there are about 200 – and they have environmental permits. According to data, production capacity is expected to be less than 600 cubic metres per day. For this reason, the operator of the environmental authorisation device does not need to be obtained either. But it will also be possible that production itself will be so interesting. However, if an entity requires an environmental authorisation, it is also easier to carry out the monitoring of releases on a watchful basis than it is to do. With regard to the Sinic project, however, I can say that in terms of implementation or watching over air quality in Slovenia, cohesion funds are being acquired which will allow for easier or more vigilant monitoring throughout Slovenia. This means that individual mobile units will also allow the general implementation of the analysis in Illyrian Bistrica to be carried out in terms of control or data display, i.e. the accredited laboratory itself, accompanied by Lesonit and Salonit, as I said, this mobile unit of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec will request a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u270	Some things went wrong, you're going to fix them, the lab is accredited, and in some ways, it's already committed to some kind of merility or independence. The releases are about on average at the appropriate or legal level, but I think the actual experience of the inhabitants and residents of Illyrian Bistrica is different. Here I would refer to a further study called the Health Survey of the Municipality of Ilirska Bistrica. This study notes, inter alia, that mortality due to respiratory disease in the age group from 0 to 64 years in the administrative unit of Illyrian Bistrica is 50% higher than in the whole Kore region and 30% higher than the national average. The mortality rate for cardiovascular disease in the administrative unit of Illyrian Bistrica is 34% higher than the regional average and 22% higher than the national average. These are some of the worrying data from this study. On the basis of these findings, it is also assessed that environmental factors are not a negligible risk factor and that further in-depth studies, particularly in the field of environmental factors and the healthy lifestyle of the population, including risk factors in the living environment and exposure at work, would be appropriate. I'd like to ask you here further: Do you believe that the health situation of the population in Illyrian Bistrica is linked to the industrial pollution we have witnessed in the past and today? History seems to repeat itself and to allow pollution, legal loopholes and similar excuses to protect the interests of capital. But no one can hear the inhabitants. Will the cost of the rehabilitation of today's pollutants be borne by the state, as was then; will you be preparing additional measures at the Ministry to prevent this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u272	Dear Member! Since I'm the Minister of Environment and Space myself, I'm going to allow myself to comment on your health-related data. Not that I don't want to, but because I don't know. It is true, however, that the idea of the Cross Valley for rehabilitation to be implemented through the state's financial resources seems to have come into many areas. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the mine has gone bankrupt in the Mežíska Valley and that is why the state is paying for this rehabilitation; otherwise, as I have already said in one reply before, the Environmental Protection Act has provided for the originator to pay. There was a tragedy in the valley of Mezhica, at least for my understanding, completely different. The mine placed the heifer on its premises and allowed, allowed, allowed for the locals to unload it throughout the whole congregation for road-stressing purposes. Contrary to what we're talking about right now, when you're imagining that Lesotho is the main cause in this room. If this barrenness had not spread throughout the congregation in Měžica, the limits of pollution would have been quite different from those of today, when this barren pollution could be solved in a way that would cover the roads with asphalt. Studies show that lead levels in children’s blood are lower, and this year this analysis confirmed this. I admit that all of us, together with the people of the Mishik valley, can be happy that this is the case. Therefore, the State's payment for the Mishik Valley is more exceptional than the rule. But to expect the state to be in the direction of paying the bailout, I don't think it's real. There are many cases where we are talking about the poor health of the environment. Please refer to the relevant resources in terms of commenting on health findings; I really cannot comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u273	Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please, a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u274	In the light of the answers, I also believe that the Ministry of the Environment is part of the responsibility of the health situation, as it is a polluter located in a certain area. I think that the data I have given, especially as regards discharges, is that some plants release relatively high quantities of certain particles into the atmosphere, which are potentially harmful, something that both ministries probably need to deal with together or in cooperation. I also believe that some discussions have been over; if not, it would be a time for them to flee. In view of what I have heard in my reply, and also in view of the latest amendment to the Environmental Protection Act adopted, I think that the Ministry of the Environment is not working in favour of the environment, but rather to be more involved in adapting the legislative framework and monitoring in a way that minimises the so-called administrative barriers that enable the dirty industry to earn profits on the basis of externalising the costs of their production and transferring them to the shoulders of people. This is done primarily to the detriment of people in the local environment who have to live with this pollution, suffer from it and, as a result, suffer from it. In the event of pollution in the Illyrian Bistrica, I think there are still many unknowns. The first is definitely the rehabilitation of a landfill in Globovnik, which has been delayed for a long time. The second is the operation of Lesotho, which raises a lot of dust among the inhabitants, if I may put it this way, in a literal and transferable sense. For this reason, I believe, as regards this question and also the Minister's answers, that a general debate should be held to address these problems, which are very partisan or concerning the inhabitants of Illyrian Bistrica, in an appropriate manner. As the minister mentioned at the outset, we have a lot of similar problems in Slovenia, so we could talk a little more about this in general, especially about the shortcomings of the system that we currently have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 13 July, in the framework of the votes. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u276	Thank you for your word. And for the last time today's good-bye! Mr Minister, I will ask you a question regarding the Bank of Slovenia investigations. As you know, last week, criminals were conducting an investigation there in connection with the decommissioning of holders of subordinated bonds and small shareholders. The management of the Bank of Slovenia obviously intended to obstruct the process. The European Central Bank’s Governor, Mario Draghi, protested that the information seized by the European Central Bank was illegal. The Attorney General and the police have already responded and rejected the allegations. But I would also like your response. This is the first case of an official investigation into the rehabilitation of banks, which took place in, to say the least, suspicious circumstances. The difference between the two valuations that were made was as much as €1.5 billion and the recapitalisation was determined on the basis of the fiction that the banks were insolvent and that they were going bankrupt; although they were in fact solvent and most also liquid. Correspondence was revealed between the Ministry of Finance and officials of the European Commission who requested the deletion of small shareholders and bondholders. In fact, a directive came from the European side to make this happen. I do not claim or know whether the damage was intentionally caused. However, the fact is that the assessment of the capital deficit was unrealistic and the measures implemented were therefore disproportionate. At your ministry, you're drafting a law on the systematic investigation of bank recovery. The response of the Bank of Slovenia and the ECB shows that in some ways they have a state in the country, as we have repeatedly warned them, and that they are protecting or hiding their mistakes. If we give this immunity to European bureaucrats and their documents, I think we can forget at this point any serious or credible investigation of these developments. So in relation to these events, I ask you: Can the European Central Bank documentation be used in judicial proceedings in Slovenia? Does the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities in the European Union apply unconditionally in our legal order? How will the application of the Protocol affect the systematic investigation of bank recovery? Does it seem reasonable to you, as a anti-corruption fighter, that the documentation of any European authority in the Member States should not be used in criminal proceedings? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Member, Members and Members of Parliament! First, I will touch on the specific issue of the investigation at the location of the Bank of Slovenia. Since this is an open forecasting procedure involving several actors – police, the prosecution, the court – you will understand that the final word on the scope and content of immunity in this case will have to be given by a competent court. Therefore, take my comment only as my opinion and my view on a matter which I do not wish to prejudge. You yourself have mentioned that immunity governed by the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Union, which is in force under the Treaty of Lisbon and in addition to the European Central Bank, includes the European Monetary Fund and the European Investment Bank. The purpose of this immunity is functional. The Protocol lays down the inviolability of the premises and buildings of the Union, the inviolability of archives. The Union, its assets, revenues and other assets are also exempt from all direct taxes and customs duties in the Member States. It shall also lay down the privileges and immunities of the representatives of the Member States participating in the work of the institution, namely the privileges and immunities of officials and other servants of the Union in the territory of the Member States, as well as the privileges and immunities of the representations of third countries in the Union. However, it is difficult to understand how this immunity would be directly linked to the investigations themselves in the Bank of Slovenia. According to my assessment, the immunity of the European Central Bank does not extend to Banka Slovenije on its own but to employees in Banka Slovenije. This was clearly also an assessment by the competent investigating judge or judge, who, in addition to issuing the original order of inquiry and all the documentation, according to my information or information in the public opinion, after an objection to immunity had been made, once again decided that the investigation could continue. As it is said, it is likely that this will now be a matter of trial before a court and we will come to that answer sooner or later. As Minister, I absolutely support the prosecution's activities in investigating bank crime suspicions. I am sure that letters such as those of the Governor of the European Central Bank will not end this. I don't think we can even count them as some kind of pressure or threat to the Slovenian authorities of detection and persecution. To be honest, the Slovenian authorities of detection and prosecution and the Slovenian courts hear much worse words and more worse words in the final stage in this National Assembly; I don't mean from you. The prosecution responded, both the Attorney General and the Head of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. The police, I think, did the right thing and the way they responded, and the process continues. Your question whether I personally believe that certain documents, even though in Frankfurt, Brussels or Luxembourg, are exempt from investigations; I personally have considerable difficulties with this, I am not alone. Now, in certain cases, certain documents are excluded from the competence or reach of national authorities, even from the competences of the European Anti-Fraud Office – OLAF. You may recall the affairs of bribery of European Members in Parliament; even OLAF had serious difficulties in obtaining certain documentation by the European Parliament. Then the regulations in this area have changed in part, but I don't think it's enough. However, the documents that are available in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and this procedure shows this, will also, I believe, be obtained. In other words, I believe that these European privileges and immunities will not significantly make it difficult to investigate the Slovenian bank hole or recapitalise it. This will certainly not be the key reason or the key reason why we are not as successful in this area as we all would like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, are you requesting a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u280	Thank you. With regard to immunity, I am concerned here about how the Bank of Slovenia will eventually use it or even abuse it itself. On Friday in the National Assembly, the governor himself said: "After the investigations, it seems to me that the target is Banka Slovenije and not the bank where the loss occurred. I'm probably going to suggest as governor that we stop cooperating with the police because we obviously don't understand each other." It is said that the Governor has directly threatened to stop cooperating with the police; and he has obviously used the immunity offered to him by European legislation for this act. This issue is pertinent and will make an essential decision as to whether or not any investigation will be possible to remedy a bank hole. The second thing I would remind you of is that at the same meeting, the governor also said: "I can't help feeling that someone in the country doesn't believe that careful bank checks and stress tests were carried out in 2013 according to the rules and that Banka Slovenije is hiding documents that prove that it wanted to show the need for more recapitalisation than some imagined." It is said that the main problem is that, by what he said here, he is directly misleading the Slovenian public, because also the advisory house, which made an assessment of the quality of the asset in banks, explicitly stated that it did not work according to international accounting standards. With regard to this bank hole or rehabilitation, stories spread to all that students in Slovenia transported cars and valued values across their thumb. It's normal for no one to believe the grades they've written. This is, in my opinion, the second question you haven't answered before: Will your system-wide investigation also address this issue?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I would like to tell you again that the Bank of Slovenia will not be the one to decide what its privileges and immunities are, but will be decided by the courts. Second thing. Individuals in the Bank of Slovenia have neither the right nor the right to decide whether or not to cooperate with the police, because they are obliged to do so in the event that legal conditions are laid down for this purpose. The Governor's statement was really a little awkward, if not inappropriate, but it should probably be given in the context of the events that had taken place the day before. But as for the system's investigation, I believe it's meant for that, too. That is why we have taken the stand if the law is approved in Parliament. However, it is necessary to know that, even in the case of this law, a letter came from Frankfurt when we tabled it in Parliament, if it is not fully in line with the opinion of the European Central Bank, which we then argued against. At the final stage, however, this will be Parliament's decision. I believe there is still some sovereignty in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u283	Thank you very much. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 13 July, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 21st session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice summer night!
