ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Dr. Franc Trček, Miha Kordiš, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec by 3 p.m. and Mr. Jan Mahnic. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a bill for the resolution and forcible cessation of banks by emergency procedure. With regard to this point, two draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Banking Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Horvat, and the Proposal for a Law on the Rescue and Forced Cessation of Banks following an urgent procedure of which the Government is the proposer. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided in its debate on those draft laws to deal with them in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he concluded that the follow-up to the 127th Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the applicants of both proposals for supplementary explanations. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on bank resolution and forcible termination is definitively transposed into the national legal order by the Directive establishing a framework for the rehabilitation and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. Allow me to give you a brief overview of the essential solutions. The Bank of Slovenia will carry out the tasks and powers related to the resolution. The Bank of Slovenia will approach the resolution of the Bank of Slovenia if the bank is failing or is likely to fail, without the circumstances giving rise to the possibility that the reasons for the failure of the Bank will likely be eliminated within the appropriate time frame, while the resolution measures are necessary to protect the public interest. The principles of resolution taken into account by the Bank of Slovenia when deciding on the use of resolution instruments are very important. The shareholders of the bank in the rescue process are the first to cover the losses. For shareholders, the losses of the bank shall be borne by the holders of the capital instruments and then by the other creditors, in the reverse priority order as applicable for the payment of claims to the resolution entity in the ordinary insolvency procedure. The management and senior management of the bank are normally replaced. The responsibility of individuals and legal persons for the failure of the bank shall be established in accordance with the general rules of contractual, compensation and criminal liability. No bank creditor shall suffer greater losses than it would have suffered in the event of termination in accordance with normal insolvency proceedings, and the guaranteed deposits shall be fully protected. The law is of great importance to the pre-planned resolution of the bank in case its financial situation deteriorates for reasons on the part of the bank or for reasons that the bank cannot influence. The Bank of Slovenia will therefore have to draw up a rescue plan in advance for each bank, which will provide for which rescue measures could be implemented in the bank if it would, of course, meet the conditions for rescue. The law also acts preventively as it provides that banks must continuously provide capital and qualifying liabilities at least to the extent to which the Bank of Slovenia determines to each bank, taking into account its size, business model and risk profit. The draft law sets out five instruments for bank resolution, with the instrument for write-off and instrument for converting capital instruments or qualifying liabilities into Slovenian legal order already introduced by the November 2013 amendment of the Bank of Slovenia, and has already applied them to the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system in 2013 and 2014. In accordance with the Directive, the possibility of write-off or conversion is extended to all liabilities of the bank, with the exception of the obligations listed in the draft law. Among other things, the write-off option continues to take guaranteed deposits, i.e. deposits with the bank up to EUR 100,000. Banks will have to finance the implementation of the rescue measures themselves, as they will be able to contribute to the single resolution fund at the level determined by the single resolution committee and, under certain conditions, the deposit guarantee fund will also be able to use the funds. The use of these funds will occur if the loss of the bank cannot be fully covered by the use of resolution instruments, in particular through write-offs and conversions of capital instruments or qualifying liabilities. The law also regulates the compulsory liquidation procedure and the bankruptcy procedure of the bank. The Bank of Slovenia is specifically responsible for the conduct of the enforcement process, with the aim of paying the bank's obligations to creditors and closing the bank's operations in an orderly and supervised manner. In the event that the remaining liabilities exceed the remaining assets of the Bank of Slovenia following the completion of the enforcement liquidation procedure, the bankruptcy will be followed by the imposition of by the Court, on a proposal from the Bank of Slovenia, in accordance with the rules applicable to the ordinary insolvency proceedings. In view of all the above, I propose that you support the proposal for a law on the resolution and forcible termination of the bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u3	I also give the floor to the representative of the drafter of the bill to Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings from a respected colleague, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State with co-workers! I will speak and present the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act, which was submitted to the Parliamentary procedure on 21 April by the New Slovenia Group. The day after that, i.e. April 22nd, we requested a general debate with a sufficient number of signatures. However, this general debate has been silenced, rejected in a non-democratic, unethical way, I can say that in a scandalous way too. In advance, I apologize for perhaps a few harsh words that will be spoken at this point today by our Group of Members. We find that this is an unacceptable example of the opposition's silence. The new Banking Act has been introduced by the Christian Democrats because we want to prevent once and for all harmful recruitment into the supervisory worlds of banks that have in the past caused bank holes that we have to patch up with high taxes for all citizens. That is why we have high taxes in Slovenia. The main objective pursued by the bill is to ensure the stability of the banking system in the long term, which is a condition for the sound functioning of the financial and economic system of the country. In addition, we are pursuing the objective of preventing further abuses in the supervision of banks that have led to billions of euros ending in an unknown place. The current Banking Act already contains provisions defining the eligibility of the candidate as a member of the Bank’s Supervisory Board. However, experience shows that these provisions are overly defined and allow entry into the Supervisory Board also to completely inappropriate persons. We want to keep this from happening forever. In order to achieve this goal, the most urgent privatisation of Slovenian banks is. In addition, in New Slovenia we propose a new indicator to determine the eligibility of the candidate for a member of the Bank's Supervisory Board. The proposed additional eligibility indicator shows the proportion of non-performing claims in the bank where the person worked, i.e. he was employed, in the most important places. Members of the Bank’s Supervisory Board shall by no means be persons who, in the past, have shown a sub-average activity in the granting of poor loans. In doing so, we propose to compare both the average of the Slovenian banking system and the average of the European monetary union system. The indicator shall apply to claims incurred during the period of operation of a person in significant positions in banks but within a time frame of at least two and a maximum of ten years of its operation. The ten-year period is justified by the argument of observation of the cycle of the economy and thus of the banking system and the assessment of the stability of its business according to the proposed criterion. We are surprised, colleagues and colleagues, that the identical solution in copy-pasta form in the 18-day legislative procedure for New Slovenia has also been tabled by the Government within the law on bank resolution and forcible termination. It is even more surprising that the Government does not support the solution of New Slovenia. Following the introduction of the amendment law, the government coalition has also immediately removed our solution from its law and prevented the general debate at the parliamentary plenary session, which I have already talked about. Obviously, the government coalition on the stability issues of the Slovenian banking system does not seem worthy to hold a general debate in the first reading of the proposal of our law, namely the amendment of the Banking Act, despite the fact that 10 Members of the general debate clearly requested a debate. The coalition has become engrossed in parliamentary business rights and has therefore thrown the general debate request into the trash bin. As a result of this move by the government coalition, we have not received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in due time on our proposal for a law that was brought to us at the meeting of the home working body at the time of the proposal. Article 48 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides clearly that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service should be given at least 14 days before the meeting. This would also happen if the coalition complied with our demand for a general debate. It is quite clear that the government coalition, in dealing with this amendment of the Banking Act, has completely overstepped the principles of democratic legislative procedure and has thus silenced opposition New Slovenia, which is clearly too loud for some to deal with banking measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u5	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee shall hold its 25th session. 6. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the context of the same agenda item as the working body, the draft Law on Amendments and Complements of the Banking Act, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Joseph Horvat, and the Proposal for a Law on Resolution and Forced Cessation of Banks, submitted by the Government following an urgent procedure to the National Assembly for consideration. The Committee took note of the opinions of the Government, the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service on both proposals for legislation. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the Proposal for a Law on the Resolution and Forced Cessation of Banks have been submitted by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to a number of articles, the SDS Group to the fifth article of the bill and to one article by the SD Group. In accordance with Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee first decided to consider both proposals for legislation under the same agenda item under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the urgent procedure for the adoption of the law. In the introductory supplementary explanation, Mr Horvat first presented the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act and then the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the main solutions to the draft law on bank resolution and forcible termination. In accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee first decided to draw up a supplementary bill on the basis of a law submitted by the Government for consideration, i.e. on the basis of a proposal for a law on bank resolution and forcible termination. The Committee held a debate and also decided whether to include any of the articles of the Banking Act in a government proposal for a law on the basis of which a proposal for a law would be prepared. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance also presented the Government's opinion on the Banking Act. It explained that the proposed solution to this proposal was incorporated by the Government into the proposal for a law on bank resolution and forcible termination, but subsequently, after consultation with the European Central Bank and the Bank of Slovenia, it adopted a negative position on that solution and therefore does not support these changes. They presented their opinions to the Legislative and Legal Service and to the representative of the Council of State. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented both written opinions of the Service on the proposals for laws. Regarding the Banking Act, it was said that the service made specific comments on the proposed new second and third paragraphs of Article 53 of the Banking Act and pointed out that the proposal for a law did not have a transitional regime. With regard to the proposal for a resolution and forcible termination of banks, it was explained that the comments of the service were taken into account in the amendments tabled and further clarifications were received from the Ministry of Finance in respect of some comments. The representative of the Council of State briefly presented both written opinions from the Commission, which supports the proposals of both laws. The members of the Committee discussed in particular Article 268 of the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act or the need for prior licensing of candidates for members of the Bank's Supervisory Board. Some felt that such an approach was essential to the rights of the owners of banks, which could be problematic for foreign owners in particular. The fundamental right of the owner is to determine for himself who he will appoint as a member of the Supervisory Board. On the other hand, some members disagreed and supported licensing. Representatives of Banka Slovenije also participated in the discussion, which said that Banka Slovenije has been working since 2004 to ensure that the licensing of members of the Supervisory Board would be the same as licensing of members of administrations, and in this regard they consider that it is not an intervention in the rights of the owner. Following the discussion, the Committee decided not to include any of the articles in the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act in the draft law. The Committee continued its second reading of the proposal for a law on bank resolution and forcible termination in the text tabled below. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered and adopted amendments by the coalition groups to the individual article of the draft law. The Committee did not adopt the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. It thus became irrelevant to the amendment of Article 268. of the draft law by the Group of Social Democrats. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. Finally, the Committee concluded the legislative procedure for the Banking Act and, pursuant to Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted a finding that it was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Your Honor! We have before us a bill that we will unanimously support in the Desus Group. The law under consideration is definitively transposed into the national legal order by the Directive establishing a framework for the rehabilitation and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. Slovenia is the last one that has not yet transposed this Directive. The deadline for its entry into force has expired a long time ago, so the law must be adopted as soon as possible. In addition to the recently adopted new law governing banking and the law governing the deposit guarantee system, the law concludes the transfer of rules and procedures for the establishment and effective functioning of the banking union. The resolution powers shall be conferred on Banka Slovenije as a single bank resolution authority, the conditions for bank resolution and the resolution principles taken into account by Banka Slovenije in the application of resolution measures. With regard to the question of prior licensing of candidates for members of the Bank's Supervisory Board, on which so many speeches have been addressed, in the Desus Group, we believe that such an approach is essential to the rights of the bank's owners, which may be problematic for foreign owners in particular. We are confident that it is a matter for the owner to determine who he will appoint as members of the Supervisory Board. Unfortunately, almost everything in Slovenia revolves around the largest bank and, of course, we have at least a billion and a half reasons for it, but because of the complications in the case of the appointment of NLB supervisors, we must not limit the other owners of banks. In the Desus Group, we will support the law, so that all directives, which constitute a legal framework for the establishment of a banking union, will be definitively transposed into our legal order. This represents a guarantee for the security and security of the banking sector and the resolution of banks in difficulty without having to use taxpayers' money and with as little consequences for the real economy as possible. The destabilisation of banks and their resulting resolution with public money, as we ourselves know, can create situations in which the functioning of the social state is quite impossible. There can be no doubt that we do not want this in the Desus Group in the future, so we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u9	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a law on the resolution and forcible termination of banks belongs to the so-called group of laws governing the banking union. In particular, it is a law setting out the conditions and procedures for the resolution of banks, their insolvency proceedings and bankruptcys. After the global economic and financial crisis, the consequences of this crisis were seen both in Europe and in Slovenia and we were faced with the collapse of banks and also the rehabilitation of banks with public funds. All of this has happened because banks have an important impact on the whole economy and also on people's lives. That is why countries everywhere guarantee the role of bank savers as they cannot be left to bankruptcy proceedings without triggering an uncontrolled domino reaction, which would also pose major economic problems and consequently the situation of each individual. Therefore, in this situation, each country has sought its solutions, which have also been coordinated at the European level. These reconciliations have resulted in a banking union aimed at fully regulating the scope, operation and termination of banks throughout the Union. The key purpose of harmonising legislation is to prevent banks from renegotiating with tax money alone, or this should be the last and final exit. The objective is to ensure that banks continue to provide sufficient capital in the light of the difficult procedures they have within the lending framework and thus take on high risks. The bill, as one of its most important solutions, thus brings the order of payment of creditors to banks. The first is covered by shareholders, then by holders of capital instruments and then by all other creditors. A similar measure was also introduced in Slovenia in the rehabilitation of our banks, but this measure was still in progress in Slovenia at a time when this law was not adopted. In combination with other banking legislation harmonised within the European Union, the adoption of law means a comprehensive regulation of the area of insolvency proceedings for banks and also a clear definition of the rules governing the resolution of banks in difficulty. We adopted the law by hybrid procedure on the parental committee, since the law significantly interferes with the content of the Law in banking. Therefore, the procedure was carried out together with a proposal for a amendment to the Banking Act submitted by the New Slovenia Embassy Group, which was intended to regulate the verification of the comparability of candidates for bank supervisors. The current Banking Act requires prior verification only for members of the bank administration, but not for members of their supervisory boards. We believe that the adoption of this law is therefore an opportunity to regulate the area of control, and that is why we have tabled an amendment proposing a prior agreement between the Bank of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia for all candidates for the supervisory boards of banks. However, it is the same procedure as it already applies to members of bank administrations. We believe that banks are actually too systemicly important and the state still guarantees the correctness of their operation, so it seems appropriate that there is a previous sieve to verify the eligibility of the candidate for this responsible work. Bank supervisors have this crucial role, and in view of the developments of recent years, we are convinced by the Social Democrats that we still need to tighten the criteria in this area. 5.2 billion euro of public funds invested in the banking system is sufficient, in our view, and even too much reason for this to be done more precisely. We'll support the law ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. If we leave the technical procedure behind, this law formally transfers the decision-making power of banking institutions from Member States to quasindependent institutions such as the European Central Bank and the Single Bank for Bank Resolution. The transfer is a pure formality because in practice decisions on the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks have already been taken abroad. Our political class, namely the Bank of Slovenia, the Government and the majority of Parliament, is simply implementing decisions. The decisions made by Slovenia by the European Central Bank and the European Commission did not reflect the reality and have greatly increased Slovenia's public debt. Former Minister Križanič said well that Slovenia, when he was a finance minister, was in an artificial macroeconomic shock. His colleague, Mramor, is now transferring decisions on the forced cessation of banks into the hands of those who caused this artificial shock. European institutions are controlled by neoliberal doctors. Until recently, the European Commission had argued that nothing unusual had happened in the Slovenian economy prior to the global capitalist crisis, even though we had a high public deficit in exchange with foreign and around 30% of credit growth. This year, when the annual surplus on the balance of payments exceeded 7.7% of GDP, when we have some deflation and high unemployment, the Commission notes that our economy is overheating. In this way it is not possible to run normal fiscal policies and this was finally very well demonstrated by Professor Veljko Bole in recent economic movements. By this law and directives, decisions on bank rehabilitation are formally passed on to institutions that forced the Slovenian government in 2013 to recapitalise banks on the basis of stress tests, the results of which differed by around €1.5 billion. The difference between the basic test and the test to calibrate the basic test was about 45 %. The required capital has been calculated on the basis of forecasts that have deviated extremely from the actual situation in our economy. We have already recorded economic growth in the last quarter of 2013, and it has been clear to every observer that the crisis in the real sector is ending, except for those who have prepared these tests. It followed an asset review at liquidation value, although none of the major banks were insolvent. This was the basis for the most radical decommissioning of NKBM investors. The Austrian Constitutional Court has condemned similar action against them as unconstitutional and, as usual, ours has been waiting for a higher European instance for two years. For the reward of investing 3.5 billion euros in public money in banks where the country did not actually have more than a majority share, the government has pledged that these banks will virtually stop lending the economy and will sell them at discount prices. NKBM, which has 26% capital adequacy – around 10% required – which has invested more than one billion public money during the crisis and has a business in every major place through the Slovenian Postal Bank, has now purchased the Apollo Fund for less than 250 million euros. That's less than book value. This is 750 million less than it has been invested in, and very likely even less than the compensation that will have to be paid to investors. We certainly will not support the transfer of powers to institutions which are responsible for all this damage. In some countries, governments have resisted such instructions. In Italy and in Portugal, nationalised banks, for example, refused to sell to the same Apollo fund that bought our NKBM. Our government obviously can't do that. Rather than resisting the European Commission and the speculative fund, it demonstrated its state-of-the-art effectiveness by ratifying the accession of Montenegro to the NATO Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia copied the solution of Christian Democrats to rationalise the composition of the supervisory boards of banks. It has thus prevented the general debate requested on our proposal for the amendment to the Banking Act and has immediately removed our solution from its law. In this move, Christian Democrats do not see a shred of common sense. In this way, however, we see a way of preventing the procedure and discussing the law that would prevent inappropriate human resources moves in banks. The very inappropriate persons in responsible positions could again represent a continuation of the millions of euros drawn from banks and, consequently, a threat to the stability of the system. If we consider the practice of the operation of banks in the last period and the current legal criteria for appointment to supervisory councils of banks, we can see that action is urgently needed in this area. These measures should not only be beauty repairs, but should in fact also be effective. We have to cut the bank's Gordy knot once and for all. Therefore, banks should be privatised. In doing so, the new Slovenia also proposes the introduction of a new non-performing claim index which would show who is unfit to assume responsibility as a member of the supervisory board of the bank. In our view and in our proposal for a law, it is inappropriate for those who, in the past, have caused an excessively high share of poor claims. Obviously, the government coalition wants to keep these people in important positions in banks by blocking our bill, which is frightening and worrying for us. On the part of the Bank of Slovenia, an important segment of our solution was misunderstood in the consideration of the proposal. The thoughts of Banka Slovenije that someone could have been given an impression of the bad work of others in the past are not justified. In this place, let me explain that, according to our proposal, non-performing claims are taken into account for those claims which have been granted during the study period and not for those which have just proved to be non-performing during this period. Therefore, it is not possible for anyone to be given evidence of the poor work of responsible persons who have performed their functions in the past. Banka Slovenije, in its position on the proposal for a law, says that it opposes our novelty because some banks are supposed to consciously choose a risky way of doing business. This is also a worrying opinion of the Bank of Slovenia. In fact, Banka Slovenija supports the implementation of the so-called 'banking casino', which is responsible for disrupting the stability of the banking system and for creating the bad claims that all taxpayers had to pay. It was just in the last week that we witnessed discussions on the so-called soft criteria for lending. Is that what we want in the future? Do we want to re-bank collapses and bank holes with taxpayer money? With the amendment of the Banking Act, we Christian Democrats are working to ensure that this will never happen again in Slovenia. However, as regards the proposal for a law on bank resolution and forcible bank termination, this law brings some meaningful alignment with European legislation, so we will not oppose this bill in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u15	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u16	Dear colleagues, President, Secretary of State! The financial crisis, which has already affected Europe in 2007 and most of it in 2008, has also affected Slovenia's financial system. We kept our eyes closed for too long and delayed our actions. In 2013 and 2014, Slovenia unfortunately managed the banking system for the second time with tax money. The fact is, the rehabilitation of the bank was expensive, too expensive. It is also a fact that, without action, the State would go bankrupt. What does that mean for people, we can look at them in Greece. They still pay the price today, and people pay the better price. Therefore, I am proud that in 2013 and 2014 we successfully and without foreign assistance put Slovenia back on track, although today someone else receives congratulations and awards for our work. Whatever. The rehabilitation of banks, which we carried out to a greater extent in 2013 and 2014, has not yet been completed. It is said that the rehabilitation of banks was not yet completed when Mira Cerar and SMC took over the exercise. Many bad loans are still in Slovenian banks. The participation of Banka Slovenije, Ministry of Finance and so-called bad banks in restructuring our economy would still be urgently needed. Everything else is happening. You are engaged in exchanges of supervisory boards that are not according to your age, even if the business of companies or banks is good. You are engaged in exchanges of administrations in companies, even though this is not in your jurisdiction at all. You're acting on your own instead of dealing with the real problems you have on the table. And this inefficiency will be paid again by people, unfortunately. We have before us a law on bank resolution and forcible termination. A law that actually confirms measures that have already been implemented and applied in some way. It also introduces these measures for the future. In our parliamentary group, we will not oppose the law because we are aware of where failure to act in the past has led us. However, we wish that these measures, which are mentioned in this law, should never again be applied or that taxpayers would never again be able to recover Slovenian banks with their money. Still, I have some criticism to make. The law before us today has 268 articles, and we accept it according to the wish of the coalition and the decision of the President of the National Assembly, or on a proposal from the College, by emergency procedure, which is really inappropriate for such an important law. And the reason for this is that the government is late in preparing this law. With the adoption of the law, we are 17 months late, and this is the efficiency that the President of the Government taught us about here yesterday. In addition, a number of amendments have been adopted on the Committee – I think that more than half of the articles have been amended – and we find it inappropriate, especially because SMC Members can always be critical of the opposition proposals of the laws. Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, you need to be placed at your doorstep, and then you can be critical of others. As I have already said, because in our Group of Members we are aware of where failure to act in the area of the rehabilitation of banks in the past has led us, we will not oppose this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u17	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which the mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, very nice greeting! With the proposed Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act, Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and, important, investment firms, and amending the Sixth Council Directive and the eight directives and two regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules on bank resolution are definitively transposed into the national legal order. The powers of the bank resolution authority shall be conferred on the Bank of Slovenia, with the exception of the tasks and powers for which a single resolution committee is responsible under the Regulation. For the purposes of the implementation of the resolution function, the Bank of Slovenia shall establish an appropriate internal organisation to ensure operational independence and to prevent conflicts of interest in the exercise of resolution tasks and powers on the one hand and in the exercise of tasks and powers relating to the prudential supervision of banks on the other. Operational independence shall be ensured where separate reporting and proposals are provided for decisions taken by the Bank of Slovenia as the resolution authority and decisions taken by the Bank of Slovenia as the body responsible for bank supervision. The following three conditions must be met cumulatively: firstly, the bank is failing or is likely to fail; secondly, there are no circumstances under which the reasons for the failure of the bank within the appropriate time frame are likely to be eliminated, in particular by taking into account alternative measures of the private sector, control measures, including early intervention in accordance with the law governing banking, or by write-off or conversion of capital instruments; thirdly, resolution measures are necessary to protect the public interest. Several resolution instruments have been set up, such as: sale of business, establishment of a bridge bank, separation of funds, write-off and conversion of qualified liabilities available to the Bank of Slovenia if the situation in the bank deteriorates so that its recovery is not feasible within the appropriate time frame. The resolution method depends on the individual banks and rescue plans that have been prepared for them. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we support solutions that will finally introduce the Banking Union. It is crucial for our parliamentary group that the proposal for a law implements as much as possible a reduction in the expenditure of the state budget, as it stipulates that bank resolution funds for the bank resolution fund will be used. In this way, the proposal will contribute to the savings of state budget resources, as the necessary contribution of the owner will be reduced if the bank resolution fund is activated. However, it should be stressed that the banking system in Slovenia is strong. This law only lays down mechanisms for bank resolution, with which banks will be dealt with quickly in the future if they need it. Of course, we do not expect these needs for the future, because the banks are highly recapitalised, which the country is involved in. As it is said, the SMC Group supports the draft law before us and wants to see the content of the law on bank resolution and forcible termination applied as few times as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u19	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on the resolution and forcible cessation of banks, which concerns the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Slovenian legal order. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the directive makes sense, since it in particular reduces the risk of bank failure by taxpayers. However, we have certain concerns, particularly with regard to the management of state property and how the Government of Mir Cerar manages it. The fact is that the New Ljubljana Bank, our largest system bank, which is 100% state-owned, still does not have a complete supervisory board, does not have full leadership and does not rule out the possibility that, given the poor governance and poor governance of the government, taxpayers will have to rehabilitate this banking system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Group of Members, we look with regret at the procedures in which the matter took place on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We are convinced that there has been a breach of the rules of procedure, both by the President of the National Assembly and by the coalition, because in some way you have prevented the debate on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in the light of a bill tabled by one of the opposition parliamentary groups. With regard to the very content of the resolution of this law, we could say that we have concerns in the SDS Group about why this law also includes a resolution or chapter on licensing for members of the Supervisory Board. We are convinced that these provisions would be more meaningful in the Bank of Slovenia Act itself or in the Bank of Slovenia Act. The fact is that we have bad legislation in Slovenia and that with such mechanisms and enlargements, when it is necessary to refer to each other's laws, I think we are reintroducing into the Slovenian legislative space a number of provisions which will make it difficult for participants and stakeholders in this system and for the exercise of control alone, this also means for regulators. Here we would reiterate the criticism at the expense of the drafting of the law, because it has now become a practice that all legislation coming from the Ministry of Finance is extremely poorly prepared. The fact is, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has a lot of problems in this regard. The fact is that approximately half of the proposed articles needed to be corrected, and as a result, Members have great difficulties breaking through such a law. We have also tabled an amendment to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which will be discussed at today's meeting. We are convinced that fines and fines should be corrected, because we are convinced that they are disproportionate compared to other laws and with provisions relating to offences and fines, so we propose to increase them. The fact is, the government was late for this directive. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the proposal itself to introduce a directive into the law will not be opposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 215 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD. The panellist, Mr Jožef Horvat, spoke first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have closely followed the views of the Group of Members. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, allow me to express my gratitude to all those who have experienced a non-democratic procedure when adopting or, rather, rejecting our amendment to the Banking Act. Until now, we have not really received an answer as to why the ten Members' request for a general debate has not been taken into account. No one has explained this to us today, but it is simply this request of the 10 Members, who have been put here by the people of this country, who have not been respected or thrown into a basket or ignored. Our only tool, i.e. the Member and Members, is the debate, there are words, there is an argumented debate. We are extremely concerned about what is happening today and what will happen in the future in our banking system. Not only in state banks, where we are recording some specialty, a world speciality, because the state of Slovenia has a majority influence in certain banks. We have in mind, of course, the European Commission's document, this is the European Commission's permission to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank. I've talked about this document many times. It has a number SA3329, 18 December 2013, when the European Commission granted State aid to the New Ljubljana Bank amounting to EUR 1.55 billion, but immediately put in a catalogue of commitments to be implemented by the state of Slovenia. Among these commitments is the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, at the latest by the end of 2017. The Supervisory Board of the Ljubljana Bank will therefore be the one with the key responsibility for this privatisation process. Now I will not lose words about what happened at the last – diplomatically speaking – the unfortunate recruitment into the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank. If we had implemented our solution, which we are proposing in the new Banking Act, this probably would not have happened. Why not? Since, in addition to all the requirements already laid down in the Banking Act, the requirements to be met by the members of the supervisory boards of banks would be examined if the candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board had already been employed in a bank and looked at the proportion of the non-performing claims of that bank during the period when that candidate was employed in that bank. This means that those who are said to be more comprehensible who were employed in a bank at the time of the bank’s creation will never again be members of the supervisory board of any bank. It's very simple. Of course, we didn't invent the solutions. This solution is based on the so-called promise theory, for which even the Nobel Prize was awarded. The proposed law, our law, the amendment of the Banking Act, therefore follows the objective of improving the arrangements for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board in banking institutions. As we say, this solution is based on the so-called promise theory developed by Daniel Kahneman and won the Nobel Prize for Economics. I am surprised that some in the National Assembly do not like this solution, which has thus received the Nobel Prize. Allow us to explain why our Banking Act was treated as a hybrid, that is, along with the Government's Proposal for a Bank Rescue and Forced Cessation Act. At the time, the Coalition claimed that it was a matter of resolving the same social relations. Under the rules of procedure, of course, two laws can be dealt with in a hybrid manner, i.e. together at the same point, and taken from each law the best solution. This, of course, would be democratically very correct. In its proposal, more precisely in Article 268, the government put in place our solution based on the principle of copy-paste, but then our disappointment followed. Why? Because the same government coalition has tabled an amendment to this solution on the home labour body. As long as this solution was still integrated into the government's bill, I'd say okay, okay, let's say it's a hybrid. But when we got the amendment of the coalition on the table, and our solution to the government bill was deleted, then we saw that it was actually a trick. Ladies and gentlemen, if we're going to go out here for a bit of speed or a little prestige with tricks, then our country doesn't write well. I apologize for perhaps harsh rhetoric, but that is why this procedure, this undemocratic, scandalous procedure, is understood to be the silence of opposition New Slovenia, which in the last two months has submitted nine draft laws to the parliamentary procedure, which we believe contain good solutions for this country. We could enjoy the ease of the opposition, but we're not that kind of party. We work, we invest, and we'll make laws. Even if you hit us again. It's not right, ladies and gentlemen. I believe the government has put great effort into the law on bank resolution and forcible termination. It's an extremely difficult subject. Even though I can't give a 17-month delay leave here. Some countries have even surpassed European directives in their legislation. I can count them. I believe that the Ministry of Finance has put a lot of effort into this, but the question of why we should just suddenly silence opposition New Slovenia is not answered. Someone on the Finance Committee said we were blocking. Please, I'll tell you the dates now. We filed a law on 21 April, a day later, on 22 April, we submitted a request for a general debate. The government came with its law only 18 days later, on the day of Europe, 9 May. Who's blocking who now? As crucial a question as the recruitment of competent, most competent people into the supervisory worlds of banks, on such a key issue, we are going to do some tricks here to simply eliminate someone. It's just not acceptable for us. On the basis of the relevant data from Banka Slovenije in December 2015, which shows that there are still several billion poor non-profit claims in our banking system, almost 6, we are afraid that it will hit taxpayers again. So I repeat what I said about the pay phone that we have such a burden on our work, so we have, to put it simply, high taxes. Because we actually have to pay bank crime with these taxes. Here, the parliamentary commission of inquiry, in which I am also a member, is making every effort, but because you are monitoring yourself and the public are also monitoring these hearings, when some of the most responsible people in banks where bank holes have arisen, even deliberately, on purpose, simply some of their years, do not remember their decisions. They do not recall the functions of their family members and housing loans received by their family members at extremely favourable rates. If we do not successfully resolve the issue of recruitment to the supervisory councils of banks, then, ladies and gentlemen, what I have heard in some of the positions of the parliamentary groups is free of charge, to expect, hope and not know what else. In politics, there are no expressions of hope, but there are requirements. We are the legislative branch of power, and we must demand, more to say, that the matter be resolved as it is in the spirit of law. I have no hope at all, I have no guarantee, I have no guarantee that, from this moment forward, when the government law on bank resolution and forcible termination will be enforced, banks will operate exclusively in accordance with business ethics, business law and so on, because in their opinion on our amendment to the Banking Act, the government has in some way indicated that in any case casino banking is also allowed. As far as I am concerned and as far as New Slovenia is concerned, no place is allowed and no casino banking should be allowed. The government did not use that expression in its opinion, but the opinion that bad long-term claims can also be good, somehow in this sense, we simply do not buy them. Thank you very much for now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u23	Does anyone else want to discuss Article 215 or general as usual? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Indeed, it was my intention to touch on Article 215. However, words by the proposer, and also by some who have presented their position, simply make me reply with a few words, because I believe that the proposaler, at least with the latter, is very much misleading both the Members and the public. What has particularly woke me up or caused me to comment in this case is his statement that we have to ask Members. It is true, but it forgets or does not say that the requirement must be based on a legal and professional basis, not just on a politically-friendly word. Why am I saying this? I am touching on their proposal, which was also said on his part that it was undemocratic and I do not know what else to say about it, and I will not repeat it because I do not want to go to this level, but I am only asking. What, then, is the democratic form of decision-making in the National Assembly or in the national working bodies? All the parent labour bodies and the National Assembly do not make democratic decisions. The fact is that decision-making is based on the cities we have in our parliamentary groups. I don't know what it's undemocratic about. But I'd like to touch the content, because I think it's more important. The fact is that so far most of the content of today's agenda is not generally touched and touched by what the proposaler points out again. I must say here firmly why we rejected the SMC in the home labour force, which is clear that it was rude and undemocratic. The SMC Group had two very clear decisions ahead of it, and we have followed them as responsible Members. The first was the expert opinion of the Bank of Slovenia on the proposal of the proposer. The Bank of Slovenia has made it very clear that in the solution proposed by the proposer, there are a number of professional concerns. I think that this kind of professional concerns will most likely also be addressed by a representative of the Ministry of Finance, because I think we are obliged to report to the public that this is not something. In such specific cases, when we touch a 5 billion-dollar bank hole and what is heard very few times in the National Assembly, that there may be another such amount in the air, I think we are all very aware of that. It is true, however, that the moment of sobriety, when it is necessary to resolve everything through various receipts, is not resolved by the fact that there is now much talk about how licensing by members of supervisory boards in state-owned banks will miraculously solve the corporate management of these banks. To go back. What I would point out about Banka Slovenije is, in particular, their very clearly stated claim that in the initiative or proposal that is well-intentioned – here we do not see any weakness of this, only the fact is that the professional institution Banka Slovenije National Assembly as a legislative body clearly points out that certain matters are not harmonised as a condition that their initiative or proposal can be integrated into our system. I will not go into the content itself, but if necessary, we will also touch it further. This was the first fundamental element, according to Banka Slovenije's expert judgement. Secondly, for which I must acknowledge that I am very grateful to the in-depth review and examination of such a case by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, where they have made a real effort, given the complexity of this matter, to the content of the proposalr – where it was then evident that the Government has annulled its own article – but their opinion and position, which has been very clearly recorded and none has touched on it so far. I think it's imperative that we start talking about these salaries as well. What is the position of the Legal and Legal Service? The impossibility of not talking about the fact that this law, which deals with changes and bank terminations, cannot place a decided provision that is solely linked to another. I think that politicians, Members of this National Assembly with a long, ten-year practice, know this very well. Perhaps I, who I am more or less with this very short practice, could sometimes make excuses for this, but that is a fact and beyond that fact we cannot. I expect that there will be another debate on 268. To the members that we will be objective and will make clear why such a decision has taken place on the working body. And don't manipulate words like "more or less undemocratic". I repeat. The SMC Group has consistently followed the position of Banka Slovenije, which has clearly been transmitted through the Ministry of State or Government, as well as the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services. Now I want to touch the content itself, what I think we have to deal with today. By 215. Article 215 of the Bank Rescue and Forced Cessation Act, the SMC Group, together with the coalition, tabled this amendment for a simple reason, because this amendment wanted to shorten the deadline for Banka Slovenije to become enforceable as a rule before the original text. As regards Banka Slovenije as the decision-making body, in this case, in accordance with the authorisation of the bill itself, we firmly believe that such procedures should be carried out or carried out professionally, quickly, effectively and effectively, which is important to achieve the purposes. What has been said in the presentations and also by the proposer, it is clear that most things have been kept in the past and I will not say what anomalies have been going on. I also cannot agree with this, as the representative of the Group of Non-Aligned Members has said, that we saved the Republic of Slovenia in 2013. I strongly doubt whether the three-way solution to Slovenia's financial action was a miracle, given that we have a virtual annual billion and so much interest on this account alone. Circumstances are slowly coming from all sides. On this occasion, I would like to thank both Mr Horvat and the President of the Parliamentary Banking Investigation Commission for working so intensively on this. I also wish that this intensity is indeed continuing and that we are finally getting some objective results, and I hope that policy will also accept it. However, I will allow myself, as usual, a few words about the law itself, because we are always returning to the New Ljubljana Bank, poor claims and the like. These are processes and procedures that must comply with existing legislation, including staffing and the like, where I can also say my own personal opinion that a typical example of the recruitment of members of the Supervisory Board in the New Ljubljana Bank is once again a case of poor banking practice. That's just my humble opinion. I just wish these things didn't happen again. As far as the bill before us is concerned, I think we are under-emphasizing something. The transposition of this Directive, marked 59 in 2014, which can be said practically by its content to be a procedural or technical law, but the essence of this law, with its abundance of articles, 269 – by the way, was not submitted to the Home Working Committee by a multitude of amendments, was just over 30, and the majority of these amendments were nomotechnic. We know the practice is that the Legislative and Legal Service warns of certain shortcomings and it is also right to take these matters into account. If I return, this Directive very clearly requires Member States to put in place, in their legal order, a credible set of instruments, in order to intervene early enough and quickly in banks which in some way are found not to be mature for their mission for which they are established. For we are not aware of too many times, whether the owner is a state or a natural or other legal person, that the bank is set up to create profit. It's over. There's no other debate. Then we can also look at what the Act on Economic Companies means in relation to the status form of a company. The fact is that the requirement for transposition of this Directive has three key elements, which are also very detailed in this law in some respects. It is said that this preparation and prevention of these types, such as the bad situation of banks, early intervention when the bank is in difficulty or does not meet the capital requirements, where we know that in 2013 banks owned this constant, most likely before, and thirdly, resolution if the existence of a bank is at risk. What has not yet been said in the presentations, however, I think it is right that it is mentioned that the substance of the transposition of this Directive into our legal order through this law, that the loss is first taken over by shareholders, however this may sound, is a directive that binds all Member States. They are followed by creditors, where it is particularly important to point out that no creditor should suffer a greater loss than it would have been if the proceedings against the bank concerned were carried out under the insolvency law. What should be mentioned in particular in this context is the fact that the objective that follows this Directive is, in particular, the failure of banks, the failure of banks, the failure of banks in the way and without the use of public funds. I think this is a very important message from this law. At the same time, all these procedures run in a way that does not adversely affect other institutions which are in any way involved in the process of the bank concerned. What is to be welcomed with regard to this Directive is in particular the fact that this Directive leaves to national legislation, in this case also to the country of Slovenia, that the countries themselves decide on the use of instruments and national funding schemes in support of the resolution process. Just two more words. The fact is that we have touched on the Banking Act 2 that we have adopted in the past year, and it is interesting that since the abundance of these articles has recently been a stumbling block only the article that speaks or refers to members of the Supervisory Board. The fact is that the Banking Act 2 has already put in place the first two elements, which I mentioned earlier, in relation to prevention and detection of the third element, the key element, for the transposition of this Directive and the resolution itself is not in this law, so it is simply necessary to have this very detailed provision in the bill. In this context, however, it should also be mentioned that before the adoption of the Banking Act 2 we have already adopted the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund. We forget that. The fact is that the Bank of Slovenia has already established a bank resolution fund under this law. This bank resolution fund, as is known, is obliged to pay up to 1% of all banks and savings banks established in the Republic of Slovenia. The essence of this fund is that it is its primary duty to draw funds from this fund in the event of a weakness in the business of banks. It is clear that we have also determined by that law that the Fund is established by 2024. However, I would like to point out that this rescue fund through the Bank of Slovenia is a bank resolution fund in the Republic of Slovenia. However, we have also been committed to European regulations to complement the Authority and Bank Resolution Fund Act in November 2015, under which a financing mechanism under the Single Resolution Fund has been established, and here we must separate this single fund, which is at the level of the European Union. This single fund is also financed by funds from banks and savings banks. To conclude, I would nevertheless like to ask the representative of the executive branch of the government, that is, the Ministry of Finance, if, in his presentation or comment, which will certainly be present in the debate, answers on a certain direction where I personally have two dilemmas concerning the same law, which you will most likely touch in the debate. Compared with countries with regard to the transposition of directives, I miss comparing France and Russia or the Russian Federation for a simple reason, because in the Republic of Slovenia we have a strong bank whose owner comes from France. The fact is that it is not mentioned how such a matter is essentially being resolved, because we know that this directive and our legislation have established a system for such a solution to be implemented at home if there is a lack of business. Since it is our duty to be present here that we do not care how the financial sector works tomorrow or in the coming years, I simply want to know how it is with the bank, which is very influential in our area. At the same time, I would like to point out that Russia or the Russian Federation, which we know is Sberbank in Slovenia, which has taken over the Volksbank and also Raiffeisen a long time ago, has about 5% of the market share, as is an important player in our space. For this reason, I would ask if, in some way, you can tell us whether, in this regard, they also have a structured way in those home countries where they are established, so that there are no specific problems. To conclude, however, I have a second question, because in the law itself, it is only in the definition of concepts that banks should also include savings banks. Here I would ask, Madam Secretary of State, if you make it very clear in some respects whether this law on forcible bank termination also applies to savings banks, because in the Republic of Slovenia we have these three savings banks. The fact is that I would not want this to happen in a year, three or five – I would like to see that this does not happen, but also, if it does happen – the savings office repeats this story in 2013, when the government has practically taken over private property into state ownership, as a result, recapitalised at the expense of taxpayers and we now have, I must admit, one interesting thing that takes place in the debates after the working committees – Probank and Factor Bank. Since we said that we are looking ahead and preventively, I really want to know if this law is a very clear solution to the savings banks. Because I don't want a similar story that any government supports private financial institutions and then solves some financial problem through taxpayers. So much for once, as far as the other amendments are concerned, I'm just gonna take a call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u25	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. If any of us, as an individual, were the majority owner of a bank or the majority owner of a company, I would probably think very carefully about who on our behalf would control the finances of our bank or our company. They probably wouldn't have chosen a client colleague just because he's a client partner, not a neighbor or a relative, because he's a relative, but they would have thought about it and chosen someone who has a knowledge that's honest and that in the past he hasn't made any serious mistakes or even worse. I know that in Slovenia we do not have exactly enough of such personnel, and we all have experience of what has happened in the past, when no one is responsible for anything and when we cover holes with tax money. If we were the owners of a bank or a company and we didn't expect the country to correct our mistakes, we would think about who would control the company's finances for us. Our purpose, when we proposed our law, was to produce clear criteria, verifiable criteria, so that we could also appoint members of the supervisory councils under these criteria. That's all we wanted to do. Because we also have people who are experienced in this area who have certain knowledge and because in New Slovenia we are looking for solutions, regardless of whether we are in opposition, we would also have no objection to our solutions being incorporated into government laws or otherwise, but we also need to know about copyright everywhere. But we can't just manipulate things and act surprised and ignorant. We only want clear agreements and, as a constructive opposition, we also want to contribute our solutions to good, better legislation. That was our clear purpose. If you are also referring to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, I would like these opinions to be taken into account in all laws. On Thursday we will talk about financing education, where you completely overstepped the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and do not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. In some cases, therefore, this opinion is extremely important, and in some cases you literally overlook it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u27	The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! In a short discussion, I will also define myself on the proposal for criteria for the appointment of supervisory boards of banks. According to the United Left assessment, we have two problems in Slovenia in particular in the composition of supervisory boards of banks. Firstly, we have the systemic legal exclusion of representatives of employees from these supervisory boards, it is said that the representatives of employees must not be in. Second, corporate governance of state banks. We are the victim of a fraud called corporate governance. According to the principles of corporate governance, state interest in Luka Koper can best be represented by Mr Jürgen Sorgenfrei. This is the former marketing director at the port of Hamburg, a competitive port. It is known as the author of a study that says, for example, that the second track is not worth it and that we should drive along the highway. This is the intentional sabotage of the second track carried out systematically by Minister Gasperšič and the Government in the interest of private investors. These investors expect state subsidies, the public private partnership is again in the private interest. If we do not agree to subsidisation, the second track will not be built, which is in the interest of neighbouring countries, particularly Austria and Italy, which have been building a railway bypass around Slovenia for several years. If you ask the OECD and SDH, Sorgenfrey is an ideal supervisor. There is no way that the State's public interest would be represented instead by, say, a civil servant who would appoint him or call off the democratic authority. This is another scam called the withdrawal of politics from the economy. Staffing is based on dogma or on a show that everyone appointed by democratic institutions works in the interest of political interest and lobbying. However, citizens are expected to accept this as a normal situation, rather than demanding that officials and politicians not work in the interest of their castes, but in the interests of citizens. The second point I would like to make briefly is the evaluation of the work of the members of the Supervisory Boards. Although the representative of the proposer has already answered this in part in her position, I would like to ask the proposer to give a little more details on the way in which the following matter is dealt with. It is not clear how the law takes into account the gap between the period when a loan was granted and the period when that loan became a bad claim. To illustrate. The largest loans to the church holding company Zvon, Bavčarjev Istrabenz, Vegrad and others were granted between 2005 and 2008. However, only after the 2010 crisis did the poor claims occur, it is said that these loans, which were granted between 2005 and 2008, only became poor after the crisis. So let's say, if this is not well defined, Mr Kramar and Kovacič, Head of NLB and NKBM administrations, at a time when these loans were being granted, then by criteria they received a better estimate than those who had to repair the damage that had occurred since 2009, due to the credits they had granted. If I give a parallel, it is about as if it were said that the de facto bankruptcy of the Moroccan archdiocese is the responsibility of the present Archbishop of Cwickl, who is only the remedying of the consequences, not the archbishop of Kramberger, who led it during the greatest financial machinations. Here I would like to ask the proposer for a slightly more detailed explanation or an illustration of the evaluation of the supervisor's work in relation to the period when these loans were granted or when they became poor, as it usually takes a couple of years to delay and it is not clear from the law how this will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u29	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellows and fellows, a nice welcome to you on my behalf! In the Desus Group, we will, of course, support the proposal for a regulation that we are now discussing or discussing. What's this all about? This is a major solution arising from the transposition of the Directive of the European Union and the alignment of the domestic legal order with the European rules on bank resolution. In addition to the recently adopted law governing banking and the law governing the deposit guarantee system, the law kind of rounds up the so-called banking union. Of course, this law should have been adopted some time ago, this directive should have been transposed a while ago, but it is better late than never. To avoid any monetary penalties or penalty in the Desus Group we therefore support this law. What are the main points, the main solutions to this law? It is certain to continue to carry out the so-called critical functions of individual institutions, to prevent more serious negative impacts on financial stability. We certainly do not want to get into a situation where taxpayers are not at the forefront of a dilemma, but before the fact that it is necessary, I am speaking on a conditioner, once again with high amounts of recapitalisation of individual financial institutions and thus to resolve financial stability in the country. Next. The protection of public funds by reducing dependency as much as possible on exceptional, I stress exceptional, public financial assistance. Next. The protection of the investor, which we consider to be one of the key points, the key solutions for guaranteed deposits in banks, and investors, which is also essential, on the basis of guaranteed claims on investment firms and, last but not least, the protection of assets as collaterals and assets of customers. Of course, in the future, we want this law — the transposition of this directive, this regulation — not to become or remain a dead letter on paper. That those major solutions that I have cited and seen and I understand as key to stability and a smaller risk for all of us, for small people and for financial institutions, do not remain a dead letter on paper and that we do not have the history that we are talking about today, but we do have a truly regulated financial system as an exemplary member of the European and monetary union. For everything, I will support the law, hoping it will also be effective and functional. Havela beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u31	Ms Irena Sodin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the outset, I would like to say a few reasons why the Government, in the final version, adopted a negative position on the proposal for amendments to the Banking Act tabled by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Joseph Horvat. In good faith, the government incorporated this article into its law, but then, after consulting the Bank of Slovenia and also in the light of the opinion of the European Central Bank, adopted a negative position. In the view of both Banka Slovenije and after a more detailed examination of the proposal, the performance of the candidate in the banking field should be assessed through several criteria, not only through the perception of the share of bad loans in the bank. The possible over-average value of such an indicator does not yet mean that the bank has failed in its business. A bank with sufficient capital may opt for a more risky business model characterised by an over-average share of bad loans, but its results may nevertheless be above-average compared to other banks in the country and in the European scale. The technical shortcomings of the proposal are also reflected in the definition of a time frame for assessing the performance of banking operations. The consequences of inadequate credit risk management usually occur only a few years from now, and therefore the person who would take the lead or lead function at a time when the consequences of an inadequate past credit risk transaction in the bank would be shown to be unjustifiably aware of the failure of his or her business, although it would not be responsible. On the contrary, the proposed criterion could be met by a person who would exercise a leading or leading function in the bank at a time when the value of the indicator was below average and its contested conduct would only later reflect the increased value of this indicator. The proposed criterion in practice could not even be implemented, since, according to the proposal, a non-performing claim is considered a claim that is not settled with the bank within 90 days of maturity. This part also answers the question of Member Luke Mesca. The definitions of non-performing exposures in the Member States of the European Union are different, meaning that the data for calculating the proposed criterion cannot be compared with each other. Due to the practice applied differently in different countries, last year alone the European Banking Authority identified a uniform definition of non-performing and restructured exposures for the purpose of reporting on a consolidated basis. The bill would also distinguish between the conditions for appointment to the supervisory board of the bank and the conditions for appointment of a member of the bank's administration. Since both functions are equally important in terms of bank risks, this distinction is not justified or justified. As it is said, the Bank of Slovenia objected to the proposal for the above reasons, and the European Central Bank has also been very reticent to the proposal, which considers that the proposal, as set out, does not provide for any discretion. Then I would like to answer two questions from Mr Verbic. I can respond to the adhesion regarding the involvement of savings banks and the rescue of savings facilities in the law itself. The store is a credit institution and under the Banking Act 2 the term applies to all credit institutions, i.e. savings banks. Then answer the question of how the Bank of Slovenia will act in the case of two different entities coming from different geographical areas, in the case of the French bank and in the case of the bank of the Russian Federation. The law applies to entities listed in Article 2 of the Act, i.e. EU branches, and these are branches located in a Member State that are part of third country credit institutions. So this also applies to Sberbank, which operates in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u33	I'll give my word to the motioner first, and then I'll open it again. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Verbic for the compliments he has given to the parliamentary investigative committee investigating the bank hole or the responsible person. From this place I am giving assurance that we will continue to step up our efforts, and we also invite you to cooperate. Mr Verbič, I will insist that this is a truly undemocratic principle when a coalition – you too are a member of this coalition, at least a parliamentary component of the coalition – has actually overstepped the 10 Members' demand for a general debate. So you have prevented this basic tool that we Members have – debate, arguments and so on. In New Slovenia we fully understand the professional comments of the European Central Bank and the Bank of Slovenia, although Banka Slovenije did not comment directly on our law, but the Government somehow summarized it in its opinion. But we trust and do not require the original document of the Bank of Slovenia. But if you say that our solution is unprofessional – somehow in this sense you have discussed, do not hold me to the point – then why are you not fair and say that the Government has also made a non-professional move when this same solution was implemented in Article 268. Then why are we the only ones who are unprofessional? All you have to do is be fair. Why is it obvious that the opposition is engaged here to make the best possible decisions to really place the most competent people in the supervisory sacred banks? Because at home, people stop me and ask me to take away those who took them. After all, the state has not literally taken the money from our wallets and thrown it into a bank hole, but it is known in other sectors, other systems or sub-systems that do not have money or ministerial resources. Why can't a farmer be immobile? Because he doesn't have the right to a care allowance. One hundred and a thousand such matters could be listed, but now this is not the subject of this agenda item. All right, you've decided to undemocraticly stop the request of 10 Members, I insist that this was undemocratic. You too, Mr Verbic, have not given us the answer to the question I have asked as a speaker. Why? Because they say that human resources policy is the queen of all politicians. If we're in bad shape, the marriages can still be so brilliant, and it won't work. I had the privilege of sitting at dinner with the President of Albania — I think — and asking him how they arranged their banking system. He said, "Mah, we privatized our banks a long time ago." Here's the solution. This is where Albania beat us to it. We can take Albania as an example as regards the privatisation of the banking system. I have repeatedly reiterated the statement made by our Governor, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, who says that he will come to the world of governors at the European Central Bank and his colleagues ask him when Slovenia will privatise its banks because we are in a society of countries such as Ethiopia, Syria, Cuba, I do not know which, so in society of 8 countries in the world where the country or policy has a key influence on the banking system. It's our cancer wound, whether you like it or not. I'm not pointing to this coalition now, God forbid this coalition is to blame for this bank hole, no, but this coalition has the greatest political power and power right now, and it manages this country, that is, the state banks. And things need to be done in a way that will benefit people and no one else, of course, for the benefit of all people. In the opinion of the Government on our proposal for the Banking Act, I was somehow struck by the following entry: "The Bank of Slovenia is in relation to the proposed solution," which is New Slovenia's solution, "expressed a number of professional concerns. In her view, the effectiveness of the candidate's activities in the banking field could not be assessed only through the prism of the share of bad loans in the bank." We do not just judge according to the proportions of bad claims, but in Article 53 of the Banking Act, we simply add to the stricter criteria, and everything that was before remains. Next: "A bank with sufficient capital can consciously choose a more risky business model, which is characterised by an over-average share of poor loans, but can nevertheless be over-average with other performance indicators compared to other banks in the country or in the banking union. All of this is true, but I simply do not believe that in Slovenia as well. That's what I call "the casino banking," which I don't support. If colleague Verbič, who knows the banking system and deepens himself in these matters, is quoting only certain positions of Banka Slovenije, then, colleague Verbič, I expect you to follow also Banka Slovenije, which proposes the prior licensing of candidates for members of the Supervisory Board, not just members of administrations. Yes, you refused this in March 2015 and Nova Slovenija did not. Because if we have a regulator, this is Banka Slovenije, then let's give him all the maximum tools. Banka Slovenije advocates, as you heard on the Committee on Finance, prior licensing. Then it would not have happened what it is, that is, this disgraceful recruitment into the supervisory council of the Bank of Slovenia. Like a mag. Marko Pogačnik warned, today we do not have a complete supervisory board, we do not even know what is going on with the administration of this largest state bank. And I say that the networks that rule strongly in the back already have their long hunters pointed at the New Ljubljana Bank, which is another one of the spoils that can probably be privatized in such a way or other. If we are already in the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, you, a respected coalition, will have to correct the state property management strategy, because there are issues concerning the New Ljubljana Bank written wrongly and not in accordance with the European legal order, more precisely with the free movement of capital because you wrote that there is no concentration within the New Ljubljana Bank over the state's share, it is over 25% plus one share. I have the rulings of the EU Court of Justice where the European Commission has sued and, of course, has received an action when it has sued individual countries that have restricted the free movement of capital. This is an exclusive example of limiting the free movement of capital. This is where Slovenia will lose. As soon as possible to change the Capital Investment Management Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u35	Is it a replica? Replica, mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President. I must give the honourable Member a few words. I'll be very brief. As far as you are concerned, when you said that I used the word unprofessionally and similarly regarding your proposal, you misunderstood me completely. In that part, I quoted only what you have just read, namely that the position of the Bank of Slovenia regarding the proposed solution reflects a number of professional concerns. This is not my assessment of your proposal. Even further, when you said in some direction that I was so limited, I would ask that when we talk about the positions of banks, we have all the banks operating in the Republic of Slovenia in front of us. So now or so far in your debate or on the parental committees, we talk as if in the Republic of Slovenia there are only three banks owned by the state and we do not have 13 banks owned by private property or owned by other countries. When we touch on the Banking Act 2 or the licensing of members of the Supervisory Board, we must have eyes to see what this means for legal entities operating in the Republic of Slovenia. I myself have a firm position – and we will be more in the debate on licensing – that as Members we must have a view of how we can reach out to this free market, because we all want foreigners, or investors or new owners, to come to our place. Given that you have commented on Banka Slovenije, which now advocates licensing members already in the ZBan-2 procedure. I am also surprised by this close facility at Banka Slovenije to ensure better governance through licensing, again, only the state-owned bank, because we are talking about these three at this moment – in 2013 there were 5 or 6. We are not talking at all about the fact that there are so many banks in the Slovenian space that act as legal persons. Why is it obvious that the Bank of Slovenia is now underlining licensing? I have here an immediate question, to which I have not yet received any answers on the parental boards, which is why I am also putting it here. By 2013 or 2014, why has the Bank of Slovenia not withdrawn any licence from the members of the board or dismissed a member of the Supervisory Board? We will certainly touch on this further, given that in 2011 a decision was very clearly taken from the level of the vice-governors or the board of banks, which means the responsibility of the members of the board of supervisors. This is why this is a thought, and what is it now at one time that this establishment will miraculously license members of the Supervisory Board, which means an intervention into the right of the owner. In some respects, your colleague said before well that it is the owner who must have the right to decide who he trusts to control his property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u37	The proposer came forward again. So the text has a representative of the proposer, Mr Joseph Horvat, and then I will really open up for applications.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, Mr Verbic, but it must be understood that the banking system is something other than a shoe factory. Of course the owner has the right, but Banka Slovenije is the central regulator in the Republic of Slovenia, a kind of supervisor of all banks, independent of ownership. If we look at it, Comrade Verbic, the bank and Probank were private banks. We're gonna have to put our money out of our pockets, of course, not directly, into the rehabilitation of these two banks. A few hundred million took these banks away. If we were on a parliamentary commission of inquiry and listened to the people who ran these two banks, it would make me feel very strange not to use any unworthy words in this Chamber. People lost their memory of what they were doing two, three years ago. They lost their memory of giving them very favorable loans, lost their memory, whose subsidiaries were run by their family members, and received very favorable housing loans, much more favourable than Simona Dimic, of whom much is written. It is therefore necessary to understand the function of the Bank of Slovenia. I respect the interest of the Bank of Slovenia, which suggests that it would be better to legitimize the licensing of a candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board, so that, as we say, this personnel fiasco would not happen to us as it happened to us. But the problem is, there's that caravan in the back, and that's what we're afraid of. Here we speak and make efforts to propose laws solely to protect our citizens and citizens, because whatever is wrong in this country, they come to demonstrate in front of this house, not in front of the Bank of Slovenia. It's rarer before the government. Before this house come to be demonstrated by people and rightly come here to demonstrate. Do you know what they're telling us? That is why we must be decisive here, and we must demand the manner in which it is recruited and monitored. But if someone doesn't stick to it and if someone is going to play on these demands of our law, the prison sentence, the fine, is higher than it is now in the government proposal, let's say, like the ones proposed by our colleagues in the SDS, or even higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u39	I'll take that as two. First of all, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u40	President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting here in the hall! When we talk about banks, it all reminds us of the 5 billion hole or, as I have already heard today, something more, but the fact is that in 2013, 2014 the government recapitalised 3.2 billion, or 8.7 GDP, or, if you want, one third of the state budget. This law that we have here today is written on the skin of current owners or bankers. At the same time, as Horvath said, it is a copy paste, of course with one trick and 17 months late. The Government also stated that the resolution measures to be taken into account by the Bank of Slovenia are also provided in this law, and in the course of these measures the Government also states that the shareholders of the bank in the resolution process are the first to cover the losses. Of course, I completely agree with that. Next among the measures, they also state that the managing authority and the senior management of the bank in the resolution process are, as a rule, replaced, unless blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. I don't know why we have a "right" here and a "unless." I don't know, maybe it would be better if we wrote "unless it's a politically appropriate frame, then it won't change." Next, the next step. The responsibility of individuals and legal persons for the failure of the bank shall be established in accordance with the general rules of the contract and so on. We well know how these treaties and these general rules have been drawn up and that no one has ever been sanctioned, let alone answered. This has been repeatedly mentioned in regard to the poor management of banks and the appointment of supervisory boards. The fact is that we have bad banking legislation in Slovenia and we are ultimately responsible for the collapse of banks. We have also tabled amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party and have pointed out disproportionateity in relation to other laws or other legislation. If I give the case that a legal person or independent entrepreneur for the lack of keeping records of guests is punished with the same fine as the responsible person of the bank, I think this is a question of a healthy farmer's mind or logic. I think this is where all logic ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u42	Good afternoon, Members and Members. When we have a few less important debates in this Chamber, there are people in this room, and there are debates that are nervous, nervous, dynamic, but when we talk about billions, I feel that few of us are interested in these matters. If I am a little more plastic, then people need to be made clear that this last bank recovery cost us 2 000 500 euros per head. Every citizen, including the one with the minimum wage, had to contribute EUR 2 000 500 for this last bank recovery. Each can calculate that those who receive a minimum wage practically work almost half a year for this money. Therefore, I think that the debate on these two laws, which we are debating today and which are related to banks in one way or another, is very important and also a key debate for the future of Slovenia. It seems that this second bank recovery will not be the last to be followed. Even in this light, this legislation is now being prepared to lay down clear rules on how certain banks will be terminated or closed at home. Of course, the key issues here are details. Certainly one of the key issues is the appointment of the supervisory boards of the bank itself, i.e. the appointment of those who supervise the banks themselves. If these overseers are good, then they can prevent a number of foolish administrations — gambling, unwise decisions. However, if these overseers are foolish, superficial, they can still make a significant contribution to the increase in bad claims or the poor operation of banks. I think we have a concrete example from the past that we don't need to detect hot water, but we can only go back a little bit of old newspapers or look at a little bank business in the past, where we can very quickly figure out the difference between good and bad supervisors. We had two different types of banks in Slovenia after the end of this economic junction or even during the economic junction. On the one hand we had state-owned state banks, with state-appointed supervisors, administrations and so on, on the other hand we had private-owned banks. I think that this crisis that followed and also the time of the conjuncture for all were the same. However, there was a significant difference in the operation of individual banks depending on what supervisors had and thus on the management. Our domestic administrations in the state and even in these small private banks have proved to be very poor. Anyone who has been a member of the parliamentary commission of inquiry for at least some time on banks in this or the previous term knows a lot of interesting stories about how credit was sometimes done. For example, the multimillion-dollar one, practically without any debate on credit committees, and the five-ten-thousand-thousand-euro ones, with a high degree of precision and care. These were practices supported by overseers in one way or another. What happened in the end or the finale of all this I said at the beginning — another rehabilitation of the banking system that hit us all badly in the pocket. If we want to prevent these things at any time in the future, or at least soften them, then of course what supervisory councils in banks will be crucial. This is important. That is why in New Slovenia we have prepared a relatively simple solution, which would certainly produce results, which is that potential future supervisors would also be judged after the past work. Now all things are based on trust. Trust can be good, but even better is control. When we reviewed and compared practices in other countries, we wanted some tangible, as precise criteria as possible to identify who is suitable and who is not suitable for a supervisor. In our search for these criteria, we have come up with a solution to take into account their past work in the appointment of supervisors, in particular the share of the bad claims that banks in which these supervisors were working before a certain task force in the supervisory board. I can hardly imagine a more tangible criterion. Well, I can accept the arguments of the Ministry of Finance, because here is an unusual story, which I will then briefly describe, or others who have opposed this proposal, that this criterion is too strict for some even. Okay, but then suggest that you complete this solution with new criteria. It seems to me the worst thing we have today is that it is practical to have some personal trust without some tangible and serious criteria, but if we want to have good and quality oversight councils in the future, then it is imperative that we set tangible criteria for the appointment of overseers. At least we came up with a proposal, offered a proposal about how we imagine these things. In the first phase, even the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble, thought this was our solution and the idea of good. When he called me, he said that this solution seemed good to him. The result was most likely that the government, alone in another law, literally copied or accepted our salvation. I have no problem with this, and at that point I was happy, in the sense that at least one smart decision is finally also in the government to summarize some opposition proposals and include them. If this is about the "presence" problems, I do not care whether Dušan Maramor or Nova Slovenija is signed under the final solution, it is important that these things actually come to pass. That's why I was at that first stage when this solution came into government law, happy and pleased, but my fellow Members warned me all the time that something stinks here, that this matter would not end well, and they insisted that, despite the fact that the Government has copied our solution, we still submit our marriage. Although I was wrong and now I can admit back that I too naively believed that the Government would finally withdraw and implement our proposal, my colleagues were right when they said that we prefer to submit our own marriage just in case. In fact, the following story shows that even though the Government came with this proposal, it then listened to some whisperers who said that this solution was not good, and with the coalition they practically threw this solution out of the bill. If I now focus again on the appointment of supervisors alone, I think that this law, which is also a government law talking about how banks are going to shut down or how it will be resolved, is about all other things. It says who will first bear the burden of possible bank failure – from shareholders, holders of capital instruments to other creditors. It's all in there. Okay. It also speaks of what is logical, that if the bank is in difficulty and it has to be resolved to replace the management that has brought the bank into such a situation — that is, logically — and that the new management must be co-operated with all law enforcement authorities and other institutions involved in the resolution of banks. I have no problems with these three solutions, and at least I do not have problems, but I feel that there is a key element missing, and these are more precise rules regarding supervisors. This was the solution we wanted to implement in New Slovenia, propose and add. Don't say we're rediscovering some hot water. Read the comparative reviews of other countries with what care they call bank supervisors in other countries. I think that it is in Slovenia in this area, including this new amendment, that legislation is the most volatile. And it is precisely because of this hole that the third bank recovery will be possible in the future and we will be giving again from our pockets to rehabilitate the banking system, because of this – I will not go down for reasons, but there are certain reasons – because the government coalition did not want to listen to it to tighten the criteria for appointing bank supervisors. We are not alone in these demands. My colleague Horvat also spoke about the discussions of the Bank of Slovenia, which discusses the licensing of candidates. I think it's very interesting and unusual that this government coalition somehow threw this licensing out of law. I don't know what the reasons led you to this. It would be good for coalition Members to discuss these matters a little bit, to present to the general public what are the reasons why you do not agree to the licensing of supervisors, because I think that – otherwise, it would not be the way we propose – the ultimate goal is the same as we want it to be. Thus, in order to provide clear criteria for future supervisors and to fail to meet these criteria, it would simply not be possible to occupy these supervisory posts. I would also like to hear in today's debate representatives of the Ministry of Finance why, if they have listened to Banka Slovenije and other stakeholders in this law, why they do not listen to Banka Slovenije in the event of licensing. That would be an interesting answer. I don't want you to talk again in 5 or 10 years that due to lack of care, there was a hole in the marriage that allowed strange and unusual things. But I'm sure, given the way things are going in the current direction, it certainly won't be the last rescue, there's probably going to be another bank going down in the future. Even the things now going on around the New Ljubljana Bank regarding this proposed way of privatisation are not the most encouraging. And it is for all these reasons that this Parliament should be even more concerned with the creation of legislation. Let me conclude with this – I think that I have already repeated it 10 times today, but it is no shame if the eleventh time – that we will obviously include all things, we will clearly write all things, how we are doing things, or how to do things in the case of bank closures, bank withdrawals, what responsibility someone has, and we will forget about the key thing, which is to get proper and competent supervisors. This question will need to be answered and this question will need to be answered primarily by the coalition and the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Any other discussion on Article 215? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 233 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. With regard to Article 233, we have tabled these amendments primarily because this is also a follow-up to the previous amendment, so to speak 215. By submitting this amendment, it has been found that we can further monitor efficiency, especially in that the body responsible for such procedures, namely the Bank of Slovenia, can be significantly more expedient in these procedures in the resolution and termination of banks, since this service is therefore also an effective body. This will literally optimise all such processes precisely because these procedures are swift and there is as little possibility of avoiding the parties in the process at the expense of so-called administrative or procedural procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 259 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go, mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the SDS Group, we have re tabled an amendment that changes fines and fines, especially their height. In the SDS, we are convinced that the fines proposed by the proposer are not proportionate to the others, so we propose certain corrections, namely that these fines are actually increased for irregularities and for offences.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u48	I would only like to express my support for these changes. I think it makes sense for these things to adjust and settle. Another important thing here is this educational aspect, if I may say so, because if people have the impression that a more severe punishment is someone who drives 10 kilometers per hour more over you than someone who is responsible for millions of dollars of damage, then we really don't go in the right direction. Balancing, or the right way of punishing, and the height of fines, is also important to me in terms of creating greater justice. That's why I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u49	Proposer, please. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much. As a proposal, I would like to express my support for the amendment to Article 259 of the SDS Collegiate. When we wrote our amendment to the Banking Act and made an international comparison, as required by the rules, of course we looked at solutions in Germany. Germany adopted its Banking Act in July 2013 and implemented the required Directive. Among other things, as far as punishing violations is concerned, there is the next – just to say a few basic dimensions, that we will have a picture, but of course I do not advocate that all the solutions from any country, in particular Germany, be translated into our environment. Not all solutions can be made, but maybe a concept can be developed. Here it reads: "New Banking Act," of course in Germany, "condemns infringements of fundamental statutory obligations of management, namely in the event of failure to comply with a decision of the supervisory authority which imposes a remedy for deficiencies in risk management within a reasonable period of time, thereby jeopardising the continued functioning of an institution, a parent undertaking or group as an operating entity. The sentences are up to five years in prison," I would like to point out, up to five years in prison, "or cash, but they must not exceed 10.8 million euros." This is the penalty ceiling in Germany – €10.8 million. Similar penalties also apply to the insurance sector in Germany. However, I think it is right for the Slovenian gabarits to accept the penalties proposed by their colleagues from the SDS. I express my support for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 260 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 268 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members and of the SD Group of Members. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Article 268, in fact, tackles the dilemma that is currently under discussion in the consideration of the amendments, in particular Article 115, which had a completely different content. This is therefore an amendment proposing that a member of the Bank's supervisory board is required for the appointment of a member of the Bank of Slovenia or a bank regulator. No one who takes such a responsible place as the seat of a member of the Supervisory Board can do so without the prior consent of the Bank of Slovenia. This gives an answer to this debate, which has been held today, how important the function of a member of the supervisory board in the banking system is. In addition, we can also talk about making this a much clearer responsibility, both for the procedure itself and, of course, for the supervision of the work of banks. As far as owners are concerned, I can say from the experience we have with the Bank of Slovenia commission to investigate a bank hole – with a reduced name – that it is also of interest to private owners that the Bank of Slovenia, as the supreme regulator, alerts the owner to any bad work or to the performance of the duties of members of the supervisory board. Of course, this procedure, which is linked to a prior consent to appoint someone, will also be linked to a discharge procedure. This can certainly bring us closer to trying to give a clearer response to the consequences of the bank hole in Slovenia – €5.2 billion – we can now measure this bank hole, which certainly has a strong impact on the social situation of people. The public debt of Slovenia has increased, budgets must take into account the limits laid down by the fiscal rule, all of which, of course, is then known mainly in the situation of people and, of course, in the development of investments. The consequences of bank management, therefore, are not only the consequences within the banking system itself, but the banking system is an extremely important and, in fact, a robust system to enable the economy to function successfully so that it can invest in development. Because it is not to be expected that companies will have so much accumulation that they will finance everything from their own resources, and it is not to be expected that the savers will have enough of our own resources and we will say for what more extensive rehabilitation of the apartment, house or purchase of other things we provide money only from our own pocket, so we need a bank. However, this bank must ensure that the money in which you deposit your deposit has a very clear control criteria and, above all, responsible management. This system certainly cannot work successfully if even Banka Slovenije as supreme regulator has no more influence than it has so far had on this operation. It is true, however, that we must also clear this issue of the independence of Banka Slovenije in this sense, whether the Court of Auditors is also competent to look into the operations of Banka Slovenije or not. In fact, any procedure that has so far proved, or everywhere, where we have encountered the so-called bank secrecy and confidentiality of the data, we find that there is still a need for additional supervision, so that such immunity is not abused, if I may say so. The Court of Auditors is also the supreme audit house in the country and it is right that it has an insight into the business, operation and decision of the Bank of Slovenia in the future. I also say this because it would not be possible for the regulator to have ideas, but that some things might not be taken into account. It is true, however, that the system itself is upgraded in the sense that, in addition to the national regulator, it naturally has an insight into the applications for supervisory board candidates, including the European Central Bank, and this is certainly one of the good things that have been agreed primarily in the last period of this severe financial and economic crisis. Therefore, with the amendment, we really want to achieve greater responsibility in the appointment and, consequently, in the management of individual banks. This applies to both state and private banks. Therefore, it may also be possible to say in this context, because it has been mentioned many times today that the only solution for banks is sales and privatisation, but, with respect, the global economic crisis has been caused by the poor management of private, private banks. The state banks have not caused the global economic and financial crisis. So it's not a solution for selling, selling, and I don't know what else we're dealing with in Slovenia. I think we also need to look at the free movement of capital in the sense that we have on the market a wide enough spectrum of banks that you can invest money into and where you can go for credit if you need it. It's that form of free movement of capital. However, if you are ordered to sell a bank in 2017, regardless of whether this customer is good and what the price is achieved for it, it is not a free flow of capital, but it is mainly a misuse of power, the position of the one who ordered it, or the overreliance of the one who agreed to it. In this regard, further negotiations and coordination with the European Commission must be conducted in Slovenia in order to clear this issue of the so-called free movement of capital. For if you allow someone to recapitalise the Slovenian bank, for example – if we now return to the New Maribor Credit Bank – with 800 million, you sell for 250 and guarantee the possible damage that would have occurred in the bank due to the loss of the claim against subordinated bonds, that is, of course, far from what is the logic of free capital. According to one basic logic, the market is expected to contribute to the ability of those who sell their services to survive as much as possible. If you limit it in this way, then of course it means that you tried to make a profit to someone at the expense of the third, in this case, because the state bank is being sold, at the expense of all of us who have taken on our shoulders a charge of EUR 5.2 billion for the payment of these banks. In particular, the responsible management of banks is crucial, and owners, both private and state, must still be of some interest so that their shares and equity are not redeemed and their equity is lost. The Bank of Slovenia, which also supports such a solution, which is enshrined in the amendment that I am talking about right now, can do much to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I must also mention that the coalition has also tabled an amendment to Article 268, in order to add a new second paragraph, in particular because we follow the fundamental rule that the same matter cannot be regulated in two different laws. By implementing or adopting the proposal of this law that we have before us today, it is practically proposed that this amendment deletes two articles of the Banking Act, which speaks or defines the same topic or is identical. That is why we have tabled this amendment, which is coalitionly coordinated. However, I would like to touch something because I think it's a red thread all the time and has been present for some time in this National Assembly, even today. A colleague explained their amendment, which is linked to 268, and talked about licensing members of the Supervisory Board. I think it is right that even here, although I may be able to repeat myself a little bit, they make very clear their views and say why in some direction we are not inclined to do so, as it is shown that once the licensing of members of the supervisory board has been introduced, governance in state-owned banks will miraculously be resolved. I am still in position, and I also make it clear that this is political demagogism. Either way, you understand or you're watching. I will reiterate that the case of appointment of members of the Supervisory Board to the NLB is recently an extremely poor case of practice. Good thing he got away with it the way he did. However, I have a strong view that, because of such a case, especially in the system of recruiting members of the supervisory board of banks owned by the State, we, as legislators of the Republic of Slovenia, must not penalise all owners of legal persons, in this case banks and savings banks operating in the Republic of Slovenia. I repeat, we must be aware that we have these immediate three state-owned banks. The bank that operates in the Republic of Slovenia, along with the savings banks, I don't think I'll be too wrong if I say it's 18. In view of that, we must have another matter before our eyes. Most likely we have an interest, given that we are members of the European Union, that foreign owners also come to our Slovenian banking area is said to be owners. By practically introducing an instrument called the licensing of members of the Supervisory Board for the sake of domestic banks, what is in a business world, in fact, in a financial world, and even if we look at the neighbouring countries, which is at odds with all business logic. Here I have to admit - and again in a certain direction I turn to the proponents, not the coalition, but, above all, the colleagues of New Slovenia – that the fact that the Slovenian acquis is an integral part of the so-called German acquis, where we have a simple summary of the legal order between Austria and Germany in both the economic and financial fields. We just have to be aware of that. Even in this national assembly, I have asked or warned several times whether anyone can tell me if this, that is, licensing members of the supervisory board, is a miraculous solution to corporate bank management. If it were, I am sure that both the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Germany would have introduced such an instrument 100 years ago as a precondition for the selection and designation of the most trusted persons, in this case members of the Supervisory Board. What I miss a little bit about this debate by colleagues who so advocate licensing is to look at the competence of the members of the Supervisory Board once again. Let us look at the Company Act, and I will also touch on the decision of the Bank's Council on jurisdiction. The members of the Governing Council are not those who miraculously save and influence. They have power, they have powers, but the problem of bank management in this case when we talk about banks are administrations. With regard to administrations, we have legislation that I can say is very good, because we have the licensing that they have in Austria and in Germany and in all countries that really follow that any abuses can take place in certain procedures of compensation and criminal liability. If the Republic of Slovenia has previously provided legislation in this area in the decade, which is a hollow – this is a reality, unfortunately so – but this is why we cannot say that licensing is one that will solve the matter in some way. One more thing. Articles 57 and 273 of the Banking Act-2 speak very clearly [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u55	The speaker has the floor, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For a short period of time, Article 268. But I'm going to start by feeling that it's a fact, colleagues and colleagues, that we're too small to point out to the members of the supervisory board when we find such a terrible bank hole. They're over the administration. The Supervisory Board is setting up right now. Because of me, the supervisory board can have any bank meeting every week. I don't care. The key is that the Supervisory Board, which oversees the functioning of the administration and also sets up the administration. We all watch too many times who was the president of a bank's administration with a big bank hole, but we forget or we don't know how to list the president and members of the supervisory board of the same bank with a big bank hole. Since I can see that some Twitters don't understand, I'll do it again. In 268, the government – okay, in good faith – copied the New Slovenia solution. So she found an excuse for both laws, namely the government law on bank resolution and forcible termination and the amendment to the Banking Act, which she considered as a hybrid in the New Slovenia proposal, meaning on the labour market and at the same point in the agenda? Of course, by voting, our law was actually removed. At first glance, it seemed fine, but the amendment of the coalition was such that the actual solution, the solution of New Slovenia, in article 268, was eliminated. Now we are forgetting a bit about the opinion of the Legislature. Sometimes that's a good idea, but sometimes it doesn't suit us. We have to respect him here. Both the Social Democrats' proposal and the coalition's proposal, as far as the amendments to Article 268, are concerned, are both infringing on the Banking Act. It is said that we have an intervention in the Banking Act from the Bank Rescue and Forced Cessation Act. The legislative service says – I am not a lawyer, but I read this opinion – that this is not in accordance with the rule of law. Article 2 of the Constitution: "Slovenia is a rule of law and a social state." Although we are closer to the amendment of the Social Democrats, which introduces prior licensing, which is also in line with the recommendations of the Bank of Slovenia. None of the amendments, not from the Social Democrats, nor from the entire coalition, are in conformity with the rule of law. We have a problem. It's hard to make up your mind here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u58	Ambassador Verbič, I admire how you're trying to defend your position and your right, but you'll probably agree that we also have licenses for driving exams, let's say, if I make this a little easier. If you want to drive a car today, you have to go through some kind of licensing. You have to take the exam, you have to fulfill certain characteristics and all sorts of things. Even if you do this licensing, of course, this does not mean that you will never cause an accident, that you will always drive by the rules and so on. What am I trying to say? You're absolutely right when you say that licensing alone won't solve everything. But you probably agree that there are many things that can prevent prevention. If we draw the parallel with the driving test again, probably well-trained drivers are even safer on the roads than they are incompetent. Of course, 100% of security assurances are not anywhere. It's exactly the same in the banking system. We will never be able to go into the brain of one, if I exaggerate a little bit, in the way one overseer operates and tell him what is right and what is wrong, to influence his work, unfortunately there are also bad people living among us, but I am sure that with certain processes that will be known in advance, at least most of the potentially bad candidates will be eliminated. This is what we are trying to make this banking sector better and to avoid potential new banking recoverys in the future. I believe that at least in this part we agree that not all mistakes and all things will be resolved, but they will be substantially reduced, and this is also a step forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u60	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We are at the amendment proposed by the SD Group of Members to introduce licensing for members of the supervisory board of banks operating in the field of Slovenia. On my own proposal, I have quite a few concerns. The first point is to include the matter in a law that has something to do with banking, but does not talk about relevant routes. I am more convinced that if we were already going to amend this provision, it should be amended in the Banking Act. It is true that this last 168th article also speaks of these amendments that touch the Banking Act, but I am convinced that we have too widely dispersed legislation in Slovenia, and the point is that in Slovenia, when we transpose in one law a connection with another law, we come to complete non-transparency and that most Slovenian legislation is pre-orbited. And with such processes that are being proposed now, we are only increasing this issue. If anyone has already decided on this, I propose that the Banking Act, proposal and supplement be opened and that this matter be done. Not that we are talking today about the law on the rehabilitation of the banking system, because the opposition group has proposed something, but the coalition and the President of the National Assembly have violated the rules of procedure and also the sense of democracy in Parliament, you have prevented the debate, opened the law and then discussed it, and there would be amendments to the Banking Act and additions concerning the members of the Supervisory Council. But now that someone wants to at least sort of fix this thing, the Social Democrats have decided to put an amendment in. I don't think it's the right way, it's not the right way, because it makes things more complicated after all. My personal opinion on the licensing of supervisory boards by the Bank of Slovenia. On the one hand, I have substantial concerns here, because I am sure that we are talking about the responsibility of the owners here, and the owner should be so responsible as to appoint or propose a member for the Supervisory Board who meets all the criteria. I am confident that if the owner is responsible if the owner is aware of the importance of the assets he holds in certain banks, he will also appoint such a member for the Supervisory Board, who will meet all the conditions. But the problem is right here somewhere else. We always have a problem in the management of state assets and I always have a problem with the appointment of supervisory board members in the area of banks with 100 % of state ownership. This means that the government, the Ministry of Finance and, finally, the coalition are jointly responsible and that the state is irresponsible owner because it cannot take care of its assets, or that there are some other interests behind it. I'm sure the private owner of the bank will appoint such a supervisory council to protect his assets. Last but not least, when we talk so much about responsibility and everything, the fact that the Company Act clearly states that members of the Supervisory Board are responsible for all their own assets. If someone estimates that the supervisors have failed to perform their tasks, shareholders shall lodge damages or even criminal liability against them. This has not been done in Slovenia, in my opinion, except for certain exceptions, but not in the banking sector where the country should cause these manoeuvres. But if we are talking about this licensing now, how will we say to some foreign banks operating in Slovenia, who probably have as much moral and ethical responsibility as they do at a higher level, such as the management of state assets in Slovenia, when they take away someone who has a lot of experience in banking, then they will wait here for the Bank of Slovenia, whether they will give him a license or not. I also have concerns about the operation of the Bank of Slovenia. I am confident that Banka Slovenije will have to take responsibility for the banking system and the bank hole that we have already fixed for the second time by taxpayers. The problems in banking in Slovenia are only in banks that are owned directly or indirectly by the state. About banks operating under foreign owners in Slovenia, I don't think it was very much written except for the bank Hypo, but there the owners themselves made sure that they replaced the administration, that they replaced the supervisory councils, and then the prosecution and the judges in the neighbouring countries brought the case to a close. Would that help or not, that the bank would now be the one to give the prior consent? I have one thought, perhaps. The case of Mr Gedrich, who was appointed by the State as a member of the NLB Supervisory Board when there was so much dust raised. But this respected Mr Gedrich, before being appointed by the Slovenian State Holding Council as a member of the NLB Supervisory Board, served as the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in Abank. Now tell me, what could Banka Slovenije do here? Or why did Banka Slovenije not react, for example, when Vera Mihatovic became President of the Supervisory Board of the Factor Bank, and this same person received a life-long ban on all bank transactions in Serbia? Here Banka Slovenije could react, but it is not, but it refers to the fact that they did not have this information. I am thus more in favour of the position that the owner is the one responsible for appointing members of the Supervisory Board and that he should be primarily in the interest of the one who puts it, that is, the shareholder of a bank, the Supervisory Board. However, we know that the congregation appoints supervisory councils, but someone else suggests it. I don't think we can go past the will of the owners, because then we really can't bring down that crucial system of the rule of law. For if we tell us that if the owner appoints someone he wants, it is his responsibility, but if the supervisory board works badly, the owner will feel the result, because the owner will have to pay the damage or lose the property. I think we are going to Slovenia now on some very dangerous path. But if we're going to introduce regulation here to ban something from the owner, then I don't know what it's gonna be like. But I think it is very reasonable to summarise the German constitution, which beautifully states that the property owner is responsible for the management of ownership and that the property is a liability. We are not aware of this in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you. It's a small answer. Each owner is interested in having as much staff as possible in the supervisory board. If it goes through the Bank of Slovenia procedure, it is an additional guarantee. I do not know the owner who would say that he would not accept the candidate assessed by Banka Slovenije. In any event, the owner will have the possibility to propose, but of course he will have this procedure, which is linked to the previous consent of the Bank of Slovenia. Regarding political demagogies – the owners themselves told the investigative commission that they wanted more control by the Bank of Slovenia. Your Honor, you're talking about the owners. What if something's wrong? It's a responsibility to people. We're representatives of the people. If we don't sharpen this, we'll have EUR 5.2 billion again in one time, for which people will be responsible, not owners.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you. I have to answer something that my colleague from the Social Democrats has just said. I find it difficult to accept these arguments that you said you could trust me more with Banka Slovenije. I don't trust them. Let's just see what's going on with Factor Bank and Probank. Here Banka Slovenije has appointed an extraordinary administration and was at the same time a supervisory council. However, it turns out that, due to the accession of Probank and Factor Bank, we will be able to recapitalise the Company for the enforcement of claims with approximately EUR 50 million. The Bank of Slovenia appointed the Supervisory Board and the Supreme Administration, and then it was possible to recapitalise the DUTB. But the owner is, in my opinion, responsible for setting up such a supervisory board as he is. We really do work here for people who have also elected us, but, dear colleague Weber, when you said that now the National Assembly is also responsible for this bank hole, I find it difficult to agree with you. Policy is responsible and those who have been employed in banks are responsible for those who were then members of the administration and the supervisory board. The National Assembly has no influence on that. The shareholder shall always have the right to file criminal charges, indemnity liability of all of these. However, we probably know who were members of the supervisory boards, members of the boards, under all the contracts, even two signatures or more on certain contracts. I think we have all the legal means that these funds are somehow trying to recover. I am sure that this licensing is, in my opinion, just one additional bureaucratic apparatus, which I am sure will not lead to the goal that we are talking about here, but that the owners or shareholders must take care of themselves here, who will eventually control their property as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u66	I myself said in the introduction that the Court of Auditors should also be given jurisdiction over the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia. This is also one of the ones we have not yet completed in Slovenia, and this is one of the additional solutions. However, it is strange to say that the owner does not need the advice of the regulator.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u68	I, in all regulators in Slovenia, in ATVP, AZNJ, Banka Slovenije and finally in the Court of Auditors, miss being a consultative body, not only a regulator and those who punish. That anyone who is a shareholder or subject to the regulation of these bodies, which I have just mentioned, may also turn to them for advice, but not that this is some kind of obligation, that it is a requirement. It can be a recommendation. But the recommendation and the advice are not yet binding. However, if we bring this matter to law, this matter will be binding. That's what I was saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 268.a and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided within half an hour following the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving on to 12. AT THE TIME OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER CONSTRUCTION OF THE COST LEGISLATION IN THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u70	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! On 1 July, it will be 17 years from the entry into force of the excise regime in our area. Since 1999, the law has changed 14 times and has been amended. This time, for reasons of transparency, the Government proposes to deal with a new law in order to reduce or eliminate the administrative burden on the economy in fulfilling tax obligations in areas where the risks of illicit behaviour are low due to compliance with European legislation and the changing market situation. Here I am thinking mainly about the size of the market with new tobacco products and the spread of small beer producers. Let me also present the novelties of the bill by content or by type of excise goods. In the field of energy and electricity, the exemption of excise duty is abolished for those energy consumed for the production of non-consumer products because such exemption is incompatible with the European Directive and is replaced by a measure to exempt excise duty on energy-intensive enterprises. The excise duty on electricity will be charged according to the quantitative rate of consumption. Customers are divided into four customer groups, which will allow the differentiation of excise duty mainly for larger or industrial customers, with a view to decommissioning the economy and neutralising the burden by environmental pollution charge by carbon dioxide emissions. In the context of the treatment of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, the largest changes relate to small producers of all types of alcoholic beverages. The amendments are foreseen for all groups of excise products. In the field of beer, an institute of small beer producers is introduced and the excise duty is reduced for them. In the field of burning, the scheme is aligned with the provisions of European legislation, since small producers of combustion under the existing regulation are inadequately regulated. However, in the area of wine production, administrative simplifications are introduced for the sale of wine to other Member States under suspension of excise duty. For all small producers, both in the field of wine, beer and spirit, the law provides for administrative simplification, so that they do not need to be notified of the performance of the activity, but that the tax authority will enter them into the register of excise duties. In the field of tobacco products, new products are included in these products, namely heating tobacco, which occurs only in some EU Member States and electronic cigarettes, which are already quite widespread in the world and are also gaining popularity and are increasingly being used as substitutes for conventional cigarettes. These new products will be taxed according to the content of the filling, tobacco or liquid with nicotine and taxation is comparable to the taxation of fine-cut tobacco. However, between administrative simplifications applicable to all excise duties or all excise goods, I should point out two in particular. The suspension of the compulsory bill of excise duty for each month, even if no excise duty has been imposed and the applications for reimbursement of excise duty may be submitted electronically, which has not been possible so far. In conclusion, the proposal does not change the rates or amounts of excise duty in force, retains the share of excise duty reimbursements for each purpose of the consumption of excise goods and will therefore have a neutral financial impact on the budget. Nor will it have a direct impact on other public funds. While individual amendments to the law will have minor financial implications for the state budget, some will provide lower additional revenues, others will reduce them slightly, and the overall impact, as I have already mentioned, will be more or less neutral. It takes into account all of the above, I propose that the National Assembly support the proposal for a law, but at the same time I propose that, if the business conditions are met, a third consideration of the proposal for a law at this meeting of the National Assembly be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u72	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 25th session, on 1. 6. 2016 as a parent working body was considered by the Government's proposal for a excise act submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, a letter or comments from the Association of Winemakers, an opinion from the Commission of the State Economic, Crafts, Tourism and Finance Council, two letters from GEN-I, amendments from the parliamentary groups tabled, and an amendment from the Committee. Within a time limit, one amendment to the draft law was tabled in the SDS and NSI parliamentary groups and a number of articles of the coalition's parliamentary group. Meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Elektro Energija Ljubljana, representatives of GEN-I, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and main solutions of the bill. She said that the Government had submitted a new excise law aimed at renovating the excise system in a financially neutral way. The bill removes administrative obstacles and transposes and harmonises certain provisions with European directives. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service made specific comments on each article of the bill and stated that the main comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The representative of the Council of State presented the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. The representative of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia drew attention to some of the uncertainties in the proposed law and believes that these uncertainties should be addressed. The representatives of the electricity distributors said they supported the bill, while pointing out a rather complex way of calculating excise duties. They also advocated better conditions for energy-intensive companies and proposed certain solutions. The representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, however, drew attention to the problematic regulation of the previous law, which would have damaged one economic operator in the past due to the non-return of paid excise duty. In the debate, members of the Committee drew attention to some aspects and highlighted above all the issue of excise duties on fine-cut tobacco, electronic cigarette trading, the issue of fuel prices and the taxation of alcoholic beverages. In the course of the discussion, the State Secretary provided additional explanations and also provided responses to interested public representatives. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered the amendments tabled to the article of the draft law. He accepted the coalition amendments, did not accept the amendment of SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups, and also adopted the amendment of the committee to Article 2 of the bill. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you again for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The draft Law on excise duties deals with tobacco, alcoholic beverages and electricity and energy products for which excise duty is paid. In Slovenia, it has been used for 17 years and has, of course, changed and complemented many times in 17 years. This law will thus be fully replaced by the old law and, of course, the recast of the law also means compliance with the European directives, and this law also means compliance with these Directives. The reform of the law is also, of course, an opportunity to reduce administrative burdens, which is particularly important for the economy, as administrative simplification is a burden for the part of the economy that produces, markets, imports or exports of excise goods. Since 2014, a good part of the tax system in the excise area has been transferred electronically and the new law also allows for electronic reimbursement of excise duty, starting next year. The new law also rescinds the way in which similar bills are made for excise duties and removes a considerable amount of reporting obligation for small consignments and low value goods. However, a good part of the law is intended for European harmonisation in the field of excise duties on energy. The main change will be to switch to excise duty over the quantitative classes of customers and it is also important for the economy that the exempt excise users are allowed to require reimbursement of excise duty subsequently. Furthermore, it is a very important relief in small breweries. Small beer producers are an economic sector that is growing in Slovenia, but they have been severely limited because most neighbouring countries offer the option of reducing excise duty for small breweries only if they have this status in their home country. We are therefore regulating the situation of small brewers and thus opening up a better market for further sale and, of course, the development of this important activity. There have been some changes in the law in the treatment of the labour force and in the public debate. Despite the fear that excise duties would increase and that drasticly high excise duties would be imposed on tobacco and alcohol products, this did not happen. The only change in this area is actually the introduction of a reasonable excise duty on filled electronic cigarettes which have not yet been subject to the excise system. With the new proposal of the excise law, we thus receive updated legislation that will significantly facilitate the work and business of economic operators. At the same time, of course, this does not mean an increase in costs for residents and residents. That's why we're going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. The proposed excise law does not introduce significant novelties regarding excise duties, and this is the key issue. Tax policy in Slovenia is unfair, so any proposal that preserves this injustice is unacceptable to us. The rapid comparison between Slovenia and the European Union shows that on the one hand we have an extremely low share of capital and property taxes. According to data for 2012, Slovenia was in the EU after the share of capital taxes in the EU's last-minute taxes. However, taking into account the size of the base for capital taxes, we find that even the last decade is exactly the last place between the 28 members, it is said that we have the lowest capital taxes. The problem is not only that the tax burden on capital and property is low, but that it is also socially unfair. Since Bajuk's reform in 2007, dividends and capital gains have been taxed separately from other incomes and the pensioner who owns one share pays the tax at the same rate as the director, who owns, say, 20% of the company. It is precisely because capital and property are not taxed that consumption is more taxed on the other hand. This means that the average person who spends most of his income from the outside is taxed on average rather than on those who have surpluses. Almost 40% of taxes are taxes on consumption, only 10% are taxes on capital. Slovenia strongly deviates from all consumption taxes, and especially from excise duties. How socially unfair this system is, let's see if we're just comparing the following numbers. Last year, we paid 5.3 billion taxes on goods and services, of which 1.5 billion were spent on fuel, alcohol and tobacco products and electricity. On the other hand, only 200 million real estate taxes were collected last year and less than EUR 100 million of income from capital revenues. It is said that 5.3 billion taxes on excise duties and similar and less than 300 million taxes on capital and property. Citizens are, of course, increasingly aware of who is in the interest of such a tax system, but key numbers need to be repeated again. According to a 2009 European Central Bank survey, the largest 10 % of the population is owned by 35% of all assets. 20% of the most powerful people in our country own a good 52% more assets, so more than four fifths of the other inhabitants together. On the other hand, we have the poorest 20%, which only owns 1.2% of the property. Unfortunately, this government's tax policy does not see this and is still in the interest of 10% of the most privileged. Last year, the coalition reduced its income by 12% of the best paid in the country. The new income scales proposed by the Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, NSI and SD are of particular interest to these 10% of the so-called upper middle class, although on the other hand we have more and more people in Slovenia who have so low incomes that they do not pay income. Of course, these residents pay fuel bills, especially for electricity, alcohol, and tobacco products. And now we're going to increase them. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the two contentious provisions of this law, which I will say in the debate. The first is the taxation of chopped tobacco, which is a cheaper substitute for cigarettes and is used primarily by the poor, where it can be seen at first glance that more expensive than cutting tobacco will be the purchase of tobacco products abroad and on the black market, and this will result in the loss of funds in the budget. Another problem is e-cigarettes, as the findings thus far show that there is a significantly less harmful alternative to classical tobacco and that they can be a means of reducing or abandoning smoking. By recklessly setting up excise duties in this area, as many in civil society warn, the development of the black market and online shopping will take place, not in classic shops with us, but again until the budget cuts. The United Left advocates higher taxation of high income and capital and, on the other hand, lower excise duties. Those who will remain will be used to steer economic development and consumption away from environmentally harmful practices. This law preserves injustice in our tax system, so we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and honourable Members! The proposal states in the draft excise legislation that the aim of the proposal is in particular to update and bring the provisions into line with the European directives into line with them, to remove administrative barriers and the uncertainties that have been shown in the implementation of the rules in practice. In Novi Slovenije, we draw attention to the position of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia at the time of consideration of this law. For the Chamber expects a more legally secure attitude towards the debtors under this law. The Chamber considers that, in particular in the field of tax legislation, there must not be such a nature that different interpretations are made at different times, especially in the case of interpretations to the detriment of economic operators. Any such intervention means a change in the position of an economic operator which could not reasonably be expected. From the proposal for a law, a number of proposals can be considered in several areas for the administrative burden on the taxpayers, which we welcome. These include, for example, the elimination of the unnecessary regular monthly payment of excise duties, the removal of reporting on imports and imports of those excise goods which are not subject to the duty to charge excise duty, the introduction of applications for reimbursement of excise duty in electronic form, the exemption of excise duty for occasional small consignments of excise goods and the simplification of the application and cancellation of excise duties. All of these are welcome changes to the regime, but Christian Democrats would like even more radical systemic intervention in the government's activities in administrative burdens, with which creative citizens can make their business easier to the best of their ability. New Slovenia – we also regret that, under the new law of brandykuma for personal use, special arrangements will no longer be enjoyed. The proposal for a law equates the production of spirits for sale by production for personal use. It is hard to understand that someone who cooks something out of the fruit of his own orchard for himself and for his fellowman must pay such a level of excise duty as other small adherents who sell their burnt offerings. This is justified by Article 22 of the European Directive 22-83/EC. However, this requirement is not clear from this Article of the Directive, so we would like the Government to explain it better. Christian Democrats, when dealing with a product manufactured exclusively for personal use, see a strong intervention in tax regulation, private personal and personal autonomy, so in our opinion the requirement for such a change of law should be much clearer and unequivocally justified. In Novi Slovenija we welcome some administrative burdens in this area, as the proposal, inter alia, removes the obligation to register combustion equipment and its sealing obligation. Members and Members of New Slovenia will abstain from voting on the draft law on excise duties.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u80	Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the excise law, the government has drawn up solutions that represent substantial administrative simplifications and lower costs to meet its excise duties. It is important that the law does not increase excise duties and that the solutions in the law do not go in the direction of increasing excise revenue at the expense of any category. Thus, this law will only contribute to reducing administrative barriers, thereby reducing operating costs for economic operators. However, there are also some solutions in the law that we want to mention. These solutions want to encourage a small economy in particular. The draft law thus redefines the status of small beer producers, since this status has not been defined by the law so far. The status of a small beer producer may be obtained by a person who produces up to 20 thousand hectolitres of beer annually. For the beer produced, the small producer will pay only 50% of the excise duty and 50% of the lower excise duty than the general duty. It is also very important that, by gaining the status of a small beer producer, the debtors can exercise the right to a lower excise duty in other Member States with comparable arrangements. With this in Slovenia we actually encourage small beer producers and allow them easier access to foreign markets. In the field of alcohol taxation, the status of a small wine producer is also introduced. This status is important for small wine producers to compete in foreign markets as well. This status allows them to send products to other members of the European Union without excise duty or in the system of deferral of excise duty. As regards the status of the small combustion producer, it should be noted that a person who does not produce more than 150 litres of 100 % ethyl ethyl alcohol per year will be able to obtain it under the new regime. This person will pay a excise duty of 50 % of the excise duty prescribed for ethyl alcohol and will have the opportunity to pay the excise duty at the end of the tax period and not for each month in particular as necessary so far. With regard to tobacco products, it should be noted that this new tobacco product law will define a new category of products which, in accordance with Article 81 of this Act, is classified as a group of tobacco products, namely heating tobacco and electronic cigarettes. The filling of these electronic cigarettes is produced by tobacco or liquid containing nicotine. How harmful new products like electronic cigarettes are, of course, to ordinary cigarettes, is a matter of debate, but the law will also introduce excise duty for electronic cigarettes, or they will be tax equivalent to other tobacco products. In the parliamentary group, we support all solutions that additionally tax the health of harmful products. Because the law does not raise excise duties and because the law will place a heavy burden on taxpayers and allow small wine and beer producers to better export their products, we will support the new excise law in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Before us is the first consideration of the draft law on excise duties. Initially, in the SDS Group, we would like to say that one part of the amendments to this law is certainly positive; positive in the work where administrative burdens are reduced in particular; and that the Government has followed the proposal of small brewers that they are subject to special status. In the SDS Group, we have also decided to table an amendment to the 79th Article of the Law, which speaks of roasters, small ones, in order to replace the word one hundred and fifty of the production of litres of 100 % alcohol with the word four hundred. We are convinced that such a change would be welcome, because the fact is that the same limit applies to small producers also in Austria. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we believe that this law will not change the attitude of this government towards excise policy, which, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we regard as inappropriate in particular in the field of both oil derivatives, alcoholic beverages and, of course, tobacco products. The fact is that the government of Mira Cerar is increasing excise duties and, on the other hand, revenue from excise duties in the Slovenian budget is decreasing. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the government of Mir Cerar should adapt the excise policy to the market prices our neighbouring countries have. Here I am thinking mainly of Austria and Croatia and Hungary, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we do not understand why the price of one litre of oil in neighbouring Austria today is almost 20 cents cheaper than in Slovenia. According to the latest available data in Borovja, we can pour one litre of oil today for 96 cents, representing almost 20 cents of the difference between what we can pour in Slovenia; and this in the 55 litre tank represents almost 10 Euros of difference. The same story is happening in the field of excise duties in the field of alcohol and tobacco products. This is why we appeal to the government of Mir Cerar, the Ministry of Finance and, above all, the coalition of the Modern Centre, Desus and Social Democrats, to change this tax policy, which is negative, especially because you impose additional burdens on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, burden the economy and, finally, reduce the inflows to the Slovenian budget by increasing excise duties. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that with a more appropriate excise policy, which would be adapted mainly to prices and excise duties in neighbouring countries, we could in some way relieve Slovenian citizens and citizens and make a policy that, like once when Austrian citizens, Italian citizens and Croatian citizens went to Slovenia and with purchases of oil derivatives, tobacco products and alcoholic beverages, they would fill the Slovenian budget. By filling the Slovenian budget, we would also help to maintain education, health care and unfortunately today because of the inadequate excise policy implemented by the Government of Mir Cerar, Slovenian citizens and citizens are forced to leave their money in neighbouring countries and to fill the budgets of Austria, Italy, Hungary and Croatia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you for saying so, Vice President. Dear Secretary, Your Honor! In view of the extensive revision of the Law on excise duty, it was necessary to provide for a completely new law. The complexity of the material required a few months of coordination, which is understandable. It is not possible to change the matter in such a way overnight, especially if a wider professional public is involved in the drafting of the bill. In the Desus Group, we welcome the revised provisions of the law, which will in the first place bring additional administrative simplifications and a clearer regulation for all stakeholders to whom the law applies. It is very commendable that we have finally properly regulated the status of a small beer producer in Slovenia. The latter will be followed by a person who produces up to a maximum of 20 000 hectolitres of beer annually, and for the beer produced, the small producer will pay 50% less than the general excise duty. In this way, the debtor will be able to exercise the right to lower excise duty in other Member States with comparable arrangements. In the Desus Group, we estimate that it is the task of the State to ensure that we are as competitive as possible in the tax area, not to further promote the production of an individual type of alcohol in this place, but because we believe that the key to the further successful development of the economy is in the hands of small producers. Slovenia has already proven that it has enormous potential for quality progress in a small economy. With the new regulation of the law, the possibility of better conditions will also be given to other small producers, for example in the case of the production of wine or brandykucha. We greatly appreciate the hard, honest work of every good crop and the efforts of the small producer. That is why we believe that the adoption of the law will help the debtors to slightly improve their business and financial situation and, above all, in the Desus Group, we are trying to ensure that the resulting satisfaction of these people will also have a positive impact on job creation. For these reasons, Members and Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of 13. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 79 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am also in favour of some of the innovations brought by this change in excise legislation, in particular here I am talking about certain facilitations for small brewers, and thus also somehow establishing the competitiveness of small brewers, in fact, in the end, I would say, or at least comparability with neighbouring countries, such as Austria or Italy. By no means – or I would say that it is typical in Slovenian legislation that we go from one extreme to another extreme. Or if I give a comparison, or if I give a concrete example, for small producers of burns. The existing regulation gave small producers the opportunity to burn that they are natural persons who annually produce up to 500 litres of spirit. Of course, this burning must not actually be sold, and for these 500 litres of production, excise duty was paid according to the size of the boiler, which was between EUR 12.5 and EUR 25. That's what you call a very minimal excise duty. If this spirit is not to be sold, then it is for one farmer to consume 500 liters a year, for me it is enormously large, in short, it was a generous, rich arrangement. But in this marriage, we go back to another extreme. Here we have now reduced this quantity to 150 litres, for which 50% of the excise duty is paid. But here I think we need to look at a solution that will actually bring more into the state budget. Now we've gone with 500 liters, I'd say, an untaxed amount of small producer per 150 liters, paying the excise duty. Why not increase this amount or the limit of the small combustion producer to the level they have in Austria and therefore obtain more resources in the state budget, as 50% of the excise duty is paid. This is a completely logical economy and it reduces the possibility – in fact, we give a wider range of producers a legalization, and in this way, I would say, we create a normal order for excise duties to normally be paid to all these farmers. Our proposal for an amendment is going in this direction to set a reasonable limit and thus give us the opportunity to include more producers in this range and, of course, gain more revenue in the state budget. That's the basic goal. I suggest we accept this amendment. However, it is taken from Austrian legislation, so that we are comparable to our northern neighbours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr Luka Moon, please; Article 79, amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Maybe I'll talk a little bit about the amendment first, then a little wider. Regarding the SDS amendment, I would say the following; this idea to increase the amount of pure alcohol you can produce on a farm with reduced excise duty is at first sight fine. It is equivalent to Austria, but in the United Left we note that complete mechanical transfer of solutions is not appropriate and could have negative effects. In fact, the first difference to be shown here is that the average Austrian farm is 20 hectares and the Slovenian farm is 6.6; it is said that it is three times smaller and now means that with an average of three times the size of the farm, we would have the same amount of pure alcohol that you can produce here. In this way, I would like to point out that this completely mechanical transfer is not appropriate because, for example, in Austria, there is a general discount of EUR 11 000 per year, with us the basic 3 000 200; but the Austrian salary is almost twice as high and the capital tax is 25%. If we were to raise the overall discount to €7,000, the budget would lose €480 million. A minimum wage worker would receive 6.41 euros and a member of the NLB administration, with 10,000 euros in wages and 154 euros. This will be discussed on Friday, but I am drawing this analogy to show that this mechanical transfer of solutions from another environment, which has different assumptions, does not produce necessarily good effects, so we will not support this proposal in the United Left. Besides, if I say just a few more things in general about this law. One thing is that I have already said in my position, namely that nothing can erase the fact that this law preserves an anti-socially oriented tax policy where we have substantially too much indirect taxes and, above all, not enough taxes on capital and property. With regard to concrete innovations in excise policy, we do not particularly agree with the increased taxation of cut tobacco and electronic cigarettes. For cutting tobacco, as I said in my position and as some experts have also warned, in Slovenia, for example, unlike Australia, we are not on the island position and are traveling through us a number of paths of such and different black market. Moreover, it is not difficult to bring these products in from any neighbouring country where cigarettes and tobacco products are significantly cheaper if prices increase. As far as cut tobacco is concerned, it's pretty clear. This is a product used primarily by poorer people as substitutes for classic cigarettes, and if prices increase, we will help to import tobacco products from other countries, particularly neighbouring Croatia, possibly Bosnia, Serbia, and to flourish the black market. Similarly, the situation in electronic cigarettes, where not only do we oppose these reasons, but we point out that the Government, in fact, has decided to align excise duties on e-cigarettes with conventional tobacco, has already adopted a way of treating these products as some type of tobacco products, although there are very different readings and ways of using them, or ways of interpreting them legally. In England, for example, the Ministry of Health treats e-cigarettes as a means of reducing and separating from smoking, we will obviously treat e-cigarettes as a tobacco product. I would point out, however, that many of the studies that have been carried out indicate that these cigarettes are significantly less harmful than normal cigarettes, that the only harmful substance in them is nicotine, but they do not contain hundreds of other carcinogenic substances containing classical cigarettes, and therefore we find such treatment completely reckless and particularly reckless. For these reasons, as I have already said, we cannot support the proposed changes, but we welcome the lower excise duty on small brewers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you very much. With regard to the proposed amendment to Article 79, I would like to clarify that in this article we are talking about the amount of pure alcohol that could be produced in the context or with the status of a small producer of spirits. This amount of 150 litres of pure alcohol actually amounts to approximately 60 litres of 40 % alcohol or 40 % alcohol. This limit has been set on the one hand by taking into account the specific situation in Slovenia and also by taking into account the health policy objectives by which we have coordinated several of the provisions of this Act. If we raised this limit of 150 litres to 400 liters of pure alcohol, that would mean 40 percent alcohol, if I calculated correctly, a thousand thousand gallons a year. These are essentially large quantities for small spirits producers, and our assessment is that the 150 litre limit is set appropriately, taking into account the various objectives set out in the proposal for a law. However, when I am still talking about the goals we are pursuing from the health field of this law, allow me to respond further to the allegations concerning tobacco. First of all, as regards fine-cut tobacco, the excise duty in this proposal does not increase in relation to the existing excise duty. Secondly, the excise duty on fine-cut tobacco has increased slightly in the past, so that the transition from already made cigarettes to the use of fine-cut tobacco for coiling, while at the same time essentially this excise duty, not excise duty on cigarettes, has been taken into account when determining the amount of excise duty on electronic cigarettes or alternative cigarettes, let's say, tobacco products. In our opinion, given the beginning of the development of this market in the area of Slovenia, it is also necessary to provide manufacturers or suppliers of such products with clear information on how these alternative tobacco products should be treated in our area. This is also what we have followed in this proposal of the law. However, I agree that there are different studies in the world. Some prove that electronic cigarettes are even more harmful than conventional tobacco products; others point to some different solutions. But at this point we are assessing that it is appropriate for these products to be treated in a comparable manner. And once again, the excise duty for them is not set at the level of excise duty on cigarettes, but excise duty on finely chopped tobacco. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u92	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The proposal that we have tabled will, of course, support, because it seems to me that we are adapting this excise policy mainly to competition, and these are neighbouring countries. Because I see these countries as competition after consumption. Last but not least, I am convinced that the Ministry of Labour's finance, I would say, is a totally flawed excise policy and that in some segments they may actually favour one of the suppliers or producers. Let us just remember how specific excise duty in the field of tobacco products has been adapted. Somehow one producer was favored. Here, of course, is my personal opinion, but I think that pricing policy clearly states that this is true. What my colleague Luka Mesec was saying, I don't think it has anything to do with some healthy farm smartness, with some logic to look at, I would say, the average size of Austrian farms and Slovenian farms. I think we should really follow a excise policy that would provide higher revenue to the budget. That should be the primary objective. The government of Mira Cerar and the excise coalition are increasing and thus, I would say, the revenue in the budget itself is decreasing from year to year. In fact, this burdens citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the economy. Finally, those who live closer to Austria, Italy, Croatia, Hungary, you go shopping in these neighbouring countries and actually fill their budget. Dear Secretary of State, since we have here today the Excise Law, I would like to know: What kind of excise policy will the Government of Mir Cerar be implementing in the field of petroleum derivatives, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products in the future? Will you still benefit from the increase in excise duties? When will you begin to think that the prices that the Government can design will be adjusted to the prices of neighbouring countries? See, in Borovija today we can pour a litre of oil for €0.96; in Slovenia it is 1.13 euros. This means about 0.20 about a litre of oil, and this in the 55 litre tank is almost €10. However, wages in Austria are significantly higher than in Slovenia. The same story is true of tobacco products, when tobacco products are, I would say that the minimum lower limit of three euros has been breached, in fact, by Austrian buyers who went for tobacco products in Slovenia, are no longer or are significantly reduced. This reduces the revenue to the budget, as it must be realized that the foreign citizen who came to Slovenia after these purchases has probably made some additional purchases. And this is where you have to look, distinguished secretary of state, wider. I therefore call on you once again to state here what policy in the field of excise duties will be pursued by the Government of Mir Cerar in the future. See, in Austria every child, regardless of the property situation, belongs a fixed amount in euros monthly, so-called Kindergeld, regardless of the property situation, as Luke Mesec then spoke of the average size of Austrian farms. Let us once be aware that excise policy should be one that allows for as much revenue as possible in the budget, not that you are burdening citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but the economy, in fact, is shrinking revenue from excise duties. I think it will be necessary to change, because if we listen to our colleague Luke Mesca there, how it is still being implemented in the field of oil derivatives and in view of the sympathy this coalition has for the most part until the former Yugoslavia, I do not rule out the introduction of petrol vouchers, as we once had – a couple of odd – and we are just burdening citizens and citizens and the economy. This limit of 20 cents of the difference in litres of oil compared to Austria I think is already worrying. And you have the opportunity, a well-established secretary of state every Monday to change the excise or every other Monday, to send a proposal to the government and to lower that price. I am sure that, over the medium term, this would allow for significantly higher revenues in the Slovenian budget. Instead of funding public health care in Austria to finance public education in Austria, Italy, Croatia, it would probably be more meaningful for these citizens to finance public health, public education in Slovenia. And tax policy, I think it can not only be regressive, but that it should also be progressed in certain matters. In addition to the example mentioned by his colleague Luka Mesec that he thought this number was too high for small producers of burning, as you, the distinguished secretary of state, mentioned, I think you should tell me, I don't know, 600 or 700 litres, and that you might convince any other small producer of burning from Austria that you would have, I don't know, orchards and everything in Slovenia and that you would pay taxes here in Slovenia. Today, however, the Austrians offer a lot of this, giving you, I don't know, an almost free plot, allowing you free kindergartens and everything just to get to them. However, under this rule of the left-wing government, I think that the interest is probably somewhere else, to make citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as poor as possible, this is the only way I see it, since there is no quarterly period in the year when the burden on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the economy is better. Look, Madam Secretary of State, almost a generation of Slovenians move abroad every year, about 15,000 people.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vranick Erman. Then Mr. Tink Lah. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. The topics that have now been opened far exceed the framework and substance of the debate on the Law on excise duties and the amendment to Article 79, but let me answer some of the questions raised. It is not true that excise revenue has been falling in recent years. In 2013, the realisation of the collected excise duties was a billion 490 million, in 2015 a billion 515. It's true. It's not a high promotion. For this year, we are planning even higher revenues and growth of these revenues in the first months, the first five months of this year with a stable excise policy, i.e. without changing the excise duty rate every 14 days, not every 14 days, but every 14 days, when determining the prices of oil derivatives on the market, those prices that are regulated show in essence that the existing excise policy provides stable public finances. All countries that have faced public financial challenges in recent years have also sought opportunities for additional resources in the field of excise products. It is essentially one of the areas where the increase does not affect or at least adversely affect economic growth or individual other elements, and certainly only excise policy cannot address all the issues raised compared to Austria. As regards the adaptation of excise policy to market conditions, the Government retains the same powers as it has under the existing law, not only as regards energy and electricity, but also as regards other excise products. We are closely monitoring the market situation and, if necessary, we will also respond. In view of the fact that we are proposing to adopt a bill that does not change excise duty rates or excise duty amounts, you can in fact understand that it is not in our interest or in our interest to increase these duties in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u95	Mr. Bell Lah, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. First of all, it's a shame that Mr. Luke Moon is not here. Apparently, the area of agriculture does not lie with him because the comparison of the size of our farms does not have anything to do with our amendment, because these 400 litres of alcohol could have come from a farmer there at half a hectare of orchards and it has nothing to do with 6.6 hectares or 20 hectares of farm. And also Madam Secretary of State, despite the fact that you are at the Ministry of Finance, mathematics is a bit of a nuisance. 150 liters of pure alcohol is 375 liters rather than 60 liters of 40 percent alcohol, 400 liters not a thousand 600, but a thousand liters of 40 percent alcohol. So far, he has paid a farmer for his own consumption of 500 litres of 100 % alcohol 25 euros of excise duty, which is certainly not comparable to Austria, and it is right to pay the excise duty. However, for 150 litres of pure alcohol it pays for new, up to 150 litres, 50 % excise duty, which is full and 400 litres in Austria. Now let's see; so far, he's paid 25 euros for 500 liters, that's what he paid for the boiler. Now he's going to pay up to 150 liters 50 percent, and he's going to pay over 150 liters full. You think people are stupid? The excise duty for 100 litres of pure alcohol is €320 and €5.6 per litre of 40 % alcohol. That's not a little money. And if we put those boundaries so low, the gray economy here will laufa more than cigarettes, believe me. But if it's not worth anything, because the price will be so high, because he's going to have to pay more than 150 liters of alcohol, and the Austrians are going to buy us fruit, and they're going to cook us alcohol, and the Austrians aren't going to pay us money. Because there are no excise duties and no export duties on apples and plums. Therefore, it is worth having the Austrians with us, buying vineyards, planting new ones, and nothing to the Slovenes. The vineyards are growing. As my colleague Pogačnik said, I feel that our government is just looking for the possibility that there is something else to do, something to create, how to extract some more money from it, a tax, no matter how many of these benefits come into the state budget or instead of encouraging people to create, to produce and pay taxes, we are doing the opposite – we are destroying. Like that bastard who said, poor thing, the more I despise you, the more you are. But all for the benefit of those who have nothing to do and receive almost 300 euros of social assistance per month from the State. The fact that excise duties are growing slightly. Why are they growing? Because we sold more petrol or sold oil or are they growing because they're growing excise duties? If more people pay lower taxes, I think more will come into the budget and when these people have more income, they will spend more, more will be taxed in time. The proverb already says that the first profit does not go into the scrotum, and the country should also be aware of it. What this government is doing is typical of what Mr Luka Mesca has learned about agriculture. Just how we get as much in the budget doesn't matter what the situation in the economy is. Like that politician who treated a cow — too bad she died — I had so many ideas! This is how this government behaves, and more than we say, see, the case, what the colleague said about fuels. [[…]] One Slovenian carrier gets a contract in neighbouring Austria and saves on several trucks that he owns, €16 000 per month. If he's got a couple of 10 trucks. It's a deal. Only on savings because the fuel is cheaper than ours. How much did the state of Austria get from this fuel, not 16 000 euros, maybe 160 or a few 100,000 euros that could come into our budget? No one's gonna figure that out. Ask all these carriers not to say that carriers from the former neighbouring republics who have such tanks on the truck can drive around Slovenia for a week and do unfair competition, create unfair competition for our carriers. And they don't tank anything at our place, they don't fuel it. We're not Australia or Canada, so you have to fill up the fuel 10 times to move the country, but vice versa; you have to take Slovenia 5 times, so you don't have to fill the fuel. If we're not aware of this, then it's a shame. That's why I don't think this amendment of ours is wrong, not at all, because I don't know where you've been until now, but if you can only pay EUR 25 per 500 litres of pure alcohol on that boiler. That's what I'd like to say. I was at a fair in Austria when I asked our boiler maker what kind of boilers the Austrians were buying. He said, a few years ago, 20, 25 liters – it is said, for domestic use – and now a few years ago, 60, 80 liters. Why? Because they cook more, they have certain discounts. We have now given discounts for small brewers, but on the other hand, we have shaken those who are engaged in brandy. The one who cooks some wine that can't be sold as wine, and then burns the cook, because we also have legislation there so that you can sell in stores, small vineyards, only bottles. We have a bunch of things that aren't there in the neighbouring countries. If you think we will serve by selling apples and grapes to Austria, then they will sell drinks for large money and wine from our grapes, then you are wrong. With us, the earth will grow because everyone will rather wait for social support than to do something for themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u97	Madam Secretary of State, Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm sorry, I really made a calculation error, and thank you for the correction. In fact, I would also like to warn you that we did not talk about 500 litres of pure alcohol in the regime of taxation of small producers of spirits, but about 500 liters of spirit. Therefore, the proposal for a new regulation and regulation so far is, however, more comparable than it wishes to show. As far as the boilers are concerned. This bill removes the specific log of boilers, both for manufacturers and users, so that there are no administrative obstacles any boiler should be obtained by anyone with regard to the cooking of the distillery. And also in relation to excise duty on energy products in Slovenia and Austria. We must not only compare here the prices or obligations to be settled in Slovenia for a litre of fuel, and what you get in essence at a local pump in Austria, we can also compare with the price of these same products on highways in Austria, where the price is inadequately higher than in Slovenia due to a higher margin – not because of the higher excise duty to avoid confusion – but we also forget one other fact. In Slovenia we also maintain and maintain this scheme of commercial diesel. This scheme means that all users of freight vehicles over 7 tonnes and a half of the total mass and buses or means of transport of persons over eight persons may apply the reimbursement of the excise duty paid and in this case only pay the minimum excise duty laid down in the European Regulation. Austria does not know such a scheme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Since I no longer have any reported debaters, I ask whether anyone else wants to discuss the article 79 and the amendment of the SDS Group. I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 92 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the sitting in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A SECURITY LAW IN THE FIELD IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government or to the representative of the Government, Mr Andre Špenga, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u100	President, thank you for your word. A nice greeting from the honourable Member, honourable Members! On the basis of the comments received in recent years by the professional interested public and its own findings in the analysis of the state of safety on skis in 2014, the Ministry of the Interior initiated activities to amend the current law, the Ski Safety Act. We wanted to ensure adequate safety on the ski slopes and, at the same time, to go against the economy, tourism, so that after the years when the skis were closed, they could be reopened. We know that a large number of children take their first ski steps right on small ski slopes and then continue skiing on large ski slopes. For that purpose, it was 28. 2. 2015 An interdepartmental working group was set up to prepare a proposal for a new Law on Ski Safety, which also included representatives of the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, the Police, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Infrastructure Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In addition to those mentioned in the preparation of the law at various stages, representatives of the professional interested public also participated, namely representatives of the Association of Slovenian Wielkers and the Chamber of Mountain Centres and representatives of the Ski Association of Slovenia. The draft law was 8. 6. 2015 published further on the National Portal of the Republic of Slovenia, on the E-Democracy website, where it was possible to comment on the draft law also to the other interested public. The draft was 16. 3. confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, 20. 4. It was dealt with on the Commission of the National Council of State. I can say that no comments have been made by the State Council, as by the public concerned, on the draft law on the Committee of the National Assembly on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. The Ministry of the Interior, together with the professional public, has for a long time found that certain solutions relating to the provision of ski safety are inadequate. We are witnessing the intensive development of skiing activities, both in content and scale. It was because we wanted to take into account the current regulatory arrangements that we were forced to prepare a new draft law. At the same time, the need to remove certain administrative obstacles to the granting of authorisations and licences to skiers has been demonstrated, to regulate the work of foreigners, who have not now been regulated, to ensure an effective rescue service on skis, to define and establish the conditions for the operation of small skis, to ensure effective control over the implementation of the law, to define the duties and measures of supervisors more clearly, to define safety and its importance on the ski slope and to re-organise criminal provisions. The proposed solutions address some of the shortcomings of the current Ski Safety Act, which have been demonstrated in its implementation in practice. The main guides in the drafting of the law were the provision of adequate safety on skis, the financial burden on ski operators, the removal of administrative barriers to the operation of small skis, the identification of so-called micro skis and the provision of effective control over the implementation of the law. The main solutions proposed by the law are therefore governed by the following areas: the definition of the conditions to which the areas intended for skiing, the regulation and operation of the ski resort, the rescue on the ski slope, the provision of safety and order on the ski slope, the duties of skiers and other skiers, the duties of ski operators and ski controllers, the sole responsibility of skiers, the supervision of those responsible and users, and the establishment of records necessary for the implementation of the law. The key innovations are therefore to highlight the skier’s self-responsibility, one of which has been laid down by one of the 10 applicable rules of the International Ski FIS Association. Finally, I would like to say that, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we propose that a third consideration of this law be held at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Janji Slug, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much. At its 20th meeting, on 4 May and 21st, on 1 June 2016, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposal for a Ski Safety Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Committee of the State Council for State Arrangements, the definition of the Ministry of the Interior to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the comments of the Ski Association of Slovenia, the comments and comments of the Association of Slovenian Wielkers and the Chamber of Mountain Centres, the comments and observations of the Association of Slovenian Wielkers and the Chamber of Mountain Centres on the letter of the Ski Association of Slovenia, the responses of the Ski Association of Slovenia to the comments and comments of the Association of Slovenian Wielkers and the Chamber of Mountain Centres, the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups, the comments of the Ski Association of Slovenia and the proposals for amendments of the Committee of the SDS. Mr Andrej Špenga, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, outlined in the introductory supplementary explanation the procedure for making amendments to the draft law. At the 20th meeting of the Committee, comments were made by the Ski Association of Slovenia, as a result the consideration of the bill was postponed, and a meeting was held with representatives of the local ministries and the Ski Association of Slovenia. As a result of this meeting, it was agreed that the conditions for professionals who teach skiing in an organized manner should be regulated by the Sports Act and that the proposed law should only include the definition of skiing teaching. The aim of the bill is to remedy some of the shortcomings of the existing law in the area of ensuring adequate safety, define the self-responsibility of the skier, the financial burden on ski operators, remove administrative obstacles to the operation of small skis, identify the so-called micro skis and establish more effective control over the implementation of the law. The bill also provides for a reduction in the number of supervisors according to the capacity of the ski resort, but with significant news that the number of rescue workers and supervisors can adapt to the actual number of skiers on the ski slope or the number of operating facilities. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the comments made in the written opinion were largely taken into account in the proposed amendments and further clarifications made by the proposer. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State said that the Commission supported the bill, at the same time expressing a few concerns which were explained in the debate at the Commission. The representative of the Ski Association highlighted the non-involvement of the interested professional public in the drafting of the bill, as he positively highlighted the introduction of the inclusion of the definition of ski instruction and pointed out the content of the operating permit of the ski resort, which should also include a safety plan which would include a number of ski controllers and rescue workers. In addition, it should be individualised on individual skis and contain the conditions for the implementation of individual training and competitions and the indication of the areas intended for this purpose on the ski resort. The president of the Association of Slovenian cableway operators also highlighted the non-involvement of the interested professional public and that their comments were not sufficiently taken into account. He highlighted the idea of a security plan. He considered that, in the event of a provision that ski operators could adjust the number of supervisors according to the actual number of participants on the ski slope, it was inconsistent, since this number was difficult to determine in the light of the proportionality principle. He expressed fear that the burden of responsibility would ultimately lie on ski operators and users. In the debate, opposition Members pointed out that they considered that the public concerned was not sufficiently involved in the debate, expressed their support for the comments of the Association of Slovenian Wielkers and the Chamber of Mountain Centres and submitted them as proposals for amendments to the Committee at the meeting. They expressed disagreement with the representative of the Ski Association of Slovenia that the proposed law should also regulate the organisation of skiing teaching, as this does not fall within the said framework in their view. They agreed that many different interests were intertwined in this area, which were very difficult to reconcile, but considered that all stakeholders were involved in the drafting of the proposal and in the end of the common agreement reached on important content. The State Secretary of Spain further explained all the dilemmas that had been raised and also explained that only a minimum number of supervisors had been established under the law, which means that there could be more of them on the ground. In accordance with the second paragraphs of Articles 130 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and voted on the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and adopted them, on the proposals for amendments to the SDS Committee and did not adopt them. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all the articles together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you, Lady Servant. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. For the United Left Group, Mr or Dr Matej T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! More than a thousand people are injured annually on Slovenian ski slopes. As can be seen from the police data, accidents are mostly responsible for situations, ignorance, inattentiveness, oblivion, inappropriate speed and skiing outside regulated lines. On the basis of such statistics, it is clear that we can take care of safety on skis mainly through effective prevention and awareness, on the one hand, as well as by appropriate supervision on the other. Statistics also show that there is much more to be done in the field of safety on the ski slopes, but given the debate on the home body, we almost hope that the new Ski Safety Act will have more negative than positive effects in practice. This time, too, the government decided to prepare the law without the cooperation of the professional public, even though the material stated that the law was harmonised. Of course, the committee turned out to be wrong. We received a lot of comments and serious warnings in the National Assembly, and the coalition used the already seen manoeuvre to do so – addressing the point by way of a bunch of comments made by explaining that it would take time to bring the proposal into line with the professional public. The Ministry then organised a meeting and the coalition responded with a single amendment to a great deal of comments and warnings. This amendment, of course, does not resolve any of the most serious concerns, for everyone else has been overheard. We have been drawing attention to such unacceptable practices of the government coalition in the United Left since the beginning of this mandate. The fact that the Government's functioning is undemocratic and non-transparent has also established a coalition by adopting recommendations to increase the level of transparency and democratic activity of the Government and ministries. Part of the recommendation was specifically about preventing professional and interested public participation in the preparation of regulations. But the fact that neither the government nor the ministry recommended the National Assembly is disregarded, the coalition is apparently still not disturbed. We have seen many similar examples in this mandate. The consequences of such action are clear; legislation adopted by ignoring warnings and suggestions by the profession has in practice more negative than positive consequences and even in the case of the Ski Safety Act. Looking at the solutions proposed, it is clear that there are many issues and concerns around them. A key solution to the proposal is the self-responsibility of skiers. The law thus provides for a specific chapter on the self-responsibility of skiers and thus aims to improve safety on skis. It sounds nice, but what if the proposal on the other hand reduces the number of ski controllers and removes the supervisors' authority to alert the ski operator to the irregularity or poor equipment of the ski resort and to the dangerous places on the ski slope and inform the inspection service? It is naive to expect that safety on skis will be improved only by the legalization of the responsible behaviour of skiers, even given the fact that the proposal strongly reduces the number of skiers that must be present. Currently, one controller is required for a 300-skier ski resort, and the new border rises to 500. At the same time, a new one is allowed to be a supervisor and also a lifeguard. The profession itself warns that the need for a greater presence of supervisors is already being demonstrated in practice and that there is no reduction in the presence of supervisors. But these comments and warnings have been heard. There are many similar conflicting claims and solutions in the proposal. Despite warnings from the professional public, the weakness coalition has not resolved, despite the lack of consistency with the professional public, the law will obviously be adopted. And with such irresponsible behaviour of the government and even the coalition, it is simply not possible to expect that the situation will improve in practice, that the number of accidents on the ski slopes will begin to decline and that more responsible behaviour of the skiers on the one hand and no more responsible behavior of the operators on the other. As stated in the United Left, we will not support the proposal for a safety law on ski slopes. The government and coalition are once again called for a more democratic and more transparent adoption of legislation, and ultimately it has committed itself to adopting the recommendations that we have proposed in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u105	The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The title of the law itself says that we are talking about safety on skis, so its basic purpose should be to provide all measures for the safety of skiers and other ski users. In Novi Slovenija we supported the proposal of the law on the home work body, as it brings some financial burdens to ski operators, removes administrative obstacles for small skis and removes from this framework the so-called micro ski resorts intended for their own use. Nevertheless, some questions remain open related to the number of supervisors and rescue workers on the ski resort, as also pointed out by the Slovenian Ski Association and the Association of Slovenian cable drivers. As the number of supervisors under the new law decreases, there remains a significant risk of worsening safety conditions on ski slopes. Now, let me remind you, the ski resort needs to have one controller up to 300 skiers capacity, and a new superintendent would be enough for 500 skiers. For example, if we imagine a ski resort in Kravec, which has more than 2,000 skiers a day, with only a minimum number of supervisors, the issue of successful and effective safety remains open. It is true that the law now specifies only their minimum number and that the number of supervisors and rescue workers can adapt to the actual number of skiers or the number of operating ski facilities, but it is also true that the Government places all responsibility on ski operators and their users. In Nova Slovenija, we are confident that only a small number of managers will decide on a larger number of supervisors, but if the minimum number of supervisors meet the legal requirements. I am talking only about the hypothetical increase in the number of supervisors, which will be left to the controller. Answers to these questions could be given by a safety plan of the ski resort adapted to the specificities of each ski resort, i.e. as a comprehensive document to ensure order and rescue on the ski slope. This document would actually be welcome, especially if we take into account the fact that skiing is also becoming more and more adrenalin sport, where speed is often considered. As a result, the number of accidents and damage to skiers is increasing, including the unsplitting of ski tracks and surfers. Since in Slovenia ski sport is one of the most massive sports industries – skiing is an indisputably Slovenian national sport – the Ski Association of Slovenia and the Association of Slovenian cable drivers should participate as an interested professional public from the beginning of the draft. Unfortunately, they were only more actively involved in the consideration of the proposal on the competent parent body and the only important solution adopted on their proposal is the inclusion of the definition of skiing teaching in the bill and the agreement that the remaining content on organised skiing instruction will be regulated in the Sports Act. Since both the Slovenian Ski Association and the Association of Slovenian Wi-Fi are the main players in the field of ski sports, it is not understandable that as experts in this field they were not invited to participate as early as 2014, when the draft of this law began. Given that the new Ski Safety Act brings some positive changes, we will support the bill in Novi Slovenija despite concerns about the insufficient number of supervisors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u107	Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u108	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! When this bill was considered on the working body, I was the first to point out that the most important stakeholders were not invited in time to participate constructively in the formation of this law, so the meeting was also suspended. I regret that this has happened and, on the other hand, I do not understand why such situations are taking place, because, last but not least, those who are most called upon to do so and literally live by being somehow released from this event. Nevertheless, we are aware in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that safe skis can mean our competitiveness. Despite the fact that the law is not the happiest, but still brings certain positive moments in providing safety on the ski slopes, we have decided to uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u109	Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u110	Hello! There have been quite a few controversy in the very examination of the Ski Safety Act, especially from the latter, which continues to be repeated, which is that, of course, the professional public and the lay public did not participate in the formation of the law itself. Of course, we have more and more aspects, differences, and views of when and how and how a person can participate. But the fact is, and unlike the rest of my predecessors, let me state that they were invited both. Thus, I am talking about two residential organisations, the Ski Association and, of course, the Ski Managers' Association, which could have participated on their own initiative, as much as they wanted. The publication on e-democracy is of course the same; both for organisations and citizens – in short all. What happened on the Committee on the Interior that the meeting was suspended was only because the presentation of the Ski Association was irrefutable in the direction that they could not cooperate. This is rather an exception to the rule that in such a situation we have proposed a suspension and gave a month of time for the ministry to be able to have an additional discussion. This time, of course, brought only by getting what they wanted on the ski link – ensuring that they will exercise their interests in the Sports Act. One side, the other side, was satisfied with this. But the fact is, not all of them can achieve 100% interest, because in this case it is best to write the law themselves and just deliver it to us in the National Assembly. And then we don't even need the government. In the SMC Group we welcome such a law and we are convinced that it mainly brings a huge removal of administrative obstacles, removes them, and at the same time brings some freshness mainly from rigidity and cheapness, given that the costs on the ski slopes are, in fact, a small country with few ski slopes and we cannot compare ourselves with those megalomaniac skis in other countries, which can in some way be comparable. Which, of course, does not mean reducing the quality and safety of the ski resort itself. This, of course, has led us to support the proposal on the Committee and we will also support the law with certain amendments today. In the discussion below, we will define ourselves to individual amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Your Honor! Before I go to the proposal for a ski safety law, I would like to remind the coalition MPs and Members of Parliament of the first sentence of the coalition agreement, I quote: "The basic starting point and at the same time the principle of the functioning of this government is responsible, constructively, interconnectively and transparently addressing social problems." End of quote. The chronology of the developments around the proposed Ski Safety Act is, unfortunately, another sad evidence of this government's ignorant attitude even towards their own coalition contract; contracts that are supposed to represent an obligation to citizens. In fact, the preparation and procedure for the adoption of the Government's draft Ski Safety Act is a school case of how laws should not be adopted. According to the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Andrej Špenga joined the drafting of the law in 2014. I stress, in 2014. The government confirmed it at the beginning of March this year, almost two years later. The competent ministry had so much time to draw up a good proposal, which would also be in line with the professional and interested public. The law should be dealt with in early May by the competent Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. It was only then that the coalition realized that the proposal that had been made since 2014 was inappropriate and received numerous comments from both the professional public and the legal and legislative services. The consideration of the law was postponed for a month, but the proposal for a law was practically stuck when the so-called coordination discussion with the professional public took place. In view of the fact that the Government did not take into account any material concern or comment, it was obviously purely an artistic impression. In early June, representatives of the Slovenian Ski Association as well as representatives of the Association of Slovenian Wi-Fi and the Chamber of Mountain Centres – Slovenian cable drivers on the Committee on the Interior and Public Administration reiterated that the proposal for a law was flawed, that individual solutions were weak and expressed disappointment at the failure to respect their concrete proposals. Among other things, they highlighted the shortcomings of the security plan, which would substantially add an important segment to this law. In the SDS, we have already proposed amendments to the above-mentioned committee following the proposals of the Association of Slovenian Wielkers and the Chamber of Mountain Centres, but they have all been rejected in order. If anything, then Slovenians are definitely a skiing nation; from recreational to superior. Skiing represents an important value for Slovenes and Slovenes, through which we demonstrate a strong national identity. It would therefore be even more important for a coalition to cooperate more effectively with the professional public, who is a key participant in the implementation of the law, in amending legislation such as the Ski Protection Act. There is yet another opportunity for the coalition to listen to the interested professional public and support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which are substantively summarised. It is high time, in the coalition, that you realize that your numerical assistance is not intended to cultivate self-sufficiency, but it brings and means your full responsibility; responsibility to each individual, responsibility to different social groups, responsibility to economic operators, responsibility to your coalition agreement and not least to the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u113	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Members and others present! We have before us the proposal for a law on safety on skis, whose essential innovations relate to the responsibility of the skier for safety, ensuring adequate safety on skis, financial burdens on ski operators and the removal of administrative obstacles to the operation of small skis. The proposal redefines, inter alia, the areas of safety and rescue, the duties of ski users, ski operators and ski controllers in providing safety on skis, as well as the powers of inspection authorities and police. In the Desus Group, we welcome the decision of the Ministry of the Interior to proceed with the drafting of a law as a working draft of the draft Law on Skiing Safety on 8 July. 6. 2015 for a month published on the national portal of the Republic of Slovenia, on the E-democracy website. In writing, the Ministry specifically informed some representatives of the interested professional public about the draft law, not, for example, the Ski Association of Slovenia, which prompted a complication on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, which we have heard about today. We are pleased, however, that the meeting of the Ministry of the Interior with the Slovenian Ski Association on the draft law took place at the time of the legislative process in the National Assembly. Among other things, it was agreed at that meeting that the proposal of the Skiing Association of Slovenia on the system regime for teaching skiing should be regulated in the new Sports Act, whereas the time limit for teaching skiing is also defined in the proposal of the Ski Safety Act. An important novelty of the proposed Ski Safety Act is also that the number of rescue workers and ski controllers can be adapted according to the actual number of skiers on the ski slope and, among other things, introduces less favourable conditions for authorisation to operate a smaller ski resort, as it has in practice been shown that small skis have been difficult to cover or even stopped operating, and that unfortunately some jobs connected to seasonal work have been abolished. This proposal removes this problem and, most importantly, will be able to reopen all the small ski resorts that are closed in Slovenia today. By such an approach, we can revive activity on these ski slopes. Since the Ministry of the Interior, with all the above advantages for Members and also for the public, ensures that this law will achieve a higher level of safety in Slovenian ski resorts, safer use of skis, more responsible conduct of all ski operators and more effective control over the implementation of the provisions of the law, the Desus Group will support the proposed Ski Safety Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u115	The last position, namely the position of the Group of Social Democrats, will be presented by Mrs Marija Bacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! During the years of implementation of the Ski Safety Act since 2003, which regulates the basic rules for the use of skis for the purpose of ensuring safety and order on skis, the regulation and operation of skis, the rescue of skis, the obligations of operators and responsible behaviour of skiers and skiers and other persons, there have been changes in the field of operation and management of skis as well as skiing techniques and both segments have certainly affected the safety of ski users themselves. However, this is not to be overlooked by the fact that ski users also need to take care of their safety and the safety of other participants. Marriage solutions were also made in this direction. We therefore agree with all those who are and who are still alerting to the problems and who are looking for solutions to improve the situation in this area. In the presentation of the position, she would point out the solutions governing: firstly – the status of small and micro skis and the conditions for obtaining the name of a small ski resort, with the operator being given milder operating conditions; secondly – the provision of an effective rescue service on ski slopes; thirdly – the duties of the ski supervisor and more effective control over the implementation of the law and the fourth time – the work of foreigners. The proposal goes also towards financial burdens for ski operators, reducing the administrative burdens of the ski operator and the operator in ensuring safety. At the same time, however, we wish that today's solutions will not be a reason to reduce the safety and increase of recorded accidents on the ski slopes. I would also highlight the emphasis on the responsibility of the skier in all activities on the ski slopes. In the event of ski accidents, the responsibility of the skier and the ski operator is also stressed. Not to be overlooked is some communication noise or misunderstanding in regulating the field of skiing teaching. This area will be regulated by guarantees in the Sports Act, so all actors, including the competent ministry, the Ski Association, the Association of Wi-Fi and the Chamber of Mountain Centres, are already being called upon to coordinate. For we believe that coordinated legal solutions benefit everyone. Of course, we hope, however, that the remaining solutions in the proposed Sports Act will also be as coordinated as possible. Social Democrats will support and expect the proposal for a law on safety on skis in the text, as drafted on the home body, and will also be supported by the majority of MEPs and Members. We can also say that all operators have enough time to prepare properly for the winter season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Before I go completely to the amendment, it is also right to point out the individual words spoken that were mentioned in the opinions about the fact that the public concerned has nevertheless been harmonising. This coordination was after this law was already on the agenda, but then you pulled it away because it was too much pressure. However, that no progress has literally been made, the statement made by the representative of the Ski Association of Slovenia, namely, it is a public sermon, also shows in the magnetogram that they were invited to the talks when the law was practically written and concluded. That is why it was then re-examined; therefore, those key things were not taken into account. One of these issues is surely Article 1, which may not in itself indicate a major correction, but is an important change in the word self - responsible with responsible conduct. The fact is that he is a proponent, this is the Government, or he wanted to sum up some phrase that is the term from a ski dictionary, but it means something else. It means something else, and so the so-called professional public has also been warned. In fact, self-responsibility is not the same as responsibility. Self - responsibility is primarily that you are responsible for yourself, while responsibility as such is much broader. Surely this amendment would make sense to take into account and I think that even in this way, in the coalition, you could show that you are ready to hear those who actually apply this law in their work and know the previous one and also know what a single change can bring or take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u119	Mr Jani Möderndorfer wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Chairman. We have interesting material ahead of us, especially because we actually have a bunch of amendments tabled by the SDS, but she didn't even try so hard to at least break them down and make them compatible with each other, but she simply copied them from the Ski Association and suggested to this assembly that she treat them and accept them. If a colleague were so fair and so honest and were to take it seriously, I would see that even the amendments they have written — now I am talking about the officials, this is the SDS — simply exclude each other and that is why they are not acceptable. It is, however, a fact that these amendments have also been explained more or less on the committee, and we will then see later in that there are quite a few amendments that actually want to be written in a matter, which is not a matter of marriage, but a matter of law. Last but not least, I cannot imagine, if we wanted to, for example, after the law had entered into force, when it had already entered into force and we would, say, two years later, find that a certain part would be valid, at least in terms of security – I don't know why we should change the whole law, but if we can regulate it by means of sub-laws. The other thing that seems very important to me is this vehement repetition, that's how they like to do it in the SDS, they probably have a bonded coalition contract on their nightstand, and they dream of where else to find something else in this coalition contract. Now, of course, I will tell my colleague what I had to answer to one other member of the opposition at one of the previous meetings. Look, the coalition contract isn't meant for you. It's true that it's a public document, but it's because the coalition has decided that way, but it's primarily for coalition partners, so, look, my colleague, I don't care what you say about the coalition contract because nothing moves me. But it would bother me if I was warned by a coalition partner. The other thing that still seems important to me is, above all, this impression that it wants to create, who really was invited to participate in this, to prepare this law. Look, it's never right. If the government makes the law too quickly and if it goes through all the procedures quickly, it's non-transparency, they'd say in the United Left, unbroken, no one was there and so on. If matter has been produced slowly, which seems right and wrong to me, and what if, since 2014, the law has been in preparation and published in 2015 and later on in the Government in March – in short, I do not see anything bad here. Moreover, I am sure that because we had a lot of time, we were able to examine, comb, talk, and exchange our views and views as well. The ski link and the Association of Administrators are two main topics that are a red thread in this law. Whose law is this? Not from the controllers and not from the Ski Association. This law is primarily intended for safety skis in the Republic of Slovenia and all those who use this ski resort either because they bought a map or because they manage it, because events, events or anything else that the law allows allow with certain exceptions. The practice is that when there is a law, where someone even cuts bread in this area, of course, he has a very strong interest in bringing into the law certain interests that he might actually have to deal with later. On the one hand, cable drivers have a problem because there have been administrative obstacles to the number of skis that we have in the Republic of Slovenia, mainly because they are mostly due to the recent years, because the lack of snow, because of the shorter ski seasons, and also because the costs of operating on technology and the difficulties that have gone on in the 21st century are becoming increasingly difficult. Finally, skiers are increasingly bolder, faster, if we remember skiing 20, 30 years ago or today, when we have carving skis at least once faster on skis, it is clear that safety needs to be taken care of; and it costs. And we're talking about jobs, we're talking about salaries, we're talking about costs borne by cable operators. And on the other hand, on the other hand, who cut their bread, the Skiing Association, which conducts ski courses, schools and everything else, and wanted to bring only one, and this is a ski teacher — you know why it was such a strong desire. This was one of the main reasons and, in fact, a stumbling block, when neither one nor the other — in fact, they were opposed to other factors, nor will I explain, but I will gladly comment on individual amendments, if necessary — to leave my mark and primate in this law. This led to this huge conflict when the law was practically adopted in the government and went into normal procedure through the National Assembly, that the Ski Association came with the idea that they were not involved. Once again, I have to repeat very simply, every interested expert or organisation or interested public when a law is passed which it thinks must be co-operated already in order to exercise its interests, it is right that when the law is published to come along. Last but not least, we have the word of Secretary of State of Spain who says they've been invited. Now I don't know if we're going to say that the Secretary of State is lying or making it up - I don't know, you have to say this now, but I believe him personally. There are probably certain documents on the call itself after the cooperation. It is also true that this cooperation is imagined in its own way. When you invite someone to share in the marriage, it tells you what he wants to make changes, which does not mean that these changes will also be enforced in marriage. This will be decided by the competent ministry or the bill-maker, because it must already look at the broader spectrum, because of its tasks and obligations, and in particular at some sense, which is also required by some legal and functional nomotechnician and to carry out this operation of the law. Well, if we go to look at this last letter from the Director of the Ski Association, where in the last paragraph you all got it and you know it and probably have it in your materials, because it was addressed to virtually all members of the Committee on Internal Affairs, but probably went through the GP office and is accessible to everyone else where it writes about the proposal for a safety ski law and in the last paragraph very clearly says only one thing. "In view of the above," in this letter – to shorten – of course, it writes about how they were not actually present and have a bunch of proposals and solutions for the above-mentioned law, they say: "In view of the above, we would ask that the Slovenian Ski Association of Slovenia be involved as soon as possible in the continuation of the law or that the proposal of the law should be returned to a level where the ski profession can improve it to this extent." As the law improves, here we again have our own perception and look at it. I mentioned earlier that you're just making your proposals, trying to convince the applicant with some arguments, if that doesn't work out, the case is closed. This does not mean that the applicant has to include all the proposals in order to satisfy one of the organisations concerned. Because if you ask the administrators of cableways or skis, you will see that they have diametrically opposite suggestions from the Skiing Association. Whom should I enforce? I always end up saying this: when I pick up a gold environment, I ensure security and professionalism to the extent that is also comparable to European skis and safety in similar areas, and if no one is ever too satisfied, I have hit and I am on the right track that the law is okay. For when everyone is too satisfied with the law, I always begin to worry about what is written in this law. That's what practice always shows in the end. In the end, let me put it another way. I'm sure it's a good marriage, a good one. But it is true that with the individual amendments that are required, I will say, let me give you an example, you will see below – let's say who doesn't want to have a security plan. That sounds very nice; in the final stage, why not. All of us would like to have a similar plan to tell us in some critical situations how to deal with or how to deal with everything, anything else comes first, and let us take care of security. Look, the fact is that the law is already very clear – the one we have before us – it already speaks very clearly about all the security elements that must happen so that we can be safe. Why isn't there such a security plan in the law? Finally, each administrator can have his own plan for the protection of the ski area already prepared and, last but not least, they have it, but he can complete it with his own – but he will have to follow all the new guidelines and regulations that the law will govern. This reflection on who has ruled out someone, whether the law is good or not, I am sure that it is certainly better than what we had today, and more importantly, it is the one who provides us with the basic parameters to make every skier and, of course, even the operators feel safe today. In the end, let me just say one thing. I am sure that when the law is passed, of course, it will also overtake all of us now known ski resorts; those who operate, and those who do not operate. In fact, we need to know that there are several skis, mainly about small skis, do not operate today and will probably also give this law the possibility that some ski resorts can return to operation and operation also because it will in some way require less of these costs, which today is an obstacle rather than just an option. I will be included in the individual amendments below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Vice President! When we talk about this law today, we are talking about important economic hardships or the preservation of small ski resorts. Indeed, there is a free economic initiative in our Constitution and it can only be limited to a limit when it could interfere with the public benefit. Here we see that very great progress has been made, and the fact is that partial interests within this public interest cannot be taken into account and no one can exploit them. These important aspects that have been adopted by law and the burdens in fact mean that administrative obstacles to the granting of authorisations and ID cards to skiers are being very burdened by ski operators, as I said before, small skis – if we are aware, there are more than half of the ski slopes in Slovenia that have so far been unable to function due to the high costs and burdens. I would like to reiterate that this is a very important economic stimulus. On large skis, the number of supervisors and paramedics is indeed decreasing, but the conditions must be met here, that this is a significantly reduced visit on the ski slope itself and that this person is qualified both for supervision and rescue. As far as the security plan is concerned, it is also a burden, because now this will be regulated in the plan for protection and rescue and there is no need for duplication, we always say how much red tape is, how much administration is, and this undoubtedly represents one of the red tape. Undoubtedly, the very responsibility is the one that is needed especially when it comes to sports. We know that sport as such is defined as a dangerous activity and, of course, everyone must take care of himself and take care of the one on the ski resort itself. So the law defines respect for yourself as well as for others. However, I cannot agree that we take concepts from some purely different or general concepts of what is the responsibility itself, as lawyers know that the law and the law clearly define what is the responsibility itself. Especially when we are talking about sports and dangers that can happen in skiing, and we – I think – are very, very familiar with these rules that are set. The point is that someone has to stop in time to adjust his driving and speed in a way that he can protect himself and others in time to adapt to his knowledge, field, snow, weather conditions and the density of skiing. So I think that these are the provisions that we know and should be respected, even if they are not enshrined in the law. Thus, the general concept at the moment is defined in the law itself, it has become a legal concept. However, as regards respect for the public concerned, I propose that those who have opposed this process so much as it has taken place take a look at the Resolution on Regulatory Activities, which has a chapter on guidelines; that is, how should the interested and professional public cooperate, which states that this debate should run from 30 to 60 days in order to publish the material in a way that can be made known to the general public, and that the call for cooperation must be drawn up in a way that invites those working in this area. So, if we look at the Slovenian Skiing Association, it is not dealing with safety on the ski slope, it has nothing to do with it, of course it has all the credit for its activities, and not for what this law governs. One more thing. All those who say that they have not been invited – the public concerned – would like to ask you how to say that someone should know that the public is interested if, within the time limit set, they do not announce their comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u123	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much. And with regard to responsibility, self-responsibility. I think that the difference and that the responsibility is certainly a broader concept and that we all know what is going on on the ski slopes, along with them, on so-called cableways and other devices, so that I think this concept would be more appropriate. With regard to the legal concept, as you say, which then applies, just look at the problems caused by indefinition in individual laws and different aspects of marital matter. Now that you are talking about resolving administrative matters, then you will surely support the amendment to Article 27, which just deletes some double records. These are administrative obstacles that take time. Mr Möderndorfer mentioned earlier that you should be honest and say that these amendments are a summary. I said that clearly and unequivocally in my position. It would be sincere or dishonest to say that these are amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the fruit of our work. No, it has been stressed that we have summed up what the professional public had to say, and we think this is right; and more is needed. I must also respond to the so-called teaching of a fellow Member, given what the coalition treaty is, to whom it is intended and so on. In the coalition contract you have also committed yourself to citizens, in the coalition contract you speak in relation to citizens, to individual groups. So it's not just your relationship, because if it's just a coalition relationship, then we shouldn't write it. So when it suits someone, he says it's a commitment to the citizens, but when it suits someone, he says, hands off, that's our business, and it's on us how we do it. But it is up to us to draw attention to what has been signed and publicly presented. It has also been repeatedly emphasized that individuals have had the opportunity to stress again, look at the magnetogram – I do not know who is lying. [[…]] Although I have this record with me right now, we don't have another one. And if it were true that all these coordinations were, why did you withdraw the law a month ago from the agenda — precisely because of comments, if all the coordination had been before, then you would have gone ahead with the law then you did not go. So you felt this manna, that there was not everything, as it might or may not have been heard by those who should have been heard. It is true that this law is intended for various actors, but surely the professional public, or those who now apply the existing law, and those who get to know themselves professionally, are called upon to express their views. And I do not agree with you that they should then write their marriage, and they can do so, because you probably know this because you are a Member much longer than I am. Citizens can also do so and prepare their own law and put it into practice if the government does not. One such, the collection of signatures takes place at this exact time. In short, it has been said earlier that there have been some inconsistencies in the amendments, even the arrangements for teaching skiing and so on are mentioned. That's not in the amendments. There is no teaching in the amendments. In the amendments, however, there is a proposal for individual solutions on expression, which is important in this because it changes the meaning, and there is more about the so-called security plan, which defines and should define a number of things. It was also clear why the security plan and why it should be adopted in this way; of course, in cooperation with the Ministry, the ministry would be that. The fact is that no ski resort in this country can be evenled out and it is therefore right that the safety plan and all these plans be made individually. This is more important because, no matter how long the line is, you can be completely different. In short, I think that there are 7 amendments and in each of them there is practically a reference to the so-called security plan, which is that fundamental flaw, in our opinion and, of course, the opinion of the professional public, which is not now implemented, as it should be. As it is said, the last one is the one who helps to remove administrative obstacles, as previously said. Well, I'm sure you'll support at least that if you stand by your own words.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman. I suggest you, colleague, not to explain my feelings or our feelings, because you can't relive them because we're the only ones who've relived them. But if you have any special abilities, try to implement them somewhere else, not in here. Above all, in that part, I am trying to tell you how we have experienced something, why we have interrupted or proposed the suspension of the committee meeting, and I will repeat again Slovenian, slowly and I hope that it is understandable, but I believe that you do not really understand me. Of course that's different, but I'll leave it to you. But I can be wrong, and I allow it. You know, let's be clear again, the Ski Safety Act has nothing to do with a ski link that doesn't carry out safety on skis. It is, however, a fact that when we talk about skiing and when we talk about skiing, it is only logical that those who are skiing and even professionally engaged in it, of course, would also like to say something in this area and propose certain solutions and were not excluded from it. All citizens can make proposals, not just the Ski Association or ski operators, but everyone can make proposals. And then, of course, this kind of precedent happened. Representatives of the government gave their opinions and views to the committee, said the opposition, and in the coalition we decided — if you listened to me correctly — I said in the introduction that we had made an exception before, exceptionally as a rule, in order to dissuade these doubts, whether anyone could have participated in it or not. So that we do not get the wrong idea without any feeling that something has gone wrong, because if something went wrong, then we would also have a legal basis for protesting and carrying out a different procedure or termination, or for direct violation of the rules of procedure. And he wasn't there. Of course you want to make an impression like I don't know what was going on and so on. But the fact is, I will say very domestically, the Skiing Association only wanted one thing — what it had before in marriage, now it is gone and, exceptionally, received years ago, and some were very ill-willed and angry because it was in marriage. But we all know that this issue that the Ski Association wanted to settle will be settled and now we have assurances. Finally, they sat together and also talked with the Ministry of Education on the coming Sport Act, where, of course, this main interest will be established. All the other suggestions – you know how it is, someone who has made proposals, can't say now, I've been making a little joke, I'm not leaving, I'm withdrawing all the suggestions. So don't create information. Second. I wonder what you'd say if there wasn't a coalition agreement. I would certainly say once again that we are arrogant that we are not having a relationship; in short, we would repeat all the mantra that you keep repeating because you do not care about whether the coalition treaty is or not; we are not good for you and we are not doing it because you have other political interests, especially another concept that is known to everyone and, of course, is not acceptable to you right now in this mandate. Unacceptable mainly because you did not get enough votes to form a government. So let the government take its concept. But you have every right to continue to warn and oppose, and you do it legitimately, and no one is obvious to you, but not to create an impression, as if it were illegal or any other procedure. As for terminology, you know, because we know who's on the ski slope: skiers, skiers, and what kind of deer runs through – in a joke. Yeah. Okay. And if everyone were self-responsible, there would be significantly less trouble. Of course, the concept of responsibility is a different dimension and broader. However, I will not even discuss this any more, we have expressed our views, so I believe that this proposal will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u127	Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u128	Of course! You're right. It wasn't about feelings. It was about facts. In fact, you've removed the marriage, and you're going to do whatever you want. But if it is true that you said that you were completely satisfied with him and that you had no doubts, then you acted even more irresponsibly and unfairly toward those who then sat together. Because you knew you wouldn't accept any of this. So much for your honesty as you told me before! And beyond, when we talk about self-responsibility and responsibility. Of course, self-responsibility speaks primarily of responsibility for itself. On the ski slope, however, I think that responsibility is also largely directed towards the responsibility of others. Our equipment also depends on the responsibility of others. But let's just leave it. You are back on this subject again, what benefits someone, what almost the right has in some way to participate in the preparation of the law, czech, the Ski Association of Slovenia is only one of the users of this law. It's all right! But they are a professional public, an interested professional public. But in doing so you are very skillfully launching the Association of cable drivers of Slovenia, which are those who must be very well aware of the ski resort, which are constantly present, which this law still concerns. And most of the amendments are from this relationship. Of course, it is your decision whether to listen to it or not that is perfect. I've already said that. I just pointed out that it would still be in these things to consider whether it would be wise to support any of the amendments. Earlier, your colleague said well that things are regulated by the law in some segments as well as administrative barriers. We welcome that. But there are still some left, and if you really want to do this, then at least those amendments will be supported. But when you talk about how many percent the Slovenian Democratic Party has received and that our problem is because we have received too few percent. Come on, fellow Member! The Slovenian Democratic Party has been on the scene for years. Take care of yours. I think you've got bigger problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u129	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Don't worry, I don't even deal with you. I just let you know that this term isn't your time. Just that, nothing else. What are you guys doing? I don't give a shit, and I don't even care. That's all I have to do; I just have to say it over and over again, as long as you repeat nonsense. No one interrupted the board meeting because he was being misled or had the feeling that nothing would happen. That's not true! Don't say words. The ski trip has come to an end! She found that what she wanted to enter into this law she had agreed that this would be recognized in the Sports Act. And there's been a change and no talking. And they personally thanked me for what happened. Okay? So if you don't have that feeling, I'm happy, I have that feeling. But everything else is infertile. I think we've already processed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u131	Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u132	Once again, fellow Members, you only deal with one of the interested public! You forget the cablemen, and you teach them purposefully, and then you teach them everything we can, and what we can't do, and who we want to do the coalition contract and who we don't have. You are right at the final stage, whether it is or not, to see what you have accomplished so far, and you will understand that it is really a waste of paper and time to deal with it. But this is about important things. It's about safety on the ski slope. The cablemen are talking and warning about the safety plan, and you don't want to hear it. That's the main problem. And that's followed by the amendments. I'm glad the individuals thanked you, but it would probably be better to listen to them better on the board. There you even made a procedural proposal to literally stop their implementation of positions, go see if they talk too much, even though they talked about the state of the Slovenian ski resorts or safety. So much for that. It's a shame we're probably dealing with this stuff because you're going, like always, with your head through the wall, and that's the self-sufficiency I was talking about. But at the end of the day, it always costs what it prefers to grow further. Of course he doesn't know your feelings. Surely, not because we are so different that we hardly know them — and I do not want to share them with you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u133	Mr Andrej Špenga, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, wishes to speak. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I would like to respond briefly to the comments, the concerns raised in today's debate, both in the presentation of the opinions of the Members of Parliament, the groups of Members, and in the presentation of the opinions or views of individual Members and Members. In particular, due to responsible, constructive and transparent action, which I am well aware of, I have participated in these meetings since the beginning of my function since the beginning of the law, in 2014, to date, and have also participated in the Interdepartmental Working Group many times. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert mentioned that at the last minute the Ski Association of Slovenia was included, but that we forget about the Association of Slovenian cable drivers. Your Honor, this will not hold. Why not? The Slovenian Wire Association, i.e. GIZ, Slovenian mountain centres, i.e. GZS, regularly participates in the Ministry of the Interior every year before the ski season and the post ski season. And every year after the ski season, we also do a comprehensive analysis of the condition on the ski slopes, and analyze the damage on the ski slopes. On the basis of their long-standing proposals, we have taken the initiative to go to the Government's normative programme to amend the Ski Safety Act, because this was also the proposal of the Ski Associations, the Association of Slovenian Wierkers and the Chamber of Mountain Centers and other interested public who informed us about this. Before the opening of this law, we carried out a comprehensive SWOT analysis of the situation and in 2014 a survey was also carried out between ski operators and we have barely opened the law on the basis of these analyses. Immediately after the opening of this law, i.e. at the beginning of 2015, the first Interdepartmental Working Group was invited to attend the meeting by those who made comments. This was the Association of Slovenian Wi-Fi and the Chamber of Mountain Centres. The next meeting was held at 13. 2. 2015 and therefore these perceptions that we did not act transparently cannot be accepted. I am pleased, however, that since the month of June, when the law was also published in E-democracy and we have not received any additional comments from the interested public, not the Ski Association of Slovenia. These comments were made by the Ski Association, as you know, two or three days before the Committee's hearing at the National Assembly on Home Affairs. Although they were last-minute, I must say that I was pleased with the proposal made by Commissioner Möderndorfer that this meeting should be suspended and that an additional round of coordination should also be made with the Ski Association of Slovenia. These coordinations have been carried out. Why hasn't the Ski Association responded before? This interest has not been demonstrated despite the public announcement on E-democracy. I don't know, but, as you know, the law regulates the safety on the ski slope and not the content on the ski slopes that are being implemented. So, in the previous law, it was defined the term relating to the Ski Association of Slovenia with regard to licensing. Since the latter is no longer available, the Ski Association was not involved in the preparation, since the latter will be regulated in the Sports Act. The latter was also defined at a meeting whose record you have on 18 pages, which took place 11. 5. At the Ministry of the Interior, where representatives, State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Education and Sport were also present. This minutes of the meeting were also confirmed by the President of the Ski Association of Slovenia to agree with the content meeting, this content has also been verified by e-mail, and wrote that it agrees with the content and agrees that this is regulated systematically for all sports in the Sport Act. With regard to self-responsible and responsible conduct and concept. The concept of self-responsibility is defined in the Ski Safety Act and it is not a single concept, but it defines the law. It is defined in Article 2, Article 17, paragraph 2, "self-responsibility means the conduct of the skier and others on the ski slope in accordance with the provisions of this Act". With regard to the change of this concept, consideration was also given on the Committee, and before we began to coordinate other things, we also came to a joint conclusion with representatives of the Slovenian Ski Association at the 11th meeting. 5. However, it was found that the definition was regulated in the official ski dictionary. I have a copy of this official ski dictionary, so we have arranged this concept and it is defined – at the beginning there were dilemmas, whether it was self-responsible or responsible, that the concept was not defined. The term is defined in the ski dictionary and says, "self-responsible, to ski by following the rules on responsible skiers that prescribe skiing from the point of view of the safety of the individual and the participant". End of quote. So, precisely because of this, the entire chronology that we have written here on more than two pages, which has taken place since the annual presentation of the analyses of the Association of Slovenian cable drivers, the Chamber of Mountain Rescuers, also in 2014, the SWOT analyses carried out, conducted before the opening of the law or before the formation of the working group, have again invited both of them to the presentation of their views – I think we have acted extremely responsibly, constructively and transparently. There is also a question of teaching skiing. It was also agreed that, in the form of an amendment, skiing should be defined as a term in the Ski Safety Act. And now it's defined in Article 13, paragraph 2, which says what skiing is. It includes the application of the teaching substance on the ski slope, exercise and competition as a test of knowledge. As to what is defined as micro, small skis, how the number of supervisors and rescue workers was defined, there were quite a few speeches. Micro ski slopes are the areas on which a tow is placed, for which no licence is required for the installation of tractors in accordance with the law governing cable devices, i.e. for the transport of persons, and neither is it intended for gainful activities. This provision therefore excludes all areas where tractors are placed for so-called own use so that they are not intended for commercial use and do not charge tickets for them. We have some such tractors on these skis, that is, micro skis, and several ski lanes are placed on individual tractors. However, safety must also be ensured on these micro skis, which is the responsibility of the operator, these are usually tourist huts, accommodation capacity and other tourist farms which have such tractors. Therefore, the conditions for small skis are new, and the conditions for authorisation to operate such skis are really nicer than they were now, and are also adapted to the actual situation on the ground. On such a ski, one person who is employed by the ski operator, the tasks of both the lifeguard and the ski supervisor may be carried out, but that person must also be qualified for both. However, the ski operator may also agree to perform the rescue tasks with an operator eligible for rescue on the ski slope, and this operator must also provide response time in accordance with the health rules in force. I don't think there's a dilemma here. On other skis, however, the number of supervisors is projected to decrease according to the capacity of the ski resort. As you can see, according to the bill it is envisaged for 500 skiers to provide one ski superintendent and previously this number was 300. This has also solved the dilemma, since so far the number of ski supervisors and rescue workers has not been evenly aligned with this bill. Therefore, it is important to note that the number of rescue workers and ski controllers can be adjusted according to the actual number of skiers on the ski slope, if there are therefore certain sectors on the ski slope and according to the capacity of operating cableways, i.e. by sector. In the current law, given the weather conditions when certain routes were already on land and the ski slopes were closed or the tractors were not operated, the number of skiers per capacity should have been required, now according to the individual sectors that are open. The operator may also reduce up to 30% the minimum number of supervisors present if they are simultaneously qualified for supervisor and resolution. I think that we are here again in the interest of not reducing safety on the ski slope, but in particular increasing competitiveness and also going against operators after the development of tourism and the economy. The bill also sets out some milder conditions for a ski controller to obtain a business card. The overseer will now be able to perform minor maintenance tasks related to safety. So anything related to security will be able to eliminate these discrepancies. However, the ski controller needs to know that from now on, there is also no longer any obligation to inform inspection services about the irregularities of ski operators and thus to eliminate conflicts of interest. I can tell you that there was virtually no report of the controller today. Why? The employer’s employer’s supervisor did not want to report his employer to the inspection service about the irregularity, and that is now the case. As I said, however, it will be able, which is related to security again, to address the irregularities and shortcomings identified in the examination of the ski resort, thus carrying out some other tasks, which are certainly related to safety on the ski slope. However, I must say that, with regard to the number of supervisors and rescue workers, there is certainly an important safeguard in the law, as a permit for operation may also provide for a larger number of supervisors and rescue workers, if this is necessary because of the terrain’s disunity or the lack of uniformity of the ski resort. Therefore, in the operating licence, the latter shall be determined and a higher number of supervisors, such as those minimum conditions laid down by the law, may be established in a particular operating licence. However, the law lays down minimum conditions to be met by the ski resort. About the security plan. The last one was quite a talk in the debate. The draft law allows the possibility to use a plan drawn up by operators on the basis of protection and rescue rules or to draw up their own rescue plan, which is not excluded from the law. I must say that after regular protection and rescue, large ski slopes have developed their rescue plan. We need to know, however, that this rescue plan also requires an appropriate workforce with this knowledge that will produce this plan. We certainly do not expect skis with one tow truck to hire an additional person to make this plan, so the law lays down minimum conditions. However, we cannot allow the controller to set himself minimum conditions for supervisors, which was the purpose of drawing up a security plan. So each of the operators will determine that there is only one controller on their ski, will set minimum conditions – minimum conditions are laid down in the law and are applicable both to small skis and large skis. Therefore, given the content envisaged, such a document would cover a substantial number of components, as foreseen in the proposal for this Act, while also regulating the content currently defined by the operating authorisation. It is therefore a disproportionate liberalisation of this area and we estimate that this would certainly have a negative impact on the provision of safety on skis if operators could determine for themselves the number of ski controllers and rescuers. This is now, as I have said, regulated by law with minimum conditions and operating permit. Like the Member of Parliament, she mentioned what that would mean. Maybe it'll be clearer if I say this: it's like building a house without a building permit. Perhaps on agricultural land, all that is defined in the building permit, but would be defined in the house plan. The security plan is the house plan and the building permit is the operating permit in this case. For an easier play. With regard to the proposal or, above all, the debate here took place on the 27th Article of the draft amendment of the SDS Group to Article 27. The law provides that a ski safety operator, as I said, is responsible. To this end, it must have a sufficient number of supervisors specified in the operating licence, who also take care of safety on behalf of the operator. The legal obligation therefore applies to a ski operator who also has a licence to operate. With regard to paragraphs 11 and 12, however, let me explain that the sub-law will also define a single record for each other, and thus also address administrative obstacles, because these identical contents will be combined, which will also prevent the duplication of records and the fulfilment of certain boxes to be met today, of the same headings as each other. However, the specific professional content will still need to be fulfilled separately by the lifeguard and the supervisor, and this is a specific professional content. However, the content that is common will be regulated by a sub-law and will be combined. I think I answered most of the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you've informed me that it's not true that you haven't spoken to a so-called liaison, however, of the cable people. You probably did. I'm not gonna say you've never spoken to anyone, but these amendments are the result of your conversations. Nothing was adopted, but listen to what was said on their side on the parental committee, and I didn't hear you say it wasn't true. That is, as if – because you like comparisons, you will probably like this – they work without Slovenian railways. That's what you've been told. And that's a fact. And now you've just confirmed it to me. So let's start at the end. Do you think the administrative obstacle or the withdrawal of the administrative barrier is to make two forms? You know, on each one of them, you're going to have to re-write the location, the participants and so on. The expertise in one matter can be completely separate, and there are really no two records required, and it's hard to convince me here. When you spoke about the so-called term, which is also, of course, the reason for the so-called amendment to Article 1, the concerns were as follows: that the dictionary defines responsibility differently than you define – or self-responsibility, responsibility in the law. It was obvious, but in the final stage we will see what will happen when you adopt the law and when it will experience its application. You're referring to a security plan, and you're also talking about doing various surveys and research. How many skis were involved? I've heard very little about this statistics. Five? Let's just leave it at that, but I don't think there's any reason to rely too much on these results. However, with regard to the security plan, some untruths have been said. It was clearly said that the security plan was drawn up on its own, a proposal that was coordinated and confirmed at the Ministry. So, don't hold up what you said, really doesn't hold that they're going to be laying down their own rules now. But it is far more reasonable for them to make a proposal because the skiers of those working on it know very well. I think I made it clear earlier that any ski resort can be the same in length, but it has a completely different complexity. Also visibility, if you'd like. It was just here that it was meant to prepare this plan, which is then coordinated by the Ministry; which then will make the final thirst aware of it. I think this would be much more meaningful and effective. For those who actually live by this law have concerns about a general balance sheet. One, two, they're just levellers. Skiing is certainly a sector that should not have – in this sense, because the lines, the ways, are so different that the balance sheet is out of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you, too. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I just have to comment on some nonsense. It's no different. Why do they want and propose to do the so-called introduction of the security plan themselves? Why? For one simple reason, because he who prepares him will also liberalize and in some ways adjust what he wants. However, the fact is that the ski operator must already have a rescue plan in place today in case of injury or a sudden illness on the ski slope. The plan shall contain the number of rescue workers on the ski slope, the location of the ski escape areas, except on a small ski resort, and the way rescue workers are activated. On the basis of these rules in the field of protection against natural disasters, large skis have already prepared their rescue plans on the ski slopes in which the rescue procedures and plans have been identified. If the plan of protection and rescue contains all the required content in the proposal for this law and the regulation which will govern – i.e., the regulation will be drawn up on the basis of the proposal for this Act – the detailed content and form of the rescue plan and no additional obligation will be imposed on the ski operator to draw up a new rescue plan. What are we saying? You would now like to split this into two parts and create additional costs, of course this is what the Secretary of State was talking about, that one would have to be employed, but if one was not employed, a contract would be concluded because it would have to do this job. And what's still important is going to be even higher costs. Please, someone in the back has a very big interest in this happening. And of course they will not give up until the law is passed, it is clear as a white day! That's why you're trying, you've got, I think, 13 minutes more and keep saying that, but I'm just telling you, this proposal you're proposing sucks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u139	Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I don't know where I said anything stupid, and you couldn't argue that anything was wrong. But I'll tell you again, the question is, what brings higher costs, you know. The fact that we will now cut some levellings down Slovenian ski slopes, or that those who work on the ski resort will prepare a draft, a proposal and then the matter will be accepted. This is your opinion, however, that the interested professional public sees otherwise, of course you think that this proposal is bad and I do not know what else is, stupid and so on. All right, honourable Member, I believe it. I believe and believe that it is important for the matter to be defined in this way as proposed by the association. Of course, it is then possible to make even more specific a matter that would otherwise be in this security plan, but it defines everything from rescue and so on. The fact is, on the board, they even said that today we have almost three lifeguards on individual skis, I don't know, on some smaller amount of skiers at once. I don't know if that's a good idea. Yeah, well, it would be great if every skier could have their own security guard, just like every resident of their own doctor. This is not because we are talking about efficiency and prudence, and it would certainly be more effective if we followed the method of preparation as proposed by the interested public; therefore, to draw up a proposal which must be finally confirmed by some agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u141	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you very much, President. Don't take my word for it. I said you're talking nonsense, but I didn't say it was a stupid proposal; you can't connect and understand what someone's explaining to you. Only this is your problem, and as long as I have time available, I will certainly try to explain each of your untruths. And once again, what I've been explaining is a security plan. Of course, the elements of this safety plan will be included in the rescue plan in the event of damage and money-seeking on the ski slope. And the submarital acts and this law will be very clearly defined. Why, though, can’t the controllers determine little by little according to their sense and adaptability to their ski resort? Because we need to establish what order. That is exactly what we want to avoid, that everyone will have little in their own way, because when something goes wrong, they will refer to us as the legislator who will say that we simply did not foresee it in marriage. However, of course, we also wanted a different direction and we want to regulate it with this law, which is to needlessly reduce costs, so that even smaller skis and skis, which were presented to them by the problem for the known reasons mentioned by the Secretary of State, could, of course, function normally. You know that no ski resort today works positively and does not boast about money and cannot boast that it is ideal and that it is a wonderful season. As memory does not deceive me, I continue to listen every season to how bad the season is, how difficult it is to provide funds, the equipment is prolonged, it needs to be renewed and, of course, it represents certain costs. For these costs, we must be careful not to limit them enough to compromise safety and, of course, to allow these skis to function normally. That is why we have also changed certain parameters within the law in this law – the number of supervisors – and in short all necessary measures to enable this ski resort to function normally. Even more so, when certain cable devices do not work, it will not still be necessary to provide such and such a number of supervisors, but significantly less. I don't know what you don't understand, colleague. You keep referring to your expertise, and you give us some paper on your expertise. Excuse me, you have to understand one thing: they've agreed, they haven't agreed, they've got their arguments, but now they're trying through the National Assembly to fully exercise their interests, so that they can fully liberalize the entire space and decide all things. Yeah, it's not gonna work, it's just not gonna work! I don't know how else to explain this. I ask you further, for what skills you have, but not my words. Don't turn them around. At least repeat what I say. So much for what's stupid.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u143	Are you answering your phone again? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Now I think that's enough! Above all, amendments are the proposals of those who manage skis. I only represent them today because this interested community, we know, cannot participate in a national assembly or a meeting. They said theirs on the board. Why don't you take another look at the tape? Don't turn my words around, or every time you answer, you're basically trying to justify what you said earlier. I'm not talking nonsense. But for me, it's a stupid thing to put skis that are so different in the balance room. That's bullshit. That's definitely why you can cause, I'll say, a security threat. Because we certainly have different ski slopes. Each one is different, and it would be appropriate for those who work there to participate. But now they're not being taken into account. They don't matter. You have a law here, and you'll be working on it. Pika! Because that's what we said, because in this country we are the master! It's a mistake. I still think that this security plan would be useful, and it also defines certain things that must then be defined by everyone, because it is not possible for each person to write something in his own way. However, they can clearly suggest what they consider to be the best solution in lifesaving services as well as everything else. That's what we're talking about today, nothing else. You have a different opinion. I respect him, and that's why I don't say you're talking nonsense. But please, with regret, we're not going anywhere. Our desire was simply to follow the opinion of those who are users of this law — we are not heard, for we are already accustomed. But not now to pour manure on us when we summarize these proposals and propose them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u145	Mr Andrej Špenga, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u146	President, thank you for your word. On these last thoughts, they're practically repeating themselves, I'd still like to respond. Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert mentions that it has been mentioned that it is as if the Law on Railways were written without railways. So you mentioned, the Law on Railroads, that was said [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's the opposite here. So, the Ski Safety Act has been written all the time with the Association of Slovenian cablesmen and the Mountain Centers Chamber. I've defined this a few times. The ski association of Slovenia and ski schools are ski users. Like you, me, all of us. If I compare the safety of passengers, the minimum conditions for the safety of passengers in road transport are certainly recorded in the law and we cannot allow the association of bus carriers to write in its safety plan how to ensure the safety of passengers. This is therefore defined in the law and so it is exactly the same here, this is defined in the Ski Safety Act. The Ski Safety Act lays down minimum conditions to be met by ski slopes with regard to the number of ski controllers and rescue workers. Once again, the latter on the number of supervisors may be higher, as this is also defined in the operating licence. And the operating permit regarding the terrain's variability, according to natural age, i.e. the terrain, according to the course's bending, therefore, determines the minimum number of skiers. The latter is also specified in the safety authorisation. However, operators can still determine a larger number of ski controllers. I can't agree with you saying that the interested public, that is to say, the Association of Slovenian cable drivers, that was mentioned on the committee, or the Chamber of Mountain Centres was not invited. What I've shown you here, these two sides, that's just how many times we've coordinated with them, not how many times have the Interdepartmental Group met and the others; and these meetings were 12. If you'd like, I'll tell you what we've reached at these meetings. The law was published last June, in coordination with the Association of Slovenian Wielkers and the Chamber of Mountain Centres, and their proposals were taken into account in the context of the inter-resort coordination before the law on e-democracy was published last June. In order to be able to talk about the levelling machine here, we don't know what levelling machines you're talking about, if you've read the current Ski Safety Act, then we find out that the levelling machine is gone right now. Why? We used to have skis all in one basket, now we have a big, small, micro ski resort. We now define the number of supervisors according to the sectors, and more supervisors can also be allowed in the use permit and the number of supervisors can also be increased by ski operators. That's how your claims are, I'm sorry, but they don't keep you here. With regard to the security plan, when we used to have illustrations and comparisons with other laws. See, the draft law, which provided that the Commission would give a positive opinion on the security plan; therefore, the additional commission, the additional costs, the external contractor or the authorised person who would have to draw up the security plan must be otherwise employed; all of this has now been resolved by the minimum standards laid down in the law and therefore the latter is further defined in the operating authorisation. This does not preclude the fact that large skis do not have a safety plan. You mentioned SWOT analysis and survey. Five skis to respond. We did SWOT analysis and survey with all skis, not five. What you've been talking about is SWOT analysis of the Association of Slovenian cable drivers, not ours, we've invited everyone. In fact, their analysis defined only 9 of the largest ski slopes and when the latter did this analysis, not the Ministry of the Interior, but the Association of Slovenian cable drivers, it responded to only 5 large skis that were written here: Mariborsko Pohorje, Rogla, Kranjska Gora, Cerkno and Golta. And this is their analysis of only five big skis. While we have small skis 57. But I think now I have answered all my concerns and dilemmas. I can only say that I am happy that again we will allow our young skiers, our little ones who take the first steps on the ski slope, to be able to ski again in their place on their own cableway. This is certainly an added value for large ski resorts, where they will upgrade their skills and ski later after these first steps on small ski slopes. I think we have taken one step forward for Slovenian skiing, the Slovenian economy and tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u147	There's still a debate. Please sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you too are deceiving. I'm not talking about the current law, I'm talking about amendments that could help make the balance sheet smaller. And it's not true that everyone's just going to set something. It clearly says at least one. At least! Thus, they did not specify the number above, nor did they define the exact number, since they are convinced that this depends on the size of the skis. And it's true, now you're finally saying there was another analysis. Not just one, it seems, more. Now, we could talk about how many skis, we could talk about miles of skis to the number of all the kilometers we have in Slovenia. In short, we can just say one thing and say another. At the same time, you just said that, of course, there are good solutions in the law, which we do not doubt, and we do not criticize, but we have exclusively defined ourselves to what seems to us to be a flaw. And that's the security plan. Because you've just told us how much it means to you, in a way, to reduce administrative obstacles – but then the law provides that the security plan can still be done if they want to. Come on! These are unnecessary administrative obstacles. If you think you don't have to and someone else will know about every ski resort, then it's completely inappropriate to have that in a marriage. Then that's enough. Yes, it is here; a commission to finally confirm – not one person, a commission. Do you know how many committees you have? Now you're saying it's going to increase costs here. They're busy people who can do it in their working hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u149	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Now I don't know what you mean. But I do know that the amendment you signed and submitted is your amendment. Where did you copy it from, or we all know that. There's no dilemma. But if you're defending yourself, then at least be objective and at least read what someone's really up to. I have before me a bunch of comments from the Ski Association and comments from operators and are generally exclusive. What the skiers demanded, the operators wanted something contrary. Now, I'm going to read you exactly this thesis that you've been defending here, and I'm going to ask you, who are you actually defending or what are you thinking, because I have a feeling that you're not defending the right position. At least I don't understand him. The ski link, I quote, says the following: "The proposal of the law during the proposed solutions in the summary of the material lists some novelties which, on the one hand, represent opportunities and solutions for facilitating the operation of micro-uncommercial skis and, on the other hand, the proposed solutions represent a very dangerous and unwise silence for larger commercial skiers, which, for known reasons and even at the expense of less safety, have been trying to reduce the number of ski controllers all the time." That's what the skiers explained. And then they further argue, "Therefore, for larger skis should remain a limit pass of 300, not 500 skiers, or a formula recognised in the world should be established in the law, rather than one that determines the permeability of the ski resort according to its characteristics". Now, the controllers. I quote: "This claim proves a complete lack of knowledge of the actual situation in providing safety on the ski slope. The practice has shown that there are many too many staff on Slovenian ski resorts at the time when they are less visited, which are legally necessary to ensure safety and rescue on ski slopes. At a time when the skis are very busy, the operators provide more rescuers and supervisors, regardless of the legal requirements," as this is the same as they do, "therefore, it was a professional view that the number of rescue and security personnel should be determined in accordance with the current visit to the ski resort, as larger and better equipped skis have the infrastructure to keep track of the number of participants on the ski slopes". You explained earlier that you were defending the amendments made by the cable operators, but you argued the opposite, you even wanted to turn the matter around when you explained that in fact now the proposer, the government is actually reducing the number of supervisors and what I know what else, but they really want it. Mrs. Bahova, there's some things you need to read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u151	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Here it actually goes, as always here in Parliament, for these pinkponks for some for and for others against, you always have to look for hair in the egg, everyone has the right to say your own, and I think there is a different logic to follow here. It is necessary to explain why this law is good and where it is needed, if any, to change. I think that, first of all, it is necessary to be aware of the following: in 2002, this law was written and made; in 2008, it was somehow assigned and corrected; now, for a long time, it is being re-organized, it is being modernised. What is the greatest emphasis? The greatest emphasis here – says firstly – on the financial burden of ski operators and, which is very important, administrative obstacles, it is true to remove them. Especially for these skis, as we call them micro or small skis, so-called village ski resorts. But it's important because in most cases they're the most likely to get hit. All the skis, if I am not mistaken, are 85 in Slovenia and there are only a couple of those who have more than 30 kilometers and clearly cannot be compared with Austria, not Switzerland, not France, that I am not talking about anyone else. It is therefore very important that we look at this law from this point of view that the Government and the Ministry themselves wanted to take a step forward towards the economy. Why am I saying that? Because micro and small skis are the basics, the fence on which most of us began to ski. If we took all of this as a positive approach, then we would also understand that these skis are also a basis for the development and tradition of skiing with us. And what else does that mean? In other words, the law also burdens ski operators, because we have imposed on them very high criteria and requirements, we also clearly define worse offences, which is also important. Here was also this dilemma about supervisors, whether up to 300 skiers should be one, now the new is up to 500, which is again a kind of rationalisation. Here the opponents have once again their opinion that there may also be questionable security here, but I think that by the GIZ, this Association of Slovenian cable drivers who manage this has been made clear that this is manageable. Then these burdens of informing inspection services about the irregularity of the ski operator and what is most important and most forgotten and here I think the Skiing Association could also take a lot of steps forward, is knowledge and finally this skiing ethics. We all forget here, at least those who ski, what skiing ethics mean. Okay, so the FIS 10 rules apply, but let's put our hands on the heart and say who's holding onto it.The skiing and ski techniques themselves have become so aggressive and so fast that if we don't learn any relationship from a kid, even on the ski slopes, that I don't speak out of the ski slopes, then it's very questionable. Here it is laid down, it is true and the supervision and sanctions that are necessary. Here it is necessary to tell and invite managers that the supervisor must devote himself not only to this speedy ride but also to alcoholization and, clearly, skiing techniques, because some are overreacting. Whether or not the proposer has succeeded in burdening the operators or has been satisfied with all the standards, this will be assessed in the next season, after the next season and still the possibility of corrections. However, if the participants involved – and as has been said to me and also to the committee – were clearly stated by the Ministry that there was a multiple meeting with the stakeholders – we must also make it clear that this law refers to the safety of the ski resort, in particular to the Association of Slovenian cable drivers and the Chamber of Mountain Centres. It is clear that the Skiing Association can also state its arguments and this is where the ministry was headed. But I think it was basically necessary to listen to what the Secretary of State of Spheng said, so is the Association of Slovenian cable drivers who manage this, and the Chamber of Mountain Centers. This is very important. And we must not forget that this cooperation is necessary, and here, too, the MNZ, as I said before, went on hand and also agreed with the Ski Association on what they were concerned that this would be settled, but this in another law. I think that this law must be absolutely supported because it is a step forward, especially for these micro and small ski resorts, and also because of the ski tradition and the final stage, because it is still an economic sector that is also important for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u153	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] Then I ask you to report again. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much. See, at the moment, what's legal was interesting to me that after analysis of the cableway link we currently have more than – well, the exact data of 3.57 paramedics per person. This is certainly disproportionate — yes. Yeah, on average, per person. Look, this is the information they gave to the board. And it is precisely the desire to maintain safety on the ski slope, to increase it and to make sure — this is what I am talking about today — adapt to the various skiers. This is what we advocate in the amendment to make a security plan that they make at a particular ski resort, which is then confirmed at the Ministry. What colleague Möderndorfer used to explain, I really don't know what he's talking about, because you're talking about things where opinions have been written, but it's not in the amendments. What you're talking about isn't in the amendments. The amendments are to establish a security plan to enable this and then to be adopted, that is in the amendments. In the amendments there is also the lowest number and amendments are those where there were no different views between them. Both of them were defending the security plan because it was useful. Of course, we all know that they also had several coordination meetings and various opinions among them. That's logical, because they come from different spheres, but most of these amendments are essentially amendments to the wiring. They are the ones who certainly know the situation on the ground and were, but they were, concerns, and this information, when they spoke about rescue workers, made me realize that things were obviously not well arranged. Of course, we should not do anything wrong that would reduce security, but sometimes when I finally make a decision, it is only necessary to know what is worthwhile and what is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u155	Another debate on the first, please re-apply. [[…]] Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you very much, President. I've already accepted this, because I've told you many times that you don't want to understand me; not that you don't understand me, you don't want to. If you're already filing data and referring to cables, then you're speaking correctly. You said it was 2.25 – or I don't know how much you said — to a person. No, no! On the ski slopes of 1,000 skiers is 2.56, according to a survey carried out by the association in 2015 in the ski season between 2013 and 2014 and 2015, which showed that on average there were — once again — 1,000 skiers 2.56 rescuers and 3.26 supervisors. Look, I've already told you before, and I need to tell you again: you will have to read the document and at least some things will have to be written down and used the exact data. You're saying you don't even know what I was saying or what text I was using, that it's not in the amendments. No, I've shown you how to twist words when you tell me that we're essentially lowering standards, lowering supervisors, and I've been telling you and reading what the cable company is basically defending. But you said a little earlier that you actually had their suggestions. That's what I warned you about, so don't turn my words around again. Look, Mrs. Bah, I promise you, every time you speak nonsense or falsehood, I'll let you know if I only have a second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u157	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. I can see that there are a lot of people who know a certain subject, but I had to stop by, even though there is very little time left. I also agree with the fact that the law is a step forward, especially because it distinguishes between different types of skis, in particular enables small skiers to survive, and I am concerned that the law itself does not take into account sufficient suggestions from ski operators, who I think are the only ones who know how things work in practice. And given that operators are excluded in certain segments in the preparation of certain sub-legislative acts, I believe that this issue will be addressed again in a very short time. For example, "the detailed content of the form of the rescue plan referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article is prescribed by the Minister responsible for health" – it was earlier, with the Ministry of Transport and the Association of Wi-Fi. In this case, I tell you already that we will run into a lot of obstacles and practical problems once this is done. That is why I was sure that the coalition would take greater account of the Slovenian Association of Wi-Fi.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u159	Mr Andrej Špenga, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you, President, for your word. Speaking of analyses, SWOT analyses, plans and so on. As I mentioned earlier, the Association of Slovenian Wires, which has no representativeness, carried out an analysis, but he is an advocate of large skis. In the whole analysis, we have taken into account such operating days of summer and it is not right to compare only one analysis, a respected Member, which was made in July 2015 – then in July 2015, when only five large skis responded – with other analyses, which were made each year. Why? Year 2013/2014, as defined by this analysis. So the analysis defines 2013/2014, when there were at least ski days in ten-year history. In 2013/2014 we had a thousand 230 ski days, while the numbers 2008/2009 were 2 000 700 ski days almost. And here's the smallest number. Just an analysis, when we have at least the ski days that define only the five largest ski centres, is not right to compare it with the analyses carried out every year by the Ministry of the Interior. However, we have certainly examined this analysis and therefore, as I say, on the basis of the other SWOT analyses, the surveys and also the analysis that we have received have already met with the association before the opening of the law. Every year we meet with them before and after the ski season. On average, between 1999 and today, there are a thousand 992 days of recovery. The analysis should take into account the number of visitors on the ski slope. On average, we have one million 290 thousand visitors on the ski slopes. What was the number of accidents? The number of accidents is on average 985, and all of this needs to be taken into account in the analysis. And we can't talk about five big skis, but if we have skis in Slovenia that have been authorised to operate, 94 of them are 57 small skis. And that we could do all of this, we did a full analysis of every ski resort; from the number of ski days, to the number of skiers, rescuers, the number of ski tracks, the number of tractors and so on. Ski slopes are very different here. From the fact that Maribor Pohorje has a capacity of about 8 000 98, until the second largest ski resort has only 18 cable devices. 18 cable devices have 8 thousand 98 capacity, while Kranjska Gora has 4 thousand 459 capacity and 16 cable devices. And all of this needs to be taken into account in these analyses. Therefore, once again, the security plan envisaged in this amendment to the amendment of your parliamentary group would be composed by the controller himself. That's what we're all about, and that's what you said. You know, the utility license isn't exactly some group you called it, but it's a group of experts who issue a usable permit from the Ministry of Infrastructure. These experts are involved in the administrative procedure and these experts also go to visit each ski resort before issuing a user-friendly permit. I think we agree with that. It's an administrative procedure. Issue of an administrative authorisation. Therefore, the administrative authorisation shall be issued by the Ministry of Infrastructure in accordance with the administrative procedure. And I cannot agree that for an administrative permit this is what a group of experts is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u161	Okay, I'll give you the procedure, even though I know what's gonna happen next. [[…]] Procedurally, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u162	No, I owe it to the Secretary of State to tell the Secretary of State that a valid permit will arise in the legal procedure when a prior building permit is issued. When you were talking about a document issued by the Ministry of Ski Operations, we were talking about an operating permit. Only so that we can understand each other correctly that you will not deceive Members and anyone else. That's how statistics don't solve everything sometimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u163	Procedural? Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u164	That it will not remain in the air and that it will not appear that I can not read, but it would be good for others to read at times. On average, one accident dealt with 3,57 paramedics. That's what I said. And that's true. That is why it is important, President, here will be my procedural to listen and not operate with other numbers that are also listed; but we do not turn those who have been exposed. One more thing, the security plan after this amendment specifies at least one lifeguard, says at least. The upper limit is not set. But he's talking about what you said yourself, and the secretary of state, that the skis are different.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u165	The procedural proposal was to listen. I do not consider this to be a procedural proposal; it is only an assumption of any communication that takes place in the National Assembly. It's a procedural abuse. Please don't abuse me on the other side, because you're just gonna tell me to warn her. I'm warning her. The previous one was a correction of the error, and I take it as a procedural one, but this is not because it is a discussion through a procedural proposal after time is running out. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment to Article 1. No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Who wants to discuss Article 23 and the amendment of the SDS Group? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the promotion of coherent regional development within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Aleš Cantarutti.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members, honourable Members! Allow me a few more words in the second reading of that law. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development aim to promote coherent regional development more effectively. We propose amendments in order to improve the solutions that have proved to be weak or difficult to implement so far. The new law addresses the current issue of the ownership structure of regional development agencies, regulates their removal from the register and strengthens the public function of regional development agencies in individual regions. In doing so, I would like to point out that the development agencies remain institutions in majority public ownership, which is being gathered by the Council of the Region with a call for proposals giving priority to institutions with a greater share of public influence. Simplifications are proposed to replace the members of the development council of the region. In addition, municipalities with a development coefficient of less than 0.9 municipalities under the Law on the Financing of the Communities are added to border areas where they are bordering on a border problem area and the relationship to a specific law on development is regulated. New tasks in the area of promoting and developing entrepreneurship and the culture of innovation, the implementation of regional economic internationalisation and spatial planning programmes at regional level are added to the development tasks of countries in the regional level. The new law provides that arrangements for the development of regions shall be in force until the period of duration of the projects included or replaced by new arrangements. Regional State aid, regional policy emergency measures and the public fund of the Republic of Slovenia for regional development and rural development shall be specified and simplified procedures for the allocation of funds. In addition, some legal editorial corrections are proposed due to legislation adopted in the European Union and Slovenia following the entry into force of the USSR-2. I am sure that we have also taken important steps with regard to indigenous national communities. This is how the Programme for the Promotion of the Development of the Economic Basis of the National Community for Grants, which we will provide in the State budget, is introduced. In doing so, we plan to remove the gap that is pointed out by the Italian and Hungarian national communities through a multi-annual programme prepared by the national communities and adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The aim of this programme is also to train national community entities to produce more efficient projects, which will lead to more efficient use of available development funds and, consequently, to more efficient use of credits directed at areas of national communities from purchasing funds under the Social Property Privatisation Act. In this regard, we support the amendment tabled by Members of the National Communities, which shortens the time for the preparation of the first programme and sets out the first programming period 2017-2020. We will monitor the use of credits from purchasing funds carefully in the coming years and, if necessary, I promise to address this issue further as a systemic issue and propose an appropriate change of legal basis. For the time being, I believe that the effects of the proposed solutions should be awaited by the introduction of the programme. In this context, we have also had a broad debate with the minority communities and I think we have come up with good solutions in the light of the possibilities under this programme or law. To conclude, once again, the effects of all the measures of the law adopted in 2011 and amended in 2012 cannot be fully assessed. This is why we have not proposed greater interventions to the law. Although the revised number of articles is large, these are changes that do not affect the objectives themselves, the foundations, the principles of the law. In our opinion, however, they will enable its implementation to be faster and easier. Respectable, Slovenia's advantage must be and must also be strong regions that will contribute even more to Slovenia's competitiveness. We are convinced that this law, or amendment, is also the right way to this end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u167	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u168	The Committee on the Economy is at its 34th emergency session. 5. 2016 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD, the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. At the meeting, members and members of the Committee were also invited to propose amendments to the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 7 and to the report of the Commission on National Communities, including the amendment of the Commission on National Communities to Article 7, which the Committee considered as a proposal for amendments to the Commission's Committee on National Communities. In its proposal for amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD's parliamentary groups, the Committee voted to Article 7, including the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 7. With the adoption of these two amendments, the proposal for amendments to the Commission's Committee on National Communities has become irrelevant. At the meeting, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that there was no need to present a written opinion of the Service, as the amendments tabled by the coalition groups were appropriate and fully aligned with the views of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Vice-President of the Commission for the National Communities presented a report by the Commission for the National Communities, which considered the draft law as an interested working body and adopted the amendments to Article 7. In his view, the Commission's proposal for a law and an amendment for national communities did not provide the expected systemic solutions to fully address the problem of indigenous national communities. He further explained on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Group that, for this reason, the Italian and Hungarian National Community Group had tabled its amendment to Article 7 of the bill. A representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development also participated in the meeting, explaining that the Commission supports the proposal of the law. In the debate, some members and members of the draft law confirmed and stressed that it improves those provisions of the current law which proved difficult or impossible to implement and provides a good basis for promoting coherent regional development in Slovenia. In the opinion of some discussers, the Commission's proposal for a law and amendment for national communities represents a positive step towards achieving financial incentives for areas where the Roma community lives, as well as financial incentives for creating an economic basis for the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities. As a positive solution to the proposed law, the abolition of the provision on the third founding share in the RRA and the modification of the agreement on the development of the region until the expiry of the period of duration of the projects involved or the replacement of new ones. On the contrary, other members did not consider that the proposal would not help to reduce differences in the development of individual regions and to address the financing problem successfully and to promote the development of the least developed regions. The debate also highlighted the need to elect the provinces as soon as possible in order to draw European funds into the new financial perspective. In addition, the State Secretary and the Ministry's representative provided detailed explanations on the issues raised and the debaters' dilemmas raised. The Committee considered and adopted a proposal for amendments to Article 7 and amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. The Committee also considered the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and did not accept them. Thus, the amendments of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group to Article 7 and the amendment of the Commission's Committee on National Communities to Article 7 have become irrelevant. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u169	Since the assembly held a general discussion at its 19th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment is in line with the Government and also with the coalition. He's important for two reasons. The first is that it is a means which, this time and in this case, is actually intended to create an economic basis for national communities. And secondly, it establishes a mechanism from the operation of a programme for the use of funds for this purpose. The programme shall be prepared by each of the national communities, together with the Regional Development Agency, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationalities and the Ministry of Economy. This programme to promote the economic foundations of indigenous national communities is then adopted by the Government. Here, someone may have some doubts, but both national communities believe that at this stage we really need the help of all these entities, to actually put an economic base in the areas where we live, in a way that also achieves equality in this area, as provided for in the international agreements which Slovenia has inherited, which is also provided for in our Constitution and as many documents that deal with the situation and rights of national communities foresee. This is a problem related to the change in the system which we had with the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The change of regime has since enabled the creation of an economic foundation of national communities, which the previous regime has not been able to provide in any way and which has placed the national community in a difficult or even subordinate position, since the national communities have not been able and should have created their own economic bases, so that they can then operate on an equal footing in this area where they live. We will support our amendment, which also enjoys the support of the ministry or government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u171	The text is by Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, Mr Battelli has taken the essence of what has happened in the past few weeks and is expressed somewhere in the proposed amendment of our Group of Members. We have already foreseen, once the law has been introduced, that a system-wide solution, long awaited by the national communities, can actually be established here at this level in this area. Although it was a bit complicated at first, there may have been no real context for a common understanding of the whole problem, but as has already been pointed out, both the ministry and the coalition in later talks have gone in the direction of actually solving this problem. As has already been pointed out, the greatest contribution of the proposed amendment is that it specifically highlights the importance of providing economic activity or the economic basis of national communities, which is also provided by grants from the State budget. This is a commitment that, hopefully, has actually taken a step forward in this important area after several years. Maybe the fact that I'm less into something later. In this systemic context, we wanted to regulate to some extent the part of the planned money for the economic basis of the national communities, which is the basis of the law on privatisation from the purchase, but together we have come to realize that perhaps on the basis of the experience of the current system provided by the adoption of this amendment, we will also find a suitable solution in this area, as the Secretary of State has pointed out, for that part of the issue as well. It was not initially pointed out or at least I did not hear it, but it is precisely because of this that we have tabled today's amendment to the original 19b, so that what has been tabled today is actually true in case of Article 19b. To conclude, let me stress once again that I am looking forward to some general support for this amendment, and of course we will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u173	Mr. Franz Ly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u174	Mr President, thank you for the floor. All together, a very nice greeting! In particular, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State in particular, because we have had a debate on the committee itself on how to take the right step in the right direction so that the incentive system for development, strengthening the economic base of national communities can be more effective and successful. With this amendment, as far as I understand it, we are or will take the first right step towards improving the situation in this area. That's to be said for. Let me mention, as the Secretary of State himself, there has been a lot of effort here, as I said on the committee itself, that the anniversary is somewhere at this time. One year of hard work produced fruit and we exceeded that state that was ineffective, insufferable and irrational. I hope that we will gather so much strength and political will to bring an additional systemic solution under the roof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u175	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. This concerns Article 7 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the two nationalities Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I would also discuss a little in general about this, not just Article 7, if you allow the President to do so. First of all, I would like to stress that the essence of this law is consistent with regional development. This is called even development of the whole of Slovenia. On the basis of this they are then organised by statistical regions of the Regional Development Agency or the Regional Development Council, sometimes it was a world of the region composed only of representatives of the municipalities and each municipality had one vote in the world of the region. Following the amendment of the law, the regional development council was in place of the Council of the region, where representatives of the economy and representatives of NGOs are also in a strange situation where a double voting right is given to representatives of municipalities when voting on the regional development programme. At that time, in the Group of Members, we pointed out that this is not right because projects produce municipalities and finance municipalities and that we have other levers where representatives of the economy and NGOs can participate. But that's what's left. To implement this, regional development agencies have then been established, which are set up on different bases. One of them fully privatised and acted as classical economic companies, buying building land in the former republics of Yugoslavia and repossessing money and nominating it in a variety of ways. And so the practical mission was born. In the world of regions where I myself participated as a former mayor, ownership in the majority of the largest city halls, which produced development in its own measure, had a bad effect on it. However, in the previous financial perspective and in the previous financial perspective, there was quite a lot of money for coherent regional development. However, the tendering conditions were such that larger municipalities were more developed, although they had a greater impact on the adoption of this regional development programme alone, the smaller municipalities had a higher priority in infrastructure projects and most of these projects could be classified and acquired resources, which in fact ensured coherent regional development or greater development. More money went to undeveloped congregations, and practically this purpose was well accomplished. In this financial perspective, however, there is not even 10% of the money that was earmarked for these purposes in the previous financial perspective. Already with the establishment of the regional development council, it intervened in some way in an area where the impact of the smaller undeveloped communities has been reduced. Regional development agencies have gone to some strange waters and the basic mission has not been justified. Different in Slovenia, somewhere more, less, but when money is taken, when there is no more funds for these areas, there is no real drive or desire for a good regional development programme to be adopted, because there is virtually no means of doing so. The cohesion funds mentioned here were not managed by these cohesion funds and by the projects of the regional development agency, but only by the investor selected. This was one of the municipalities on a specific cohesion project. I have also pointed out many times that the regional development agency should be able to run these cohesion projects, because the individual municipalities that were practically investors, even where there were several smaller municipalities, were not able to drive these projects properly and could eventually become a problem. In my opinion, the Regional Development Agency should be organised, trained to carry out these projects and to obtain other European funds on behalf of all municipalities. However, I think we are in one of these situations where regional development agencies are more of a goal and a greater cost than those municipalities will benefit if something does not change. Also, the statistical regions, then within this sub-region, the distribution of these funds available in this financial perspective, I think we are going more in this direction to spend 2 euros to share one with all these institutions and the money at our disposal. The only solution would be to organise a local self-government at NUTS 3 level, that is to say, a province where the elected authorities could be responsible for coherent regional development so that certain funds and tasks from the country could be transferred to the provinces and the management of this money would be completely different. Now we have a mix of something that doesn't work, and there's no money for. The country should also choose in the new financial perspective, given the situation of municipal equipment in Slovenia, significantly more money for environmental projects, but not for soft projects simply to nod, or to admit without shame that much of what we should build with us, we do not yet have municipal infrastructure and that Europe should provide more money for these projects in our cake. We should not be ashamed that 30% of our citizens or households do not yet have healthy drinking water, that we do not have the rescue and treatment of waste water, where we are at risk of punishment. These penalties will be paid by our households after all. I'm not talking about waste yet, because there is no more resources in this financial perspective, and we don't have any investments. And this is where the state canceled. What we are now restoring by this law is that more than one third of the municipalities can be involved in the management of individual development agencies or sacred regions, which means nothing to me but centralisation. They are already within representatives of the economy and NGOs. And these representatives of the economy are mainly from major municipalities and NGOs, not from those smaller ones that are so needed for development. That's why we're fixing something. However, in order for these regional development agencies to be some bodies of public law, not parts and I don't know what else. This would give us reason why a private person would be the co-founder of a regional development agency or have a majority in this agency if he did not see the point of making a profit. This does not go with the mission of this regional development agency. In the end, he could eventually become the owner of a plumbing or a sewage system. That would be an interest. Against it, we all, I think, are fighting as much as we know each other in this local government. That's why it's kind of a fire rescue, and in the meantime we have some sugars or carrots to cover, we mediate the whole thing. But regional development agencies, if they continue to work as they do now, will spend more public money than they will contribute to the greater or more coherent regional development of our Slovenia. That is why I think it would be time for the government to look a little deeper into the problems and to reorganise the institutions, if we can't get to the provinces in any way, for the real organisation of local self-government at NUTS level 3, at NUTS level 2, we have been forced by cohesion regions and many are replacing cohesion regions that are two in Slovenia and the provinces that we cannot establish. Or the authorities are afraid of powerful provincial leaders who would demand more money for coherent regional development and be strong in policy-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u177	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment to Article 7, I have no problems, I will support it, it is okay, but I understand it because it says that there are irreparable financial incentives for creating the economic basis of indigenous national communities and for faster development of the areas where they live. It is a pomurian Hungarian self-regulatory national community and Italian community. Here I understand that it is the entire region that the Hungarian Hungarian National Community lives in the region of Pomurje. It wouldn't be good for us to cut this Pomurje again, to share. This is about Pomurje or analogy, for the statistical region, statistical regions along the Slovenian-Italian border, where the Italian self-government national community lives. It is very important that we take care of the development of these two national communities. Since they are at the border, the government should also consider multiplying these funds in terms of cross-border projects. I know a little better the Slovenian indigenous national community, which lives in Use, than the Slovenian national indigenous community, which lives in Italy, but the Slovenian indigenous national community in Use has major development problems. Here, because we have European cross-border projects, the government should actually encourage these cross-border projects. These funds, ladies and gentlemen, must go exclusively to new jobs. Because if one day people are moving out on us, then we've lost these regions. We have lost the indigenous Hungarian Hungarian National Community and Italian, and also the indigenous Slovenian National Community, which lives in Italy or Hungary, on the other hand. But the fact is, when we talk about coherent regional development, that this content is simply not going well. During these 25 years, Slovenia has achieved much and has not achieved enough in this area. Maybe we can even say she fell. And here too, a lot of political groups must say, mea culpa, it's my fault. We were in 2008 when we were in the government, just before we set up the provinces as the second level of local self-government – not national, local self-government. We had all the calculations for the developing regions because the opposition, especially the LDS and the SD, demanded it at the time. We had all the calculations. The problem was that after the adoption of the constitutional amendment, we did not get enough votes from the opposition at the time to provide two-thirds for a key law that would accommodate the provinces in Slovenia. And that beats us. He knows that. He's very familiar with our development. It is true that I now remember going back to the 2008 anniversary, when we really only wanted to drive the provinces in this country because of consistent regional development. As we're told, unfortunately we didn't make it. While I respect people's will in the consultation referendum, today many, especially those from less developed regions, pay this tax. That's a fact. Although I don't know if the government has current data today, but at the time we had accurate calculations, including budgets, and we knew precisely that the pomur region would take 34 years to reach the level of development of the Ljubljana region if the development of the region stopped in 2008. These were very interesting projections at the time, as it is today, I don't know, but I'm sure the government has this data. The Sava region would take 31 years to reach the level of development of the Ljubljana region if the development of the Ljubljana region stopped in 2008. There must be some of you here from the inner-Kraška region. It would take 22 years to reach the central Ljubljana region. We just need to talk about numbers, so that we can imagine how this coherent regional development works for us. And we'll see it doesn't work. In this context, yesterday, I asked the distinguished Minister of Restovalsk, whom I am convinced as an opposition Member that he understands that we need to take steps faster and longer in terms of more coherent regional development. The problem is, how can I say, in the brutality of the state budget, when the cake is only as big as it is, and there is no money for development projects. Negotiations have begun with the Ministry of Co-financing of our key pomur development projects. There are only five of them, some regions have laid many more, but there is no money. This is where everything starts and ends with money. Therefore, we need to be more careful and decisive when it comes to adopting the balance sheet or budgets for the following years, so that we can provide sufficient financial resources here in the National Assembly if we sincerely want coherent regional development. Slovenia is not only a central region. Slovenia is also the extreme Western statistical region and the extreme eastern region is the far south of the extreme northern region and so on. The country is as strong as it is on its borders. And that must come to our minds when we share the money, as we say when we adopt the budget. We know that the Government has adopted an operational programme for the implementation of cohesion policy, a European cohesion policy for the multi-annual financial period 2014-2020. If you go to the mayor's regions, say, or statisticians, they will say that they are not satisfied that there is too much money for so-called soft projects, which do not give exactly the desired effect in terms of opening up, creating new jobs. And here's the problem. Since we do not have coherent regional development, we have many regions where there is no infrastructure. We are talking about not having road infrastructure, railway infrastructure and how an investor will go to a region, some remote place where he will have to drive too much time, so he will waste too much time. Today, economic operators choose those locations that are close to transport infrastructure. This is very important. And we must first create this infrastructure. And I'm not just talking about transport infrastructure. Look, one of the biggest cohesion projects in the previous financial perspective, the pomur water pipeline is not finished. Maybe there's a little more than a half way. Perhaps the Slovenian public thinks that the project is unlocked. It's not. And there's actually no money for this second phase of the construction of the Pomeranian pipeline. And we will have written in the constitution that every citizen has the right to drinking water. When this article of the Constitution is adopted, citizens will come before the government and say, "The government give us drinking water!" Because otherwise, there's no reason that we have this right in the constitution, is there? That's how I understand this. Coherent regional development will really be consistent when there is more money for these purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u179	Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, for your application. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. I'm going to talk about the White Land and the Cavalry. The white landscape has completely forgotten. Not only has there not been any investment in the White Land in the past 20 years, but the former state has treated it quite stepmotherly, although we were once very important, it has been said that the land of golden hearts. During World War II, there was a free territory there, the first hospital, the first theatre, if we go back, the first fire defense in Slovenia was established in the White landscape, specifically in Metlika. First bottom bank and loan. But it was slowly forgotten, and the Belokrans rightly felt completely alienated. The Goryans are a huge separation that separates the White Land from the rest of the country. Once upon a time, before independence, we were somewhat more inclined, if it was difficult for us to get to New Meat or Ljubljana, we turned to Karlovac and Zagreb. The pipeline was also planned from that end. When I came to work at the Academy of Theatres in the 1980s, radio, film is not television, I learned from professors that I speak a non-existent sentence in Slovenia. When we used to hang out with the theaters, a great patriot, who highlights the values of Slovenia and independence, said, when we sang the Poor himself, I have no one, I have no father, I have no mother, I have no dear, our sad Belarusian songs, which very much resemble the Premurje, even the white canvas is similar and deplorable molasses, he told me that he liked these songs when he thought they were Serbian. So much for knowing the white landscape among Slovenians. We're so small, but we still don't know how far we go. Ljubljana is not Slovenia. The regions are those who make Slovenia precious, important and special. The main problem of the White Land is, of course, a poor traffic link. The southern part of the development axis is planned and the state spatial plan for the section of the Malina motorway is already being developed, in preparation a project to obtain the construction permit for the eastern suburb of Cats to the entrance to the tunnel. In this way they would come directly to Croatian highway A1 and all trucks and tourists would unload this already loaded, narrow and mainly winding road over Gorjanec. They needed funds for a building permit, and even, you won't believe it, they found themselves in cohesion. But then there was a transfer from one source to another. Unfortunately, though, the promise was forgotten, and these funds went to another pipe in Shentyl. What is important to know and repeat all the time is that Pocolplej contributes about EUR 200 to 300 million per year to the state budget, which means that in 2015 and 2016 about EUR 400 to 600 million will contribute to the state budget. The Belarusians have repeatedly said that this highway infrastructure could be built on its own if they could make as much decisions as they can, but unfortunately they must contribute to other projects, finance more developed regions and participate in projects that are sometimes justified by doubts of eligibility. For more than 20 years, the White Country has been without any investment, and it is also normal for unemployment to increase. Now it's about 20%, and it's getting worse. There could be 25% unemployment, because the White Landscape was based on the textile industry: Betty Metlika, Comet, Novotex. As we know, all these companies have failed. The next wave of unemployment will be followed by the start of service activities due to an increase in unemployment due to the termination of unemployment benefits from the Employment Office, due to the negative population growth. In short, the undeniable fact is that the White Country has completely ignored the landscape and that is why we are in a totally unequal position to make investments. I don't know if you can imagine that the Blackwater industrial zone is experiencing electricity shortages. Who's going to invest in a region like this? That we are without a broadband internet connection, that we are without normal traffic connections. You know very well that all companies have a deadline for delivery and if there is a traffic jam, these companies pay for the penalty, they are not paid in such risky regions to set up their industrial plants. Not to mention, if on a narrow road across the Gorjanes at the acorn, there's a drop in the log across the road, it's a complete stop, people can't get to work, they can't get to the first hospital in New Town. In short, we're completely cut off from the world. We are the most threatened demographically, because we are witnessing the terrible fall of the population, young people are moving out because there are no jobs, there is nothing. In 1850, the Belarusians represented 3% of the Slovenian population, and today only 1.3%. But the fall is not only relative, but also absolute, as in 160 years the number of inhabitants in the White landscape declined by one fifth, while in the same period the population of Slovenia more than doubled. In 2010, Kolpa from the European Commission and the WTO received the European Destination of Excellence for the Development of Sustainable Tourism. Many people have found here a market niche to take care of themselves, to open jobs sustainable and to take large loans to devote themselves to tourism, boating, camping, culinary, wall-based tourism – but what happened? After 20 years as the only investment, we got a barbed wire. People who have been forced to take credit and repay these loans have experienced a huge decline. In some places, this wire is now replaced by a different wire, or so, you know, it can be broken manually. This fence is completely irrelevant, but it's costing so much that if this money were to invest in anything in the White Land, the Belokrans would be overjoyed. We could finally come back to life and return more calmly to the state budget. The next thing, which is completely absurd, is despite all the efforts, the visits – and I organised one such visit to the Ministry – to debate the unresolved grotesque issue of the border crossing at Vinica. Listen, if you think this is normal, colleagues and colleagues! One bridge across Kolpo at the border crossing of Vinica has a sign on the Slovenian side that trucks must not cross the loaded road, while the trucks can safely cross the same bridge from the Croatian side. So Slovenians, if we want to get our goods to Croatia, we have to work a huge circle just because of one table, which, despite all the requests, has not been able to replace the interventions to date. Perfectly ignoring the problems of the Belokrans. I must say, the Belokrans feel that they are ridiculed and stigmatized as a politically irrelevant province. If I touch the end of the Municipality of Kostel, which belongs to those with a population of over 65 years, the educational structure is among the lowest, the unemployment rate is almost 19%, and the average net salary is almost 200 euros below the national level. On the other hand, this area has enormous potential for development. Just from this point of view is one such story of Slovenia in small. It has opportunities for green and sustainable tourism, forest wood industry and so on. These are certainly extremely important potentials that should play a key role in regional development. There is also one of the purest sources of drinking water in the congregation of the Church, which has landed in the hands of the Arabs on my endless sadness. Instead of selling bottled water to Arabs, they'll sell water to us. What will happen to the quantity of exhausted water, to our groundwater, to the future of Slovenia? Many years ago, I read a book entitled The Indiscreet Will Be Thirsty. I fear that Slovenia will be hungry and thirsty, despite the fact that it is a green land, a watery country, because of such highly incompatible regional development and unwise management of natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Given that in Article 7, we are talking about the economic foundations of the indigenous national community and also about the faster development of areas where they live, of course, I would like to stress how important it is to be aware of the interests and opportunities and opportunities that people have at the border, especially where indigenous national communities live. In the case of Slovenia, Italian and Hungarian. It is also right to try to develop a programme that will allow for the further development of these areas with incentives in the period 2016-2020, as also foreseen in one of the following amendments. But in addition to these financial incentives and all the measures envisaged in this programme, I would also like to draw attention to other administrative obstacles, which will largely destroy what is being invested in these areas. Today, the colleague has already mentioned border crossings and it is quite surprising that the municipality of Osilnica, for example, is not in the area of indigenous national communities, but is at the border with the Republic of Croatia, has been literally asking for a regulation on the establishment of border crossings of the Republic of Slovenia for one year. The fact is that on the Slovenian side there is a limit of up to 3.5 tonnes of total weight and in Croatia there is a limit of up to 30 tonnes. Both countries are in the European Union and we have a regulation restricting transport across the bridge to 3.5 tonnes and from the Croatian side to 30 tonnes. When you look at the fact that the carrier on the Slovenian side also has a large part of the existence connected to the cooperation and conduct of activities for companies on the Croatian side, which is almost two kilometres away from Osilnica to Plesc. Of course, he has a very big problem when he has to do a hundred kilometers instead of two miles. With only two children enrolled this year, I would like to point out that each such measure is vital to how life in this border area will be organised and preserved. And it is amazing how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Infrastructure have not agreed for one year to amend the regulation on these border crossings. Is it such science, universal science, that we cannot agree on it? Therefore, in the general debate, when we addressed this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development, I also pointed out that we need someone within the Government who also coordinates other ministries that are obliged to respect, in particular the implementation of measures that are specifically defined in areas that have the status of problem areas. The Hungarian National Community also lives in one of these troubled areas, namely Pomurje. It is also defined as a problem area, along with White Krajina and Kočevsko, due to a very high level of unemployment. When one such administrative measure makes it impossible and difficult to say not even destroy the entrepreneurial incentive and the possibility of survival, then we really need to ask ourselves immediately whether the Ministry of the Economy, but can coordinate the Ministry of the Interior, Foreign Affairs and Infrastructure and warn them that the Asylum Office is in a troubled area and that this area must be considered as a priority. Nothing's happened in a year. And these problems of the areas are also established so that the Government can set exceptions. Even if the Government cannot adopt another regulation that is identical, for example, with what they have in neighbouring countries, Croatia, Austria, Hungary, Italy, then it makes sense to sit together and set this exception because they have a legal basis for it in the Law on the Promotion of Agreed Regional Development. So there is a legal basis, and obviously there is no one who would call all these stakeholders and tell them that this administrative obstacle needs to be removed immediately. It's been a year, you can imagine how many kilometers you have to do in one year, instead of making two hundred, and what a cost this is for this entrepreneur. All logistics, we know, depends on whether it has a sufficiently rational transport and any empty cargo is actually a net loss, a net cost. That is why I would also appeal today to the question whether the Secretary of State can answer me, whether the Ministry of Economy is the Ministry that can actually coordinate with other authorities in problem areas because they have this status under this law. If you have this mandate, then I propose and give the initiative to convene this meeting as soon as possible and to get this over with as soon as possible. As a result, there is no need for any additional resources, but of course one such administrative measure is to facilitate life in these border areas. And that's the minimum we can do right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Hainz. This debate is very heartwarming. There is a real Slovenia coming out. I can tell Mr Horvath that, for example, in the simplified law, there is one paragraph about buying, I think, in Article 7, or Article 7a, where this cross-border cooperation is explicitly mentioned. And that's what I put in there. We, for example, with Slovenians in Italy and their organisations and representatives, have been very intensively involved throughout, we have been implementing European projects for many years, which are resounding, but do not reach the general public in Slovenia. For example, one very strong project is the so-called Language-Lingua, where this language dimension extends and this also contributes to the exercise of language rights and the freedom to use languages because they are the same standards that apply here as in Italy. This was also built up outside the areas covered by international agreements, which the public does not know. That when I now drive through Trieste, in the center of Trieste I see the mayor's announcements in Italian and Slovenian – in the center of Trieste. That's one of the cases. The procedure is already provided for in the legislation and is being implemented. 500 thousand people in the Furlania-Julia landscape through their municipal councils agreed that there is bilingualness with Slovenian, including cities such as Trieste and Gorica. And that's what's happening. I'm surprised the Slovenian public doesn't know anything about this. Nor does he know anything about our problems that we have in the national communities in Slovenia with regard to the long-standing failure to implement important parts of legislation in the language field in the economic field. This story is 62 years old, but it couldn't come true. The Memorandum of Understanding could not be implemented in Yugoslavia. The fact that it is envisaged there for the Italian national community, given the arrangements it was, simply could not be achieved. The preamble to the monument mentions the general declaration of human rights. We're talking October 1954. But Yugoslavia has not acceded to the general declaration on human rights. In 1948, gulags were built here. I don't know if we can understand, while certain realities after World War II have restored democracy and won democracy and these values. This isn't where it happened. It happened the other way around. This is where one totalitarian regime was introduced, and I'm not saying that, say those who built it at the time. The economic initiative was destroyed. It was planned for us, and I was told by the people who did it and made it up and implemented it. Full education had to be expelled on a plan. It began with education, with people who were economically well placed, and it came to a common farmer and a common fisherman. The memorial is set to at least 40,000 people, not 2,000. So we have no opportunity to engage economically in the area where we live. They're just gone. What was provided was society under the control of the party. Pika. That's the truth. We are talking about this truth because it is different in the constitution because there are now other values, other options. But it has to be done. Even these stories, which I hear about typical economic activities in the White landscape and elsewhere, we do not have the opportunity to do so. These 2,000 journalists and teachers and a few other people — we have no potential, we do not have it, we just need to create it. Also for cross-border cooperation. So believe, if this starts to happen, along with the government's intention to settle the issue of purchases now allocated to create the economic foundation of national communities, but in 20 years they have not produced it because this money goes elsewhere. It's a collection for that purpose, but it's going somewhere else. If we do so, it will be possible for their activities and activities to understand and understand and relax and to implement as a fully added value the development of the places where we live. By means of means of purpose, which have always been collected for this purpose under the Constitution, but have not been effective. Slovenia is small, but it contains all the problems as if it were large. But since it's small, and since we can work things out, we can really work it out. All together, we can arrange it well and in a promising way to also give one impetus to young people to give them jobs and everything they need. This law and these instruments are intended to be adopted and implemented as necessary, and everyone will be able to do and do what they can in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Cantarutti, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Chairman. Allow me first to make a procedural proposal. In the event that business proposals are complied with, I propose that the third hearing be held at this meeting. Now let me have a few more explanations or answers to the debates that have now taken place under this seventh amendment to this law. I believe there will be more questions then, and then I would gradually answer you. First of all, I would say, Minister of Economic Development and Technology 1 hour 45, Director of the Directorate for Regional Development 1 hour 35, is still the best actually me who needs a little less than 1 hour a day in one direction to work. What do I mean by that? That we understand the problems of the regions very well, because, in fact, not just the three of us, some others, come from relatively underdeveloped areas. Therefore, believe that it would be a great pleasure, if only there were opportunities for this, to help the regions even more. However, we will also do the best we can if we are given the opportunity. But in doing so, it is necessary to take a step back, and what has also been mentioned is clear that today it appears that Slovenia is, I hope to say, but I also have to say, in one previous government not well enough not to say bad enough, negotiated when preparing an operational programme for a new financial perspective. That's clear today, maybe it wasn't there at the time, maybe it didn't look that way, but that's clear today. In particular, money for infrastructure projects is not enough for projects in the regions. Suppose, you have enough, you have good infrastructure, you have to invest now in softer content, fill this infrastructure, you just can't hold it. But we're way ahead of that now, and we need to get as much out of this as we can. This is why a very intensive debate is also taking place as regards territorial dialogue and inter-departmental dialogue as well. To refresh the memory, I believe you know this well, it is being implemented, and this has also been recorded in this operational programme, in this new financial perspective the so-called horizontal policy also of regional development, unlike the previous perspective when we had the so-called endogenous policy. In other words, if funds for regional development were previously pooled in one small area, we now have them by individual ministries. And it's true, it takes a lot of negotiation, a lot of communication. But that's what colleagues do. Thirdly, the fourth round with the ministry has been completed, and I hope that we will also come up with satisfactory solutions to find the funds that are, and this should be stressed, for individual ministries also for regional projects. And, yes, our role is, in fact, this role of coordinator and as far as territorial development is concerned, as well as the Interdepartmental Working Group, which is working for us to address administrative measures also in the so-called problem areas. I think she has met several times before, but we accept your initiative to strengthen this and try to be even more active in this area. There is something else I would like to say about cross-border cooperation. I agree, they are here because of the limitations we have in this operational programme, the fine opportunities and opportunities. At a meeting between the Slovenian and Hungarian governments, we devoted a great deal of time to this issue, and these things are now on the move. We are monitoring the situation and we will be able to report in six months, hopefully also on positive movements. The same is true in cooperation between Slovenia and Furlania, the Julian landscape. We recently agreed on one of these projects. At the beginning of July, there will also be an intergovernmental meeting between Slovenia and Italy, where one of the main points will be this, namely, the search for projects that are cross-border. Because here, as I say, I believe we have quite a few opportunities. As far as Pokolpja is concerned, we mentioned for the last time, at the first reading of this law, that the Government had adopted and confirmed the extension of the programme by 2020 also for Pokolpje. As a problem area, of course, there is not much this year, but we do have 4 million repayments and grants earmarked for Cowlopia. However, as far as priority treatment is concerned, we are also trying to remove administrative obstacles with the so-called Inter-Resort Group. Here, too, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Urosh Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Nice greetings again to all your colleagues and colleagues! The bill is mainly about regulating the public sector's presence in the so-called RRA, and I would call it a carrier, driving some regional development. The law on coherent regional development, if we look at it through history, has been amended several times. I like to believe that any change in this law leads to some progress, leads to some improvements, provides an opportunity for better, more efficient, more coherent regional development. However, if we don't take this for a lease and seriously approach it will remain, as I like to call it, the marriage itself is dead on paper. Many resources, virtually all ministries, perhaps the foreign ministry is somewhat exempt here, combine this law on coherent regional development. Therefore, there is still a need for effective and in-depth participation of all these resources, either at the moment or in a situation where the budget is running out of funds and consequently for the development of the regions, the local community is not enough or not as much as those who advocate regional development in the right sense. I'm a firm believer for the first time because I believe in these things and, secondly, because I come from the region. Besides, who doesn't come from the regions if we're being thorough? Those who have their own domain in Ljubljana also belong to a region, that is, a central Slovenian region. That is why, in my firm belief, it is necessary to end forever and forever with an unconformable, unfair development of individual regions. In other words, the distinction between regions should be stopped. We Styrians are particularly sensitive to this because it's always the hardest to be second. You know, if you're third, fifth, eighth, that's not the problem. But if you're coming from another city, in Slovenia, it's always a problem because you're not the first. Maybe there's a problem with sports competitions when you're in fourth place, when you're the first one of everyone else, and you get a so-called wooden medal, you don't get yellow metal around your neck. But if we leave these parables now, these comparisons on the side, in Maribor we are also likely to be argumentatively dissatisfied, because yet Maribor is its wider environment in the past, throughout the whole period of transition, and also today, some say that this transition still lasts, I don't know whether it lasts or not, but we always lose, we always pay the highest price. That's why we're still some advocates, and I personally, if you want, that we actually have coherent regions in our country that are advancing. I strongly share my position with all those who said that the world or this country does not stop in Ljubljana or that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana, but Slovenia is all that goes on from the Long Village to the Coast and from Koroška down to the Croatian border. In short, the whole of Slovenia. Here I think of a proverb, first of all, that the chain, if you want, is as strong or as weak as its weakest article. And if we are satisfied with the fact that we have some super-developed landscapes or super-developed parts of Slovenia, while others are captivating and others are living, while others do not have the resources for the basic tasks they have to perform for all their citizens – not least we are all citizens of a region, some, I would like in the future, the landscape – then there will be nothing to do with it. We will also be effective if we respect what we write down in our laws when drawing on European funds. And we are particularly concerned, most likely all of us, with those who belong to the Eastern cohesion region, to draw as much of these funds as possible. Why? Because we simply do not have enough in the integrated budget. However, we would like this to be the case, the third and, above all, some development projects. And especially in the face of the demographic situation, in the face of demographic projections, it seems particularly smart and opportunistic for us to use as much resources as possible for so-called active ageing, which is over 40 million by the way. We need to do everything we can to actually draw on these funds. This law also brings the strategy of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia, which is a document written quite correctly. I may be missing a little bit more corn and a little more insight, but if we follow this document step by step, we will also get to a point. Because time has not allowed me to listen to this debate here all the time, but some of my forerunners have heard that we have been talking about the provinces for many years and that we have not yet come to it. I always lose hope in the end. The proverb says the hope of the last one dies. And I haven't lost him yet. But we all have to admit together that the provinces are the solution. All we need is more determination, more courage, and above all, those who decide or decide on it need to be able to argue and interpret that the landscapes mean nothing at all but a new positive moment in the development of local self-government and even polycentric development. If we have a real wish, a sincere wish, and we want good things for the people, for all of us, and we all have, and I have already said that in the beginning, even for the inhabitants of the individual provinces, I think we must step together. As it is said, if we want to do this honestly and if we want to do this Slovenia well, if we want to benefit everyone, including Maribor or especially Maribor, if you want, then I see no reason not to come here together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Honorable Vice President and all colleagues and colleagues! In our amendment, it's about deleting the new eighth indent. In this new indent, I will quote that in the definition of the implementation of certain projects to be carried out by development agencies, the following indent is added, which also says "other similar regional activities, schemes and projects following the decision of the competent ministry under the law setting out the work area of ministries and with the consent of the Ministry". Before this indent, which allows everything and nothing, there is a whole set of things that development agencies have to do. It seems unacceptable for us to add a few points, which in fact somehow overruns all the previous ones. In this indent, it is permissible for someone to designate an operational task for a development agency which may not have any connection with the other aforesaid entities, from the level of one of the powers conferred by such or other ministries. We find this somewhat inappropriate and unacceptable. We propose that this amendment indent be deleted. Once again, in the previous indents, practically everything that is in some sense in the tasks that these agencies have to carry out is stated. And it is in some ways unacceptable for us to be added to the law of a single indent, which in some ways allows some arbitrariness and some will on the part of some ministries that have a basis in this indent to impose other tasks that are not listed in previous ones. So I propose that in this legislation, which each reads in its own way in one way or another, at least in principle, we are precise and do not allow for such exceptions, which can in practice cause a lot of problems. In the past, I think, despite not being allowed to do so, they did. We have several agencies where criminal proceedings have also been initiated. I really suggest that the coalition thinks, looks, and also asks the ministry why a dictatorship that allows some arbitrariness and some subsequent determination of individual projects, schemes, priorities, because it also runs counter to some consistency in a region where in some cases, on the basis of the previous provisions of the decisions, something can be taken, and ultimately the ministry will overrun anything. I recommend that you take this proposal in good faith. I think that experience from the past gives much weight to this line actually being deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u192	I'll say it at home. This indent means that the regional development agency, on behalf of the municipalities, must do everything that a state bureaucrat invents and the minister burns down. This is contrary to what some consider to be the executive power of the municipalities under state authority, so we have brought the mayors out of Parliament. That's not true. Local self-government is autonomous. I'll give you an example. Therefore, no ministry, no government or parliament can repeal the municipal decree. He can't. But only the Constitutional Court can do that. If it were an executive, then the government could have annulled a municipal decree or a parliament. Well, he can't. We should clear this up sometime. We have ratified the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which says that local self-government is autonomous, that this is the foundation of democracy in Europe. And we've turned this around completely differently. What colleague Prikl discussed earlier about the strategy for the development of local self-government adopted by the Government will adopt a strategy – do you understand? Not parliament. So it's true that local self-government is the 13th hole in the play, and sometimes it's said or not to say anything else. That's not true. Local government development strategies should be pursued thoroughly and Parliament should adopt a strategy, in accordance with the European Charter on Local Self-Government. We also know the opinion of officials at the Ministry of Public Administration on the provinces. It doesn't make sense, but I don't know what else is going on, it's not in Parliament, we don't need it. That is the current opinion because no one wants or is afraid of landscapes. However, due to consistent regional development, the strength of rural areas, of course. When the money runs out, it only has to stay for the center. My colleague Janko Weber knows because he also belongs to the South-East statistical region, what the regional development agency has done for the Kočevje Ribnica sub-region. Do a little bit. That needs to be changed. Not everyone can invent, let's say, we had a case when the chief of management called on the mayors to count the Roma in their municipalities. [[…]] This could be invented by the competent ministry for example for public administration and local self-government. This is not the jurisdiction of any congregation, for they have never had local offices to have mother books. Because the state never entrusted them to the congregations. Local offices and home books are an integral part of the congregations throughout Europe. When a foreigner arrives, he answers the congregation and inquires about his ancestors a hundred years ago. But he has to go to the priest and give us the most accurate information because we don't have any others. We're such a state-of-the-art. And these are not the simple things that we are discussing today. What we are doing here today is subjugating local self-government and centralisation. Nothing else. But the money is not in this financial perspective. For those bureaucrats who work there in the RRA, there'll be money. I therefore propose that this amendment of ours be supported and then the next one.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u194	Thank you, again for your word. This is a similar amendment, which in Article 10 deletes the second paragraph, because you allow one of the municipalities to acquire a majority share in a development agency. Therefore, the city’s congregations also supported this amendment or this change of law. The current law on regional development speaks in this indent of the fact that one municipality may have a maximum share of a third. Thus, a protector was given that none of the municipalities or any region in which the development agency operates is in a situation where one of the municipalities, which is likely to have a majority share by weight, cannot do so, does not take on a primate, and thus greater decision-making rights in a particular region. I think that the current law in this direction has allowed for some more democratic decision-making in individual regions, where we usually have more smaller ones besides one large congregation. In the event that this right is established in the novel that someone can practically take over a majority in a development agency, it means that, in practice, a purely practical situation can arise where the largest municipality assumes a majority role without negotiating with the other municipalities in the region. I think that this is also completely unacceptable from the point of view of the intent of this law. Therefore, we propose that this indent, which practically replaces this protector with respect to the third founding share, be deleted, so our amendment is in the direction of the proposal that this second paragraph, which allows this majority impact of the individual municipality, is deleted and that in this part the law remains in force, such as the present one, which says that each municipality has the option to take over the founding share, but up to one third. I suggest that you do not look at the investor who proposes this amendment, but that you still have little consultation and also ask about the practice of implementing this law so far, and also about the individual tasks they have had in the past, and that you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u196	Let me mention once again that this is a coherent regional development. As the colleague has already said, I do not see any agreement between this and the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, which brings together 140 mainly smaller municipalities, but only the Association of Municipal municipalities and the Community of Municipalities. Of course, the smaller congregations are also in the Community of Congregations, but they do not have a majority there. They do not have a majority in voting. The law states that when the regional development programme is adopted, representatives of the municipality have a double voting right and that so many must be present, most of them must be present. What, though, about other decisions that do not appear in the law — in implementing plans where the development agency or the director appointed by the majority owner, this is what the city municipality says, is forcing projects that are from this municipality? Are we still talking about coherent regional development when it's already so rich? For the example of our region. How should a project come first from the White Country or from the Bachelor's and Fishery Works, since representatives of the economy in the regional development world are mainly from the New City and also from NGOs in the New City, and then the municipality should have more than a third of the ownership of the RRA, in the company or in the influence of the public institution? Then how can we still talk about coherent regional development? We can argue against accepting this contrary to this intention, that it is centralisation, that we give power to the city’s municipalities, to the larger congregations. Because there's no money, we know he's gone. Ask the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia if they are in favour of, where is the majority of small municipalities that need development money, to at least follow this developmental difference that has arisen so far, and not to fall behind even further. What are we talking about today? About giving certain ratings back to major city halls. As this law changed as it drew, it changed the world of regions where only the mayors were because the municipalities financed it. Even now, only municipalities finance these projects. Not the economy, not the NGOs represented in the regional development world. Wrong world. If we support this amendment, small communities in need of development incentives will have greater power in state money to reduce development differences. We're taking him now. As we have now, I would say, misorganised these regional development agencies, so order must be made. Therefore, I propose that our amendment be supported if we are serious here.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u198	I'd like to add some more. It may seem to me that we are in a kind of pleasing way correcting this matter, but I hope that you have been other Members of the region at some point in the world, that you may have been presidents of some development agencies, because I have a lot of experience myself. And I really appeal to some reasonableness in you that you do not allow the possibility of taking advantage of a gap that we are about to introduce within the legislation, and that we give a larger congregation to essentially take over primate in the development area within one region. If we do this with the law, it is over with a coherent regional development that is already limping on the periphery. But if we, as a legislative part, were to appeal that this might happen in some way, I think it would be a very perverted and wrong signal. That congregation that is capable, even with a third share, can exercise certain rights, at least one democratic debate can be held in one such body. In case we give someone an absolute chance to take over the majority share, it's over. And it is better that we no longer talk about some law that promotes coherent regional development, but let us be honest that we are giving some lobbyists the opportunity to take over the rights and governance of such institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Any other discussions? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19b and the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Group of Ambassadors. The amendment is amended as of 14. 6. published on e-club. Anybody want to talk? Dr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your word. Have a nice hello to you all again! Just two sentences, because everything has already been said about it. On the basis of coordination, I will say at the last minute, we have come to this realization that in this part, in the transitional and final provisions, we will define the anniversary so that from 2017 to 2020 it applies to the first programme to be implemented. That's one thing. There wasn't much of a dilemma here. However, we are changing our original amendment mainly because the part that we have already said does not belong directly to this law, i.e. the funds that have been collected and collected from the purchase book, to be used in a similar programming concept as is now provided for in this coherent regional development law. But we are aware that that matter is not directly the substance of this law. As I have said before, perhaps positive experiences resulting from the provisions we are amending in this law will contribute to more successful solutions than we have seen before. As has already been said, unfortunately in the past there has been a great deal of confusion in this area. We welcome these efforts once again, our joint efforts and perhaps only in this context of providing the economic basis of the national communities can this moment be very important if these amendments, including these ones, are supported. I am sure that this will lead to, to some extent, the development of the whole area where both national communities live. So it is not just and exclusively about the economic activity of indigenous national communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 8th item of the agenda. I also adjourn the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 17.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u202	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on the resolution and forcible termination of banks by emergency procedure We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the checks on the amendments tabled of 14. 6. 2016, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 215. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 233. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 259. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 260 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 47. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 268, paragraph 1. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present and 17 votes against 37. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 268, paragraph 2. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present and 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 268.a. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour and none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that in the second reading the assembly adopted amendments to 215., 233., 268. and 268.a. of the amended draft law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. No, no, no. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 49 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are moving on to the conclusion of the legislative procedure for a proposal for a law that was not the basis for the drafting of an amended proposal for a law. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: No amendments to the Law on Banking submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Horvat, is suitable for further consideration. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will vote against the proposed decision. I repeat and express our great disappointment that our proposal for a banking law, the new Banking Act, has actually experienced a very sad undemocratic fate and an undemocratic conclusion in this house. First of all, in its proposal for a law on the resolution and forcible termination of banks in 268, the government integrated, read the copy-paste, our solution to deal with both laws, namely, the government law and the law of New Slovenia following the so-called hybrid procedure on the parent working body at the same point of the agenda. At the same meeting, the coalition came up with an amendment that outlined our solution under Article 268 of the government proposal. We tabled our bill on 21 April. A day later, we applied for a general hearing. Until this moment, ladies and gentlemen, no one has explained to us how this requirement of ten Members has been easily brought forward after the general debate. That is why I say that this is a non-democratic, even scandalous process, and we just expect that this will never happen again in the future. This is probably one of the rare cases in the 25-year history of Slovenia. In this way, colleagues and colleagues are not celebrating the great jubilee. We will therefore, of course, vote against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u204	The explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group shall be mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, President. The Modern Centre Party Group will vote in favour of the proposed proposal, but the following must be said decisively in this regard. The statement given by the representative of the New Slovenia Group in the New Slovenia Group of the Modern Centre Party is fully rejected. In particular because it has been said that the intervention has been in democratic decision-making processes. Here we must give everyone a very clear explanation of why this has occurred. The fact is that the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre has decided on the parent committee in this regard Article 268 as it is. And this decision was based on two important facts. The first fact was the position of the Government, which was based on an expert opinion and assessment of an institution called Banka Slovenije. As Members, we must be aware that in such cases it is necessary to respect the expert opinion of that institution or body which is competent and credible for the professional assessments of a particular case. Another matter that was based on our decision, as it was, is the in-depth examination and issuing of the opinion of the Legislative-Legal Service. And that is why we reiterate that the rule of law is that body of the National Assembly, which we need to take into account especially in areas where very delicate matters are. It is precisely on the basis of these two written decisions that we have assessed in the Group of Members that the decision should be taken as it is on the Committee of the Fathers. It is precisely because of that decision which is before us that the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u206	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Of course, we will also vote against the proposed decision in our Group because it is an intervention in the procedure. The second fact is that something like this happens in this national assembly, as my colleague Horvat said before me, rarely happens. And, Madam President, you may also consider that something like this should not happen in the future and that if we choose 10 signatures in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the general debate should take place. Since when is the Court’s opinion of the Bank of Slovenia, and I am also interested. But it can sometimes be with another procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u208	Any other explanation for the voice? On behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u209	In this House we have rules that are enshrined in the Rules of Procedure. This Rules of Procedure states that if two mothers are to regulate the same substance, then a hybrid can be made. It's all non-problem. But we had two different laws, not the same laws. Even with this addition, one law literally copied the article of another law. Then the government coalition decided it was the same matter, but in the next step this article deleted. And you might get over that. However, it is difficult to get over the fact that this rules of procedure also allow if ten Members of this Parliament are to sign a general debate on a subject, this simply has to happen. With this business coup, the government coalition has simply prevented the demand of ten Members for a general debate, which also belongs to ten Members on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. And here I think it is primarily the matter of the President of the National Assembly, who is the master of the proceedings in this House. And here, the President of the National Assembly could have done things a little differently in his own words. The government coalition had a much better chance. If the government of this article had not copied into its marriage, it would not have been a problem, but it would have been two different mothers. Our marriage could be denied without a problem, adopted by the government. But you didn't decide on this procedure. So I would really ask in the future that if the Rules of Procedure allow something to be done to the Members, it is also possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u210	Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is logical that I will vote against the proposal for a decision. There was a maneuver, a trick was made to silence the opposition. This trick, this maneuver was made solely because the government is in a hurry. Therefore, the law on the resolution and forcible termination of banks is a matter of urgency and is very important. And we did not oppose this law. Look at the ballot. However, until this point, no one has explained to the 10 members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia why our request for general treatment was not taken into account, why it was thrown into the basket. It's undemocratic, it's not ethical, it's scandalous. The government, in a way, is said to be the last country to implement the European directives in our legal order, of course, is facing a high penalty of money. Therefore, New Slovenia had to be silenced and the banking law proposed had to be eliminated. And yes, the legal and legal service, of course, must be respected by the profession, the legal profession. You, colleagues and colleagues of the coalition, voted an amendment and also a law where the law on the resolution and forcible termination of banks in article 268 interferes with another law, the law on banking. And yes, the Legislative and Legal Service has said that this is not at the discretion of Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, which says that Slovenia is a legal and social state. But you are fighting for such a rule of law? We're different. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u212	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you very much, President. On my own behalf, I re-emphasize that I will vote in favour of the proposed decision. However, I would like to point out this subject slightly differently than my predecessor, because I am personally in the position as a Member, that I have to abide by certain rules, if I may say so, by the principles of legality and by taking professional arguments into account, if they are available to me and if, for this purpose, they convey an opinion to those institutions that have a weight on individual decisions. And if I'm in law enforcement first. I'll point it out one more time. I thank you very much in this case, where it is a very complex matter, it is not that simple, and they have devoted themselves to this subject with great effort and effort. They wrote: "We warn that such an approach, where one law governs the content that should be regulated by another law, is controversial... "A respected colleague has already said something about this. But what I believe is that it is the duty of each of us here to take into account the following set out - points to the inability to implement the proposed regulation, because the area of non-performing claims at European Union level is not yet fully harmonised, etc. I mean, the incompetence is what the Members can't do. As for the expert opinion, I have no problem believing in Banka Slovenije's professional judgement in a particular case. And what did they write down? Regarding the proposed solution, the Bank of Slovenia has expressed a number of professional concerns. Those who want to get acquainted with this content have this type of material. That is why I can only conclude, I cannot vote in any other way than in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u214	Any other explanation for the voice? Mrs Ludmila Novak has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u215	I will vote against, of course. The point is that what we're protesting has been a violation of the rules of procedure. If the rule is that 10 Members choose signatures, the meeting shall be held. And here we cannot under any circumstances refer to the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia. The procedure has been violated, we are protesting, and of course I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u216	But now I really have to explain this matter, because five times already, ten times, something has been said that has already been answered. That's too much. The whole procedure was based on Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure. That's the first basic thing. It's a hybrid procedure. I'm only defining myself for procedural matters. This same Rules of Procedure allowed for the same treatment literally in 2012, when the draft Law on amendments and additions to the Income Act passed the draft Law on the Balance of Public Finances. On the other hand, in 2011 there was an even worse case on the basis of a provision allowing hybridity, not to say that there was no need to fix it or anything like that, even this could have been done that the general debate had already been put on the agenda and then lost its independence. So it's not unique. This allows for this rule of procedure. Business is totally fine. But I'm not defining myself to the content of what you said. The general debate was already on the agenda and was then withdrawn due to the hybrid procedure. That's how far this rule of procedure allows. It is therefore necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure. This is not a problem with the Rules of Procedure in this case. Is there any other explanation for the voice in your own name? The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Once again, I will vote against it. And, Madam President, remember what you promised the Slovenes and the Slovenians to change. And not now, if it was done five years ago, ten years ago, three years ago, it's my duty to do the same. We've collected ten signatures, and with your authority, you've overtaken this decision. Despite all the nicest things, what will be different with modern blue Mirot's client?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u218	I didn't run over anything myself, but my mother's working body on the basis of Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure. / advertising from the hall/ There is no procedural issue, but there is a procedural proposal. Procedural proposal, mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u219	Mr President, I suggest you look at the magnetogram of this meeting, where the Committee President's explanation was that the decision on this proposal was taken by the College of the National Assembly. Now let's make a deal. Who's to blame. We couldn't make any other decisions on the committee because you decided to do so at the College. That's a fact. It's also a merger. Now, ladies and gentlemen, who speaks what is true?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u220	It's a very simple matter. The college decided only on an emergency procedure. Everything continues to be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's the only decision she's made at the College. And he decided the Collegiate, not me. I can't withdraw the matter of deciding on an emergency procedure. Is there any other explanation for the vote or the procedure or anything else? No, no, no. We vote on the decision, as stated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. It reads: The draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Joseph Horvat, is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 20 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on excise duty in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 79. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 92. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the applicant has already proposed, in the introductory explanation of the draft law, that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 3rd reading of the bill will take place on Tuesday, 21. 6. 2016, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adoption of the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Law on Skiing in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 47. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 47. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 14. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 47. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 27. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 46. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Promoting Coherent Regional Development under the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities to Article 7. Mr László Göncz has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Italian Hungarian National Community Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We will, of course, support the amendment tabled, which was prepared in agreement with the Government. This coordination has taken a long time and we believe it has been successful. We also believe that, when this amendment is adopted, a system will actually be built up to provide an economic basis for indigenous national communities, at least for that part of the funds allocated on the basis of more coherent regional development. We believe that this will be the first step that can mean added value in this area, while stressing that it also means added value in terms of the overall development of the regions where the two indigenous national communities live. So on our side, the amendment will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u222	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 29. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 21 votes in favour and 46 votes in favour. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10. Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We will support this amendment because, without the support of this amendment, the law on coherent regional development is in some way without a basis. The current law allows one of the local communities as a public entity to have an impact of up to one third. We therefore propose that this second indent be deleted, this second paragraph, since this paragraph allows one of the local communities in the regional development agency to obtain an absolute majority or at least more than 50 % of the majority in the development agency. If we let that happen, you know what that means. It means that the impact of all other local communities in a region can be null and void. Someone who acquires a full majority stake in the development agency also takes decisions on behalf of others. We therefore estimate that this law, if established, is in some way completely devalued because it will no longer be a coherent regional development, but will be largely developed, we can say that large municipalities in a region that will have a clear predominance in power. However, if we make it possible for her to have a majority in a development agency, the fate of an area will be created only by the congregation concerned. This means that we can no longer talk about coherent regional development, but only about development on the basis of large ones. So I suggest you really think about it and support this amendment. This means that the dictatorship remains the same as in the current law, which prevents most individual municipalities in the development region.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u224	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 25 votes in favour and 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 19b of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Group. Mr Roberto Battelli has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of this amendment, although that part has been rejected and as a result the original amendment has been amended in the way you have before you. The second part spoke of the termination of the mechanism for the creation of an economic national community at the time of the adoption of the programme, which is envisaged within the fisheries fund, in order to simplify. This has brought nothing to the national communities in 20 years. This is a fact that is denied by everyone involved. But that's it. I know three things that were successful. Someone bought a good fishing boat from a family that's been fishing since the Kopra chronicles existed. One who rearranged a house from an old mother in the center of Kopra, in fact a small, very small dormitory with a good internet and all that, very cheap. And someone who made rubber bands in Isola, and this company is gone. I know these things that have any connection, I only know these three, with my national community. How this can contribute decisively to cross-border cooperation, I do not know. How this can contribute decisively to the promotion of the social, economic and cultural identity of the place where we live and as much as the sea. I remain convinced that it is necessary to amend the law on purchase and the funds raised there for the purpose of creating the economic basis of the national communities must also be used for this purpose through a programme that is otherwise implemented under this law. I expect that to happen. What is happening now is the collection and distribution of money outside the scope of the Privatisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u226	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 65 for whom were voted against and 3 against. [[65 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the motion for a law already proposed in the debate that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There were 72 Members and Members present, 54 votes against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Thursday, 16. 6. 2016, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Matthew Tonin will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Matthew Tonin regarding the preparation of reforms by the end of the Government's term of office. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u227	The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government. It seems important to me that after the first half of the day, in view of what is happening today, it may even seem that it will remain at the first half of the day and that the second half will not even come true if Minister Kopacheva is involved, but in this case things are irrelevant, because this debate will be meaningless. But if we are still discussing today under the assumption that the second half of this government will still happen, then I think it is absolutely imperative that this Parliament discuss the development priorities that this government is supposed to pursue in the second half of its mandate. Slovenian society faces quite a few challenges, among them certainly insurmountable demographic trends, security threats, as well as an insurmountable business environment. And on all these three key challenges facing our society, the government should come with concrete reforms following the example of other European successful countries. I certainly do not think money has been thrown aside if, at least on these issues, the development issues in this House are felt by at least some climate, so that we at least know what the political situation is about future pension reform or health reform, tax reform. Ministers, some are still studying, some are thinking, some are analyzing, some are doing a little better, some are already making some proposals that are being rejected the next day. But I think, from the point of view of ministers themselves, it would be wise to feel the political support of some reforms. Nor would it be harmful for this House, if you would also like the opposition to be very clear about whether or not it supports them or does not support them in certain matters. Of course, I am sure that this debate could also be very amusing, because some of yesterday's responses to the Prime Minister were very confident. If I use a very positive term. The President of the Government claims that this government coalition has regulated the management of state-owned enterprises. You've got to be tough to say something like that. It's just one thing to talk about. Of course, as I said, there are pension, health, tax reform as well as security reform and I invite you to support this proposal to see if you are in favour of discussing the future in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u228	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 20 votes in favour, 50 votes in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franco Laj, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Laj, on the business activities of the Slovenian State Forests, d.o.o. Mr Franc Laj has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u229	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Good-bye to all of you again. I think the topic is extremely serious, which was also not the last to be understood from the replies of the President of the Government. This means that there are many open questions, and time is extremely short. Why would we go to such a great risk if we can find a sure solution to reduce these risks. Let's see! Public orders are open, we don't know the fate of it. I am most concerned if the public procurement of individual parts in the forests is successfully completed, which I believe is possible, but very small, but there is a very large problem in the procurement of the timber tracking information system. Here the company is also bound to comply with the European Electronic Tracking Directive 995 Can an economic company be successfully operational if it does not have an information system that ensures transparent business? I don't think so. It is right to hold a debate here and to find appropriate solutions to ensure that the real foundations of this business system can be achieved, so that the new quality of governance of state forests can be transferred with full responsibility, and not least to the establishment of a forest-forest chain. In addition, I would like to point out that it is not yet appointed as a Supervisory Board. I think that this is a rational solution to the debate and not least to be presented with backup scenarios if anything breaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u230	Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u231	Dear President, in this case I will not confirm or vote on the proposal to deal with this in plenary because I think we are mixing corporate governance, executive power and, on the other hand, legislative authority. We have also addressed this subject on the Committee on Agriculture, and in some ways have also been familiar with the activities involved in setting up this company. I think that matters are proceeding in accordance with the dynamics envisaged, and I think that this law is a good law and the implementation of the law takes place as provided for in the law and as provided for in this law. I think that this concern, which has been raised by a fellow Member, is unnecessary and that is why this debate is not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u232	Is there any other explanation for the voice in your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u233	That was in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u234	Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Ranc, it's nice to believe we only have 15 days until 1 July. What colleague Laj said about the information system, if we just look at the draft contract, where it says, 1. 7. The information system will have to work. The date is entered into the contract, but the contract has not yet been signed. Does anyone believe that? Do you believe, fellows, that this will be realized.? Do you know how long it takes? A few months to train the information system. That's what the concessionaires said in practice. I don't know what this ruse is about. We've got 15 days till 1. Seven. Concessioneers don't know what's gonna happen to 1. Seven. I spoke to the director myself, who has 120 employees out of 180, who are exclusively tied to cutting and harvesting in the state forests. Four concessionaires announced voluntary liquidation. You're talking here about how it's gonna be 1. 7. everything worked. They're talking about some kind of backup. 15 days before that date, no one tells us what a backup option is. Not that he just doesn't tell us, not even the performers. A thousand 300 employees will be out of work on 1 July. The procurement procedures themselves have first possible appeals to the conclusions, then they have to make tenders, then the audit can be to the selected operators and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u236	Mr Franz Leigh has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u237	Thanks again for saying that. Comrade Ranc, I don't think I need to get instructions from your side on corporate governance. It is a matter of taking into account the provisions of the law adopted by the National Assembly. And if we look closely, we will see that not all the provisions have been fulfilled in accordance with Article 30, paragraph 9, of the Law, so that I will not continue to mention them. I just wanted to take a good look at this spare option, the scenario for the benefit of this law, for the benefit of the entire forest and forest chain. It's about knowing what's waiting for us to know what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u238	You will vote in favour. Mr Ivan Škodnik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u239	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Of course, I had to stop by because I wanted to explain very briefly. The leadership of this state-owned company has, of course, formed, is somehow determined. The Supervisory Board is in progress, and I think it will be confirmed soon. I'm sure the woods won't cut with July 1st, that's for sure. There'll be a delay. But even if there's a month or two delay, I don't think the world is going to collapse, because wood is being cut anyway mainly in winter time, and even then it's the most permanent if I say so. Don't wave, I'm telling the truth. I am optimistic and, therefore, I will not support this question of Mr Franco Lai by voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u240	We're done explaining our voice. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 41. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Mrs Jelka Godec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mrs Jelka Godec's question on violations of legislation. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u241	It is my job to explain the question or request for a debate submitted yesterday by Mrs Jelka Godec. However, she referred to the government's assessment of how Anja Kopač Dark, Minister of Labour, performs her tasks. Yesterday we heard from the proposer, that is, by Mrs Godec, who listed a series of mistakes, a series of violations of laws, a series of other things that marked this mandate, where Mrs Kopač Mrak is the head of this ministry. So she listed from the valuations, debt write-offs, scholarships to the deficit professions, family legislation and more. The Prime Minister's response was very interesting. The Prime Minister of the Government recently sang to the Minister how well he is doing. Right now, I am reading that the Modern Centre Party decides whether or not to support it. So for the viewers, not for you who are "acting" as they say, I have to say that yesterday it was from the mouth of the President of the Government that the Minister is doing excellent work, that the Minister is doing well, a young man would have put a red carpet in front of the National Assembly if he had listened only to the words of the President of the Government. But what happened overnight, that's what the Modern Center Party thinks today, and I don't know. A bowl, I'd say, that's all. So that's the problem. Of course, it must also be made very clear in the context of tomorrow's debate that the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs have created a type of irregularity, which is also linked to what we will talk about tomorrow at the interpretation. We had a series of meetings in the National Assembly, including a petition commission, where we asked the Minister very clearly what were the reasons that the elderly parents could not have children. We were told that this is classified information, that it is classified information, information that is in the interest of children, etc. Then we closed the session to the public — and what did we learn? The secretary of state said she had nothing to say. Well, that's why we closed the meeting. In this context, we will probably continue this debate in one way or another tomorrow. We believe ourselves, in view of the situation as it is, because it is not until tomorrow that a decision should be taken on the subject. We will, of course, support the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u242	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 46. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 46.]] And I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. On the question of the flat-rate taxation of the agricultural economy, Mr Žnidar, on the question of Mr Žnidar. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Chairman. I asked Mr Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, why the Ministry is actually avoiding flat-rate taxation of small farms, because we know that larger farms have their business activity registered as espei or as part of them, and they do not have these problems. Small farms with one or more complementary activities registered have problems. There are many bureaucratic barriers to taxation by issuing the accounts themselves according to complementary activities. Just imagine a farm with several complementary activities, where there must be several registered premises, they must also have more cash registers, then also reporting and certifying all these accounts within ten days. Here bureaucracy is very extensive and in fact on these small farms, not to say that it goes beyond the basic activity, it is called farming itself. The taxation of small farms is more or less catastrophic and small farms need to be unloaded and more appropriate ways to be found here. The Minister did not give any concrete answers to how these things could be regulated and actually allowed small farms to focus on most farming or their survival, rather than on the bureaucratic process required by such small farms. As this covers a large part of the Slovenian countryside, there are many problems, many administrations, and I propose that public debate be held to improve the situation in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u244	We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 44. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mahnič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of Mr Jana Mahnič on activities in the search for chemical and murder funds from the State Security Service. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 47. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate T. Vatovec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dušan Mramor, and the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič, to the question of Mr Mate T. Vatovc, on the role of the Government as SDH Assembly, the construction of a second track and the exchange of the Port Koper Supervisory Board. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u245	Thank you, Mr. President. The reason for the question to the ministers was announced the exchange of supervisors in Luka Koper. The most controversial name is Mr Jürgen Sorgenfrei, who is a long-standing port representative in Hamburg. The problem here, of course, is how the government actually implements what is enshrined in the SDH Act and also in the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy. I claim that this appointment is directly contrary to the SDH Act itself, Article 4, which clearly describes the management objectives that suggest the growth of companies with the capital investments of a country that suggest special care for strategic investments, is contrary to Article 7, which also refers to exceptions to the principle of independence, in particular Article 21, which clearly defines who may be appointed to supervisory authorities of companies in which the State has its capital investments. In particular, I am talking about paragraph four, which clearly states that supervisors can be called only by people who, in their work and decision-making, are independent and capable of taking into account, in particular, the welfare, the interest of society and subject to any other personal or similar circumstances, and are also not in possible conflicts of interest. Why do I give these two indents of this paragraph of the SDH Act? In 2012, the port of Hamburg commissioned an OECD study in which Olaf Merk was sitting, which was later a member of that study commissioned by the Government regarding the construction of the second track. In this study experts wrote that Luka Koper in Slovenia is a serious competition for Hamburg for its backseat market in Hungary and Slovakia. Olaf Merk and Mr Sorgenfrey are therefore in some connection. In addition, Mr Sorgenfrei has been working with the Hamburg port for more than 20 years, which, of course, clearly indicates a conflict of interest. So I asked what the role of the Government in ensuring and also implementing the SDH Act is, in fact, harmful moves that SDH has been taking lately. Let us remember the NLB name, what is now happening to Luca Koper, and of course there are many more of these cases. I think this is a question that is now beyond just Luke Koper's question, but actually about how SDH is actually doing what should be its task. For this reason, I propose that a general debate be held on this issue, and the United Left Group will vote in favour of such a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u246	We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 10 for them and 37 for them. [[Ten votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matjaž Hanžka, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate in the next meeting on the response of Mr Karl Viktor Erjavc, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to the question of the question of the delegation, Mr Matjaž Hanžk, concerning the administration of sanctions against the Russian Federation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u247	Thank you very much, President. I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs what the Slovenian position on the continuation of sanctions against Russia is. I was particularly interested in whether Slovenia insists and will insist that sanctions continue, as they have so far been, whether we are willing to slow down and in some way trade, in quotations, by lowering sanctions in terms of improving the situation in Ukraine, Russia and so on. In this regard, I was particularly interested in whether Slovenia is prepared to support the proposal of the German Foreign Minister, who would be in favour of gradually lifting sanctions or supporting Italy, Hungary, Austria and some other countries which increasingly oppose these sanctions. Above all, in the United Left we oppose any sanctions because they are largely non-functional. We can look at the most well-known sanctions for 50 years, sanctions by Cuba to throw away a regime that the United States has not enjoyed. They haven't dropped this regime in 50 years. The other thing is that sanctions make people poor in that country against which sanctions are imposed. We can give Cuba a case. As a rule, sanctions strengthen the power of the political oligarchy in that country against which they are intended. We are therefore convinced that sanctions need to be phased out. I propose that this be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u248	We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present and 5 were voted against and 42 were present. [[There were five votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen to the question of the mission, Mr Ljub Žnidar, regarding the planned taxes when changing the destination of the land. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Chairman. The current government, the government of Mira Cerar, will surely be remembered after one basic activity, this is after the introduction of new and new taxes. With the planned new taxation at the Ministry of the Environment and Space with the change in the destination of land, we can say that this is a bar in further development, a bar in the acquisition of new potential investors, in new investments both in an individual sense and in terms of acquisitions in the development of the economy itself. The new land rent will certainly undermine the possibility of preparing land for a new development potential, as well as the so-called compensatory contribution, which will be a tax on the value of the difference between the land itself and the modified land, says the walled land. This will be an additional tax that will significantly undermine the construction plots themselves and thus significantly undermine the investment, any investment on some land. This is a developing bar, this is not a contribution to openness and the acquisition of new potential investments. This is a measure that will have a negative impact. Slovenia, and it is not attractive to introduce this tax at the time of the change in the destination of land, and Slovenia will be even less attractive to any investment. This is not encouraging for the future, of course, and the country will not actually experience any development from this title. I am absolutely against the introduction of new taxes, and therefore I propose that a public debate be held on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u250	We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present and 14 votes against 43. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zdravko Počvalska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the draft agreement for the development of the region in Pomurje. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, of course, I will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision. In accordance with the law on the promotion of coherent regional development, several hours ago we discussed the amendment of this law, the regional development programmes are being implemented through an agreement for the development of the region concluded by the Minister responsible for regional development, Mr Zdravko Počvalšek, and the President of the Development Council of the region. The agreement for the development of the Pmurje region in the period 2016-2019 includes three regional and two sectoral projects, firstly: the Mura River Biosphere Area, secondly: B Water System Upgrade, thirdly: Pomurje – a socially responsible region, fourthly: Construction of regional municipal infrastructure and fifthly: Regional Rescue Centre. I asked Mr Restovalska what will be the financial structure or financial resources to co-finance the implementation of these projects in Pomurje. I also asked, given the information, and given the well-known fact that the ministries in question simply do not have enough money, what will be the time dynamics in financing the post-moral development projects. All of us have a mouthful of consistent regional development, and the fact is there is no money. The fact is that there is no money, and this is especially felt by the peripheral Slovenian regions. Colleagues and colleagues, I think it would be very urgent to appeal to those who think similarly to hold the necessary debate on coherent regional development. This is not just the Pmurje region, it is actually all those regions that are lagging behind as I said in the debate on the previous item, perhaps for two or three decades for the central Slovenian region. Of course, there are numbers to testify to, I don't think so. I will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u252	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 41. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 41.]] And I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, the assembly will decide on the next draft of the decision.The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Anton Peršak, to Mrs Anje Bah Žibert's question on ensuring the implementation of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 46. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 46.]] And I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Krivac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and the premises of Irena Majcen regarding the provision of anti-float security. Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Madam President! I myself will support this decision as well as the entire parliamentary group, because with every reply from the Minister regarding the provision of flood safety, I find that in this area we have come from the rain under attack. I note from the Minister's replies that she does not know to what extent she is responsible for this area. In some ways, it mixes both investment and regular maintenance in all responses. In view of the fact that the Government has adopted an action plan in its documents, where it has committed itself in 2015, 2016 and 2017 to regularly maintain watercourses and restore all anti-floating measures to at least EUR 25 million, and at this time the Government is providing EUR 4.2 million for this activity, I wonder whether the Minister is ripe for recall. Since you have suspended the Minister of Culture because she has not complied with some of the government's decisions, I wonder in this case whether the documents adopted by the Government are binding on one ministry and for another ministry is irrelevant. It should be known that in the past, between 6 million and 8 million were kept regularly for these purposes, and not so much this year. The document adopted by the Government speaks of providing EUR 25 million. The Minister does not even distinguish between regular maintenance and the obligations that exist in this document with investment investments in the flood security of the Lower Sava, which, as I said, is an investment thing, and has been defined in previous documents. Because I find that the Minister does not know what I am talking about at times, and because I believe that flood safety is important for the whole country and that the Members who have endorsed these documents in the coalition will also adopt an action plan and also swear on all committees that there is something to be done in this area, in fact, responsible when the damage on the watercourses increases, but we will not do anything in this direction. The Minister's response to one of my questions was that the resources that would ensure this maintenance would be found at the end when they analysed the needs. Is that what you imagine? Thus, we will first wait for the floods to take place, and then we will find out how much resources would be needed to prevent these floods. I think it's time for us to have a serious debate or take responsibility for the Minister's answers or for her failures.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u254	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Zdravek Počivalska and Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen to the question of Ms Violet Tomić on the provisions of the CETA Agreement which allow for the award of concessions for the use of natural resources, including water, for commercial purposes and for the protection against the privatisation of water resources in the Republic of Slovenia. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u255	Thank you for your word. Currently, the National Assembly is engaged in the incorporation of water into the Constitution. This enjoys considerable support for the public, and I am pleased that there is also quite a consensus among Members on this and we can expect this to be recorded in the autumn. But these good intentions can be threatened after the signing of the trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, known as CETA. This agreement speaks of water in three paragraphs on almost a thousand 600 pages of the legally refined text. In the first paragraph, it is said that water in its natural state is not a commodity. In the second paragraph, it says that nothing in CETI commits signatories to allowing commercial use of water. But in paragraph 3, it's the rabbit. It reads: "As long as the signatories are already allowing commercial use of water, all the provisions of the agreement, including the ICS mechanism, apply to water." Slovenia has already granted several water supply concessions and commercial use of water resources, such as foreign multinationals such as Heineken, and this is defined in the provisions of CETE as an investment. So the interests of capital will hit quickly with the interests of the supply of drinking water for the inhabitants, and can happen to us as we say in Estonia, which the private investor is suing. Why? Because Estonia did not allow the price of water supply to rise, the multinationals now demand EUR 10 million. We also have such a case in Slovenia. For example, the municipality of Laško has to pay a multinational €3.7 million due to a superficial concession contract. In short, these things happen to us. And I don't know if then Slovenia will even be allowed not to grant concessions or not to extend concessions once they have expired. As this measure could also be considered discriminatory by multinationals and could trigger an arbitration dispute under the auspices of the ICS. Since the ministers are blindly trusting those who negotiate our water on our behalf, and most of all because the Minister of Environment and Space yesterday answered my question freely that she sees no connection between waste water, groundwater and drinking water, I think our drinking water is in great danger. Years ago, I read the book The Indiscreet Will Be Thirsty, That's over 20 years old, and I'm afraid the water will be roaring past us, and we'll be paying for it dearly, say, to the Arabs. Therefore, I ask you to support the proposal for a debate and we will be in the United Left [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u256	We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 11 votes in favour and 41 votes in favour. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Anžeta Logar will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of mags. Anzeta Logar concerning SDH's human resources policy. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present and 14 votes against 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič on the question of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik in connection with the slow resolution of economic disputes. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 13 votes in favour and 43 votes in favour. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Dr Dusan Mumorr's reply to the question of mags. Andrej Širclj on the proposal for tax changes. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of his term of office, Minister Maramor announced changes in tax legislation in the light of the relief of those who contribute the most, saying those who contribute the highest added value or the higher added value than the average in Slovenia. This would increase the international competitiveness of work, thereby increasing the competitiveness of Slovenian companies, thus ensuring greater economic growth and, of course, greater employment and the well-being of people. Minister Maramor has twice proposed amendments and these changes in the field of tax legislation have both been rejected mainly by employers, according to the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and the representatives of workers, which means by trade unions. I think it's important to help Minister Marble here. Helping him to draw up guidelines on what he will do with this tax reform or with these tax changes, especially in view of the fact that we will have a competitive economy. It is therefore necessary to hold a debate and, in this debate, to look for opportunities for both employers to be satisfied with them, a true chamber, such as those working on the other hand, is a union. I think that this consensus on tax legislation is possible. Minister Marble did not give any answers, nor did he answer whether because he had been rejected twice or rejected his tax reform, he was serious. Because he's proposing things that the unions and the chambers refuse. For this reason, I propose that a general debate be held on this answer. This will also discuss how to make the tax system more competitive, how to help the economy, thereby increasing economic growth, reducing unemployment, increasing people's well-being. That's what I think is in the best interest of all of us. I therefore propose that we hold a general debate on this answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u258	We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 47. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič asked Dr. Vinko Gorenak about the investigation of suspected bank crime. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u259	Thank you very much. This proposal, which you quoted, will be supported by the Group of Members. For the introduction, let me mention three statements. The first statement concerns the prosecutor, Mr Kozino, who made it very clear a year ago that the first judgments in Slovenian courts may fall within 15 years in connection with banking crime. He couldn't predict the result. A few days ago, the Director of the National Investigation Office, who said that it was not clear what would establish judicial practice and that it was unclear whether anyone would be convicted. A few days ago, we had a prosecutor's report, and there Mr Harij Furlan, the head of the specialized state prosecutor's office, said something very similar. From all of this we can draw one pessimistic reality of our future that no one will answer for a 5 billion-dollar bank hole. Nobody. This is also confirmed by the fact that three bankers who gave Simoni Dimic that remarkable loan to the former chief of staff of the former Prime Minister were forgiven days ago. But, see, Iceland is in some ways also a small country, smaller than Slovenia, I think by the number of inhabitants. This country has faced exactly the same problem about three years before us. And an interesting situation, their main investigator, who also visited Slovenia last year, Eva Joly, mentioned, among other things, how they were doing in Ireland. In three and a half years or so, the Irish put it under lock and key if they so called it whether they had convicted about 80% of the bankers who had granted these bad bank loans. Also interesting is her statement that the investigators, that you should be careful here in the middle, have received inappropriate offers from bankers for well-paid jobs. How was it with Roc Praprotenik, who you joyfully supported or rejected our proposal for conclusions? We propose to hold a debate on this subject, one serious debate that would answer the question, if we can get anywhere near the situation in Ireland, it is said that we will then bring the relevant state authorities before the courts or prisons of the people who have caused the 5 billion-dollar bank hole that costs every citizen of Slovenia EUR 2 000500. We'll support the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u260	We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Luka Mesca, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zdravko Počvalska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to the question of Mr Mesca's question on deregulation of the prices of petroleum products. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u261	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! In the National Assembly, we have been talking for a long time about deregulation of oil derivatives prices, which means that the fuel prices margins would no longer be fixed, but they could be determined by distributors themselves. Both the analysis of Death and the analysis of the Ministry of Finance have shown that the effects of this measure would be negative, both for the budget that would suffer the fallout, according to some estimates, up to EUR 100 million can be said for consumers, all of us, because they would pay more fuel than for the economy – for the same reason. In April, however, the ministry experimentally deregulated the prices of 100-octane, 98-octane gasoline and fuel oil and the assumptions or fears we have against us have proved to be justified. The prices of these fuels, mainly 100-octane and 98-octane, increased more than the price of 95-octane fuel remaining regulated. We have therefore taken the initiative in the United Left to meet with the Committee on the Economy, at which it was decided that the Ministry should monitor price developments by the end of the year and then, on the basis of an analysis, decide how to proceed with these measures. This decision has also been confirmed by members of the coalition. But now Minister Restoration is apparently continuing with the complete deregulation of fuel prices, despite the fact that we have only two months' practice and that this does not match his expectations, but ours. I asked the Minister why it continued despite the practice and despite the Committee's decision. I have not received an answer to this, so I would like to ask you to hold a general debate on this and to show whether deregulation of fuel prices is really a meaningful measure and who would really benefit from it. We are concerned that he will benefit solely and exclusively from oil distributors, according to the Slovenian case of the duopolist Petrol and Istrabenz, who will increase their profits and we will all be in harm's way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u262	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 39. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Zvonk Lah's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Mr Zvonk Lah on the issue of State-owned forest management concessions. Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u263	My question was similar to that put by colleague Laj to the Prime Minister or Minister. That the President of the Government could not answer, it is clear to me that this is a rather specific question and technical matter. But the Minister of Agriculture should know the answer. Let me add to that previous debate that the Agricultural Land Fund is on behalf of this company 29. 3. published the invitation to tender: Ensuring the competence of future operators. The time limit for the submission of tenders was 5. 5. A few days ago, perhaps for a maximum of one week, the conclusions were sent to more than 500 applicants, and not all of them had even raised their mail, so even the emergency room was sent to pick up. It's about skills. Those who do not have a positive decision may complain about this decision. It would be fair to get rid of these complaints. The Fund shall then submit tenders for these four tenders if we consider the first non-collectively binding for the information system and then decide and select among the hundreds of operators for the transport of forest-wood ranges from forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia for the period from the conclusion of the agreement to 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Listen, until 31st. 12. 2016! The same for the construction and maintenance of forest infrastructure, the same for cultivation and protection works up to 31. 12. As far as I know, it is mainly fruit that is carried out in the spring, unless also foresters have green work as vine growers and harvesting then in the autumn. It's all up to 31. 12. I'd understand it's about the work that's been going on since 1. 1. 2017 onwards, these procedures could be carried out. John said earlier that he probably wouldn't cut himself for three months. Then all this fuss for three months by the end of this year, but in the meantime, it can still be three months of winter. What are we doing? If there is a spare option, they should give it as soon as possible. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-14-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u264	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 43. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
