ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Andreja Potočnik, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Marija Bačič by 3 p.m., Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 17 p.m. on, Dr Milan Brglez from 17 p.m. on, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Andrej Čuš and Mr Igor Zorčič from 13 p.m. on. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State to the 7th item of the agenda, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac to the 9th item of the agenda, the representative of the Council to the 10th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday, 19 February 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 16th session should be extended by 9 a.m. by a decision declaring a decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which was adopted on 20 December 2015. You received a notice on the proposal for enlargement on Thursday 25th. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Would you like to talk about the proposal to extend the word to representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. That's what we're gonna decide. So we're moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, this meeting will be discussed by the assembly today immediately following the establishment of the agenda. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference, and a follow-up adopted. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 16th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We are moving on to the 9th A-point of the agenda, which is on the basis of a decision on the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Amendments to the Law on Legal Relations and Social Dimensions, which was 20. This Decision shall enter into force on On 19 February 2016, the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia published the report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which was held on 20 December 2015. It follows from the letter from the Supreme Court of 24 February 2016 that no complaint was lodged against the State Election Commission’s report within the legal time limit and that the report published in Official Journal No 13/2016 on 19 was lodged. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Given that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 53b of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative within 8 days of the legality of the State Election Commission report, has to announce the decision taken at the referendum, I sent you a decision on 24 February 2016 to announce the decision taken at the referendum. On the basis of Article 53b of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that the National Assembly took note of the following decision: The National Assembly declares that at the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, adopted on 20 December 2015 on the basis of the Decree of the National Electoral Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, adopted by the voters, as found in the report of the National Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia on 13/2016 of 19 January 2016. 2. 2016, namely that more than one fifth of all voters and voters who had the right to vote were voted against, which, in accordance with Article 90(4) of the Constitution of Slovenia, means that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 3 March 2015, was rejected at the referendum. Thus, the decision taken at the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations was announced. [[Applause]] I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Conclusions on the reinstatement of the function of a Member and on the termination of the function of a Member under Article 14 of the Law on Members. The Government forwarded the decision of 25 to the National Assembly. 2. 2016, from which it appears that mag. Margareti Guček Zakošek with 29. 2. 2016 terminates the function of Secretary of State in the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The Government's decision was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, which, pursuant to Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes to the National Assembly that it be informed, pursuant to Article 14 of the Law on Members, of the following decisions: First, the National Assembly on the basis of a Government decision of 25. 2. 2016 concludes that mag. Ms Margareti Guček Zakošek has ceased to serve as State Secretary in the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, so today she is re-entering the post of Member of Parliament. Second: Mr Saša Tabaković, who served as a Member instead of a Magi. Margarete Guček Zakošek, at the time she served as Secretary of State, ceases to serve as Member today. We are moving on to the consideration of the conclusion on the termination of the mandate of the MPs of the National Assembly of Mags. Margareti Goochek Zakoshek. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that I am a member of the Magi. Margareta Guček Zakošek 25. 2. 2016 notified that by 29. 2. 2016 departs from the function of the Member of Parliament. I note that, as of today, in accordance with the sixth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members and the third paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the term of office of a Member shall expire. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the National Assembly, which candidate will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, instead of a Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Council of Ministers will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandate and report on its findings to the National Assembly. I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, 1 / 1 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Government, distinguished colleagues! In the past few days, a number of protests took place after Slovenia. A protest in Shenchure, a protest in Lenart, a protest in Vrhnika. These protests against migrants have been very dignified. There was a very large participation of young people who responded to what the Government intended to do. There was also a protest in Ljubljana on Saturday, where both those who support the entry of migrants into Slovenia and those who oppose it were present. From what has been seen in Ljubljana, it is clear that one part of these dignified protests was to continue the expression of people's will in these protests, and on the other hand we had a group of people in which the former politicians, the former President of the Republic, as well as the current Members, unionists who were under threat were present. These protestors were masked, their identity was not visible, and they were armed with one stick, the other with special gloves, which included boxers. The Prime Minister of the Government reacted very strongly to these very peaceful protests in these places, saying that he was very harsh, very critical of those who were performing and who protested, while this protest of masked, armed protestors went completely over, in some way without the response of the Prime Minister of the Government. I would call on the Government to propose a meeting of the National Assembly to address this deviant phenomenon in the wake of this increase in the threatening left-wing extremism. After all, these protests, where the politicians of the current coalition and former Prime Minister of the Government were present, also took place with a very strong emphasis on the symbols of the former totalitarian regime. I propose, Mr President, that you address to the President of the Government the initiative that the Government should only propose some material where such a should be, I will say, an undemocraticly organised protest and the expression of this left-wing extremism will be addressed at the plenary session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u3	I'll answer first, and then I'll put it on the other one. In your case of calls, it is an abuse of the procedural question, because, for the first time, you do not refer to anything in this Rules of Procedure, secondly, it was possible to announce this issue by 12 o'clock yesterday. This could be dealt with under the item on procedural matters where each Member may ask a question in writing or orally. At this point, where we are at this meeting, this was certainly possible, and therefore no procedural issue had to be misused in order to raise a question or a call. Procedurally, Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much, chairman. My procedural proposal would be to reject this proposal from which Mr Tanko came to the table. I took part in a Saturday meeting to defend the hospitality of people who were driven out of their homes by war. I was in the front lines of this meeting, and, for the first time, I wasn't disguised or disguised, and for the second time, I didn't see anyone possessing any weapons. That way I can say firsthand that Jože Tanko, SDS, is lying like a dog running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u5	Since I have already answered the question, I do not understand why this was necessary procedurally. In this case, too, it is an abuse of the procedural position. I'm moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. There is no abuse of the procedural proposal. The procedural proposal shall always be addressed to the President and shall be told what and how to propose or take action in a particular case. That's exactly what I did. That's right. I have addressed to you the suggestion that in the event of these extraordinary events that some protestors have enjoyed — those who do not believe that it is true to look at the photographs. Some of you were photographed there in a company of masked persons and armed, I don't know, with cold weapons, a boxer and the like. I think there is no problem that the Government, acting so proactively when it comes to condemning some peaceful protest in Shenchure, Lenart or Vrhnika, will react strongly to the Government's actions here and condemn such behaviours that arouse very negative people's reactions and increase people's fear, particularly in the light of this migratory crisis that is now being predicted, and what they expect the Government is trying to bring to the Republic of Slovenia over all the arrangements. Mr President, the proposal has been very correct. It stands because it is verifiable, documented, so I propose that this be addressed to the Government, to the President of the Government, and that the Government prepare the material as soon as possible, where these extraordinary phenomena will also be dealt with. The police were there, they could have acted differently, that is to say, they could have removed those persons who were disguised and armed from the protest. She didn't do it. I think that the proposal for such an initiative is more than put in place and very much needed, because the situation in which we are is, in some way, to be settled, exceptional cases, even if it is left to the left, members of the left-wing province and the policy of the left-wing political definitions, are condemned because they pose a great security threat and are actually encouraging violence and not to calm the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u7	I'm going to answer this first procedural question before I give you the next one. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, paragraph 240, first paragraph: "Any Member may ask the Government or individual minister or the Secretary-General of the Government a question or give an initiative to regulate individual matters or to take certain measures in the field of the operation of the Government or of the individual ministry or government service." Second paragraph: "The questions sent may be oral or written. Emissary initiatives can only be written." On this basis, I conclude that I do not have the role of mediator for what Members can do on their own, and I insist that this is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Procedurally, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. A third of the term of office has passed and in this third term we have witnessed frequent cases of abuse of such a question. I am the new Member, but I know that the Rules of Procedure are interpreted by the President, not Mr Tanko, not Franz Duck, not anyone. My procedural proposal is that after a third of our term of office we finally start to stick to the rules of procedure and give no one the possibility of such abuses and in fact an additional minute, which is not possible in terms of the rules of procedure. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u9	On the 1st item of the agenda, I received 45 questions from Members of Parliament in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to the question in no more than five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Mr Karel Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and Mr Zdravko Restovalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, apologized for today. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. The first question will be asked by the Magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u10	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! There's probably no particular conclusion if I say the climate in the country is bad. If I go back a little bit back in the '90s, namely, to December 1990, and to plebiscite itself. I must admit that I was very moved by the recent broadcast on TV Slovenia, which showed in what atmosphere, how enthusiastic and joyful the whole nation was at that time celebrating the results of plebiscite. No matter, left, right, young, old – all generations of Slovenian people were looking forward to a new future. After 25 years, however, it seems that this joy has escaped somewhere, that enthusiasm, that this joy is nowhere else. When You Talk to People — What Is the Problem? If you look at the statistics and find that, for example, the average salary in 1990 was 304 euros, today there is a thousand euros, you will find that the statistical conditions have improved. But the satisfaction of people, the hope, the belief in the future, has diminished significantly. And we can easily see that the sense of injustice or the sense of double standards is what the state is destroying us daily. People feel like they don't have the same rules. As a result, the institutions of the state do not respect each other; we have a number of such cases. And then you have similar extraordinary cases that further strengthen this conviction. For example, if someone damaged the country for 100 million euros, they were sentenced to seven years and the other to 200 euros in bribes for 3 years. Or – the secretary of state for pate leaves, while ministers remain despite the additions. All of this creates a sense of injustice. What should we think today when people responsible for the Slovenian bank hole take up key positions at the New Ljubljana Bank in the Slovenian state holding company? What message does the Government give to humans? That's why I'm asking you, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government: What will you and your government do personally to hold the Slovenian bank hole accountable? It seems that all over the world, some just punishment can be achieved. Iceland has been exposed several times. As it turns out, you are not able to do this in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u11	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for your question. In particular, the Government has adopted a series of systemic solutions in relation to the so-called bank hole and in general through corruption. Let me put them first. These solutions will make it possible to deal more effectively with this problem. In 2015, last year we adopted the Anti-Corruption Programme 2015-2016. Measures include measures relating to a bank hole to identify past corrupt practices in banking transactions and to prepare suitable grounds for their prevention and detection. Another time. In the first half of 2015 a new Banking Act was adopted. This has regulated access to data protected as bank secrecy. This law provides that the bank must provide data protected as bank secrecy if the data are required in writing by the Commission to prevent corruption or are required in writing by the Prosecutor's Office, the Court or the police for the purpose of carrying out the pre-trial or criminal proceedings. The law also contains a provision on the system of notification of breaches in the bank. Third time. 27. 1. 2016, so in January this year, the amendment of the Law on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which establishes an indicative duty for persons with a legal relationship with DUTB. These persons will have to report to the detection authorities any offence they have been informed of or otherwise have been committed in connection with the bank receiving the measures. The Ministry of Finance regularly receives data from the DUTB regarding allegations of criminal offences or finding irregularities. A total of 44 irregularities were detected by DUTB by the end of 2015 and internal investigations were initiated in these cases, and in four of the five cases these investigations also showed signs of crime, and appropriate complaints were made here. Let me also mention that Banka Slovenije has also established a special inspection group dealing with this area. Of course, this is not within the power of the Government, so let me proceed with the next action. The Ministry of Justice is preparing amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, which will facilitate, inter alia, the prosecution of criminal offences committed under the banking system. And that goes in the direction of finding out what you asked. Then I would also point out, six times, that the Government has now taken care of one of the largest human resources reinforcements in the current period, i.e. in the last period since 30 new prosecutors and prosecutors swore in September last year, it is said that this has also greatly strengthened the prosecution's species. And last but not least, the Government of the National Assembly has tabled a proposal for a law on systematic investigations of projects of State importance. The purpose of this law is to allow for a comprehensive and relatively short period of time the preparation and implementation of projects of state importance, to which the so-called TES 6 belongs not only, but also the creation of a bank hole and so on. The government has therefore adopted regulatory and concrete measures last year and this year and is continuing to do so. I would say so, your interpretation that in Slovenia, as you said, I will say somehow like you that there is little joy in Slovenia or that there is no joy in it that joy has disappeared. That's your interpretation. And these interpretations, honourable Member, poison the atmosphere among the Slovenians. There is still much joy in Slovenia, but there are also many concerns and doubts. This is because in recent years all these irregularities have accumulated, which even in the past governments, and we know who has been in past governments, have not been discovered. The bank hole was created, we know, about ten years ago. I have now talked about the measures we are now taking in 2015 and 2016 to identify the perpetrators and those responsible for it. That's why I find it hard to agree that there are double criteria or something. This government is working, dealing with exactly what you've asked, how we're going to expose these events from the past, how we're going to prevent such things from happening in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u13	Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u14	Dear President of the Government, I respect you, but I have the feeling that the circle in your cabinet is somehow selectively informing you and that it is not possible for the real situation in the country to introduce you at all, because otherwise it would not be possible for you to make such statements. We Slovenians look forward to it, but unfortunately only because of the success of the athletes. Honest congratulations to Peter Prevc for his great success, but what we do is not to exclude myself from the responsibilities of this house, nor does it give any great hope or joy to the people. And I'm talking about these things, double standards and standards. What you said when you listed the measures, what you did, but we can empirically prove that these measures don't work. If those measures that you were talking about were working, then today we would be responsible for the bank's security hole, not to occupy key positions in the country. That's a major problem. If you look at the global crisis, in other European countries, those responsible sit in prisons and in Slovenia, those responsible for the bank hole sit at the key positions of the state banks and the organisations that manage the state firm. That's what's killing us and hurting us. In particular, look at the case of Pek or Alpine. For Pekko, the buyer was Baldini, but they preferred to put him in bankruptcy. For Alpina, DUTB advisors were given 80,000 euros a month. Mr President of the Government, these are not normal things, this is what kills us, and that is why I really ask you once again: What will you do to improve the management of state property and that those responsible for the mistakes are also responsible?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u15	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u16	Your Honor! Of course, I already congratulated athlete Peter Prevc yesterday, Boštjan Klinet, Maja Vtič, on being congratulated here again, and there is no doubt that athletes are also making us happy. But there are other joys, and I don't think it's good for citizens to hear such destructive thoughts from here. Let me just say that entirely objective research and data shows that the confidence of consumers and economists is far above the long-standing average, honourable Member. And if you look at other objective data that shows where Slovenia is, where we grow in positive development indicators, then you will see that there is absolutely no reason to be so pessimistic. But I understand people's difficulties, and that's why we're here, and that's why we're working. And it's not true that the government doesn't deal with these problems. I have specifically cited seven measures by which the Government has approached this. Of course, there are the police, the prosecutions, the courts, the authorities, who also have to do their job. We count on them, and we believe they will. That is why, for example, we have strengthened the prosecution, and that is why many more resources are now being allocated to the police by this government than the previous governments. Significantly more. Therefore, your allegations which you have implicated in the matter are, in my opinion, unfounded. But I agree that there are problems. It's been a problem for years. I don't know how many years have passed from this bank hole to today, and I think you can calculate, certainly not one or two, and at that time nothing has actually been done, so this is the situation. We have prepared these measures and are now starting to implement them. I think that citizens understand this very well, so I cannot agree to any such assessment that I have no idea of the state of reality in the country. Dear Member, every day I am still working hard to find out about the state of reality in the country and together with ministers, and I am working with this government to improve everything that we have experienced from the financial, economic and social crisis years ago, which has happened precisely because such measures have not been taken at the time that this government is now taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u17	Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u18	Apparently, the Prime Minister and I live on two different planets. I have a completely different feeling than the President of the Government. It may also be useful for the President of the Government to have a thorough discussion in this house where Slovenia is going and what it wants. In particular, what I asked today about the management of Slovenian state property. President of the Government, I'm going to tell you one thing myself. Our parliamentary group has proposed an amendment to the Banking Act, where it would simply prevent those responsible for the bank hole from being licensed to operate in the banks' administrations and to operate in the supervisory councils of banks, and your coalition has opposed it. In such matters, conspiracy theories can again be created — why? But I don't want to create them. But I want us to look together for answers to things that people ask us about every day. I'm just one of those Members who walk around Slovenia a lot and people ask me day after day, "Why do I have one rule and those elites have different rules?" And that's the key question we should be dealing with. If I touch only the management of state property. I think that sparrows on the roofs are chirping that these institutions are being treated by those who are actually — not you, President of the Government, but by the people who have actually put Slovenia on its knees — taking these key positions again. I am not saying that you have brought her to her knees, only that you have allowed the people who have brought Slovenia to its knees to maintain key positions and to continue ruling in this Slovenia. Do you know what a key solution would be for these people to be cut off and cut off from all financial flows? I understand lefties don't want to give up state property. Okay, okay, but then let's do what any Eastern European country has done, just give this whole state property on the basis of an international call for management to the best operator. We will still be the owners of this state property, we will still receive dividends, but let us pay this operator by efficiency. If state-owned companies run well, they'll be paid if they don't, no. But there is no joy in such a solution. So I would like to discuss these matters honestly in this house and find some wise solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u19	Mag. Matthew Tonin, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 1 March 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u20	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Approximately 14 billion is the property managed by SDH in your coalition name at this time. 14 billion — as heavy as the estimated budget for a year and a half. This is all that is left for the Slovenians, and you, your government and your coalition, are in control or at this point in time. However, I can say that it has not been managed so poorly and untransparently with Slovenian property. I'm going to point out three specific things that come into my eyes. First, Sava, d. d. By decision of the Government, the company must sell one legal person at a price fixed by you to another legal person. Dutb has to sell SDH and Kadu. Are you aware that such a decision by the Government is illegal? SDH says no one can charge him with this purchase and that he doesn't even know if he has money for this deal after all. Dutb says you're forcing him into illegality, but you insist. Why, Mr. President? If you were really interested in Slovenian tourism, you would either save Lipica Turizem or charge SDH to buy all Slovenian ski resorts that are currently for sale or to buy Bohinj hotels that are also for sale due to problems of the owner. Why Sava, d. d.? Why, Mr. President? NLB, NLB personnel, our largest system bank has received spending aid from taxpayers over the last five years, more than €3 billion. You are aware of the latest developments regarding Mr. Gedrich: What will you do, Mr. President? The training in the NLB was opaque and untransparent, and we have warned you about this from the very beginning. SDH chose the supervisors 9. 2, the congregation appointed them 10. 2. Do you know, by then, it's like 9. 2. At least two proposed supervisors did not meet the conditions for supervisors, including the President of the Supervisory Board? Why do you allow Slovenian State Holding to sell or sell our companies to postal collectors in Cyprus and Luxembourg? And I will be very pleased with the very specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u21	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for your questions. Let me first say something very general about your question. For years, Slovenia has sought to depoliticise the economy in order to ensure that the management of state investments is maintained within the framework of an institution that respects and directs the rules of corporate governance and good governance with state investment. That is why before our government came into existence a Slovenian state holding company was established, which is the owner of the property. Thus, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, a modern and most developed countries have been established, i.e. the most economically developed countries, a comparable system of state-owned corporate governance. We have also implemented all the recommendations of the European Commission, as you well know, and all the OECD post-accession reports. This meant what I now stress, depoliticisation of the management of state-owned enterprises, in fact, to leave this in the hands of an independent professional autonomous body, in this case SDH. It is a matter of separating the country or policy from the management of state-owned companies. Accordingly, and we accept this, we have also adopted key management acts. As you know, last year we implemented all these things for an annual plan management strategy and criteria for measuring the performance of companies and so on. The government has ensured that we finally have a transparent, clear, measurable way of managing state investment, which is still subject to the government's decisions as a assembly when it comes to some very crucial matters. In this respect, I must now answer this first question. As for Savo, d. d., the government had to take a decision like that. And this decision is not illegal, as you say. We have obtained appropriate legal opinions on this both at the level of the Government's legislative service and beyond. We've dealt with this a lot before. So this decision is not illegal. What does this decision mean? It means the implementation of the State Investment Management Strategy, among which Sava, d.d., is defined as a significant investment and must therefore be transferred from DUB to SDH, which manages such investments. I expect DUTB to respect this decision of the government as an absolute assembly. Further when it comes to the NLB issue. Let me stress, as I said earlier, that the Government is not the authority responsible for this procedure. This process is still under way, the procedure is not yet completed, the choice is not yet complete. We know that it is also taking place under the watchful eye and, in fact, at the initiative, in some ways also the European Central Bank, which initiated this procedure, which was then upgraded by SDH with some elements, of course, in accordance with the law, as far as I am aware. And this process will end at Banka Slovenije, which will eventually check the suitability of the candidates chosen by the Slovenian State Holding. The Government must not interfere with these procedures. It's not politics anymore. This may have been done earlier, so the government leaves the procedure to run. Of course, I closely monitor, as President of the Government, what is going on, and I expect, above all, that the process will be carried out properly and I expect all relevant clarifications, both by the SDH and by other actors in this process, so that all the questions that have been raised recently, including now on your part, will appear in public, exactly, responsibly. That's what I'm expecting, and that's what has to happen. With regard to your question, why do we allow ourselves to sell something to Cyprus and Luxembourg, I don't know what you mean. You'll have to be more specific about this. This way we cannot answer some questions on average without more specific information. Let me do it again. The government does not interfere with corporate governance, but it closely monitors the situation and expects these procedures to run properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u23	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u24	Dear President, at the time of the appointment of the SDH Supervisory Board, we have warned you that with these names you have opened the door wide to lobbyists who have once dug upon our property. The SDH Board was appointed at a meeting which was convened half an hour before the meeting of the Supervisory Board, the invitation was made for one member, you replaced the entire administration. That the personnel from the Sava, d. d., come to the big door back, regardless of the several hundred million problems that taxpayers have solved, we warn you virtually every day. Several meetings or committees and commissions were convened in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, without your participation and without the participation of the Minister of Finance. We warn, we appeal, we scream empty. You're nothing. Why, Mr. President? Why is it so hard to hit the table and even your narrowest coworkers, who are actually directors of all this, to say that this is not how it works? You still have time to show people who's boss. Chief of Government and the head of the client. Whatever you do, in these stories, you will meet your closest associates. You're responsible for this. If you are aware of this, you are responsible, but if you are not aware of it, you are even more responsible because things are happening past you. Why do you allow this, Madam President?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u25	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I'll just say two more. Your allegations, which are very serious, are very flat-rate. So you said I'd meet some of the narrowest associates and so on. Please bring me the information, the evidence, and we'll check it out. But if they will be presented as you have presented the procedure for appointing the SDH administration, then I will find it difficult to agree to this, because at the time I specifically inquired about it, and there was no way that the matter was going as you say, as quickly overnight. There were several previous stages here. The procedure was very prepared, carried out as necessary. Just so casually before the citizens to say that a procedure had not been carried out, it was called in half an hour. That's not true. At the time, I asked carefully, and the facts turned out to be completely different, so even then they proved to be completely unrealistic. You know, something like this in general to say, this, they, third, which is supposed to spread, that then people feel that everything is wrong, I can't agree to this. But if you prove to me that any person I can directly influence as President of the Government has done something wrong, I will act immediately, as I am now, if this is absolutely necessary. And that's what I'd say. The Slovenian state holding company or members of the Supervisory Board of this holding company were appointed here in the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. This thought of how this body, this body, formed, was very thorough, previously at the level of the Government, then in the National Assembly. These procedures, which went on until the completion of the new composition, i.e. to the administration, did not run as you say, superficially, quickly, but were considered. In the first stage, they were very poorly communicated, very poorly presented to the public, to which I was very critical myself. After this communication was finally established, we saw that these phases, which were urgently needed, legal and essential, had been carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u27	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u28	I propose that the debate be held on the answer and on my very specific questions, which, of course, I have not received an answer to. Mr President, I suggest that you really look at the meeting of the SDH Supervisory Board, where the administration was appointed. This meeting was convened half an hour before the beginning. The invitation to tender was made for one member of the board, and it was even called a new administration. Transparent? I don't know if that's what you call it, maybe. Paloma was sold to a mailbox in Cyprus. The new credit bank will be sold to the mailbox in Luxembourg. And Adria Airways will either be sold to a mailbox in Luxembourg. This is the information that the president of SDH has provided us. I wonder if you support that. Does this government support this? About Savi, d. d. to decide the government. About Telekom, which is also an important investment, according to the strategy you will find a thousand and one reason why you did not help make decisions. And these are the things we remind you of every time. And these are double criteria: in some, yes, in others, no. There is a fact in the New Ljubljana Bank that the President-respected is that things did not go as they were supposed to. You are the Prime Minister, the New Ljubljana Bank is the System Bank. In the last five years, we have given taxpayers 3 billion taxpayers to the New Ljubljana Bank for mistakes, crimes. Anyway, this has to end. People have enough of this. And if you're here to explain to us how lucky the Slovenians are. You can do it, great. Just do it. And, unfortunately, you're doing the opposite. It is therefore right to discuss the management of the taxpayer's property, not your property, the taxpayer's property, and the answers the President has given to my question, at one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u29	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 1 March 2016, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I'll be quite exact, so the President of the Government will have a much easier job than before. Actually, I'm asking about the numbers. The euro is the euro, and we'll probably see it the same way. There is no doubt, however, that the party to which I belong, the SDS, as far as the migration crisis is concerned, has given a great deal of initiative in the past. So it's 31. 8 / 28, 2 / 8, 8 / 28, 8 / 8, 8 / 28, 8 / 8, 8 / 28, 8 / 1, 8 / 1, 8 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 12 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 11 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 10, 18. 11. We have proposed a series of measures that would be useful to this country in terms of the But we have been rejected, and more or less our initiatives on your part, Mr President, have been marked non-state-efficient, although many of you have adopted them even in Brussels as your own. It's plagiarism, you know. But I'm not gonna ask you today. My goal is to answer to Slovenian citizens, to all of us here, the extremely simple questions that relate to the finances associated with the migration crisis. I also raised a small part of the question on the issue of the safety of migrant centres. I think that Slovenian citizens are entitled to receive first-hand answers to the following questions. First time. So far, how much is the cost of all the migrants who have crossed the Republic of Slovenia at our expense because we don't actually count them anything? Another time. Here I am asking for accurate information that there will be no further problems in the public. What are the costs of one person seeking international protection or asylum in the Republic of Slovenia? And the third time. What are the costs for those persons we have in the Republic of Slovenia who are in the process of being removed from the Republic of Slovenia, in short, in Postojna? Of course it costs one person. And of course, what seems important to me is that we hear something on your part that you imagine that, with this growing number of centers, we will take care of the security of the asylum home for both migrants and in the first place, because, finally, you are the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But I will be very grateful if you compare these numbers a little bit with those numbers that our citizens also know, such as the lowest pensions, the lowest wages, etc. In short, the euro is the euro, we can't say here that one sees it that way and the other sees it that way. I expect very exact answers in numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u31	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you, honourable Member, for the question. I'm really going to give you some specific answers. To be very precise, I'll read them. On the first part of the question. The costs associated with the migration of migrants across the territory of Slovenia relate to the costs of various ministries and the General Secretariat of the Government. From the end of September 2015 to the end of 2015, these costs amounted to €22.5 million. This year, however, €9.8 million was incurred by 15 February. The costs related to the costs of working in state and municipal authorities and public institutions, the costs of implementing the measure, the reception and temporary accommodation of migrants, the costs of equipment, the costs of volunteering and the costs of municipalities are also covered here. Total costs related to the migration of migrants across the territory of the Republic of Slovenia from the end of September to 15 February 2016 amounted to EUR 32 million 280 thousand 774 thousand. That's a good 32 million. On 5 November 2015, the European Commission approved €10.2 million of emergency funds to deal with the influx of refugees into Slovenia, that is to say, aid. It is €4.9 million from the Internal Security Fund, ISF, and €5.2 million from the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, AMIF. The project was approved until 19. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day At the same time, the Council of Europe Development Bank approved a €1.5 million donation to Slovenia, while the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees donated € 3.6 million. In addition, some other donors contributed bilateral funds. This means that we have worked very hard to ease these costs. We have had many contacts and initiatives and it has proved successful in this respect, as I have said, that we have received a great deal of assistance, donations and the like. Another time. The cost of one person, i.e. the applicant for international protection, is 385.80 euros per month. This amount is included on one side of the care day, which is 12,26 euros, then we have to multiply it by 30 days, so 12.26 euros a day, plus 18 euros a month's allowance gets such an individual. Basic care includes accommodation in an asylum home, meals, personal hygiene, clothing and footwear. However, the costs of the day’s care do not include fixed costs, so to speak, salaries, operating costs at home and so on. Third time. The cost per person who is in the process of being removed from the Republic of Slovenia cannot be determined because each person is individually treated according to the possibility of return. Most often, however, it is the cost of transport when returning, depending on where the country of origin is. Otherwise, the cost of removing a foreigner of 75% is covered by the European budget and only 25% of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, let me stress that Slovenia is not a target country, so in our country asylum seekers are significantly less than in neighbouring Austria and Germany or other target countries. Asylum procedures are still under way. So far, we've only brought back more than a dozen people to say so. In view of the fact that you asked me last time about the security of the foreign and asylum centre, let me first explain that the foreign centre has no exposure. It has been operating for many years and the security around this centre has been adequately regulated, as so far no major safety problems have been detected due to the operation of the centre itself. However, in the centres for foreigners, technical protection is provided, so to speak, a fence, and physical protection by the police. In the area of the Centre for Foreigners, movement is limited in accordance with Article 67 of the Aliens Act. Finally, as regards security in asylum homes and outposts, it is taken care of by a security service that performs both physical and technical protection. However, security in the vicinity of these facilities is guaranteed by the police, as is the case with the rest of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u33	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much. President, I suggest you do something. Forgive the one who has prepared this answer for you this afternoon, this will be the best. Let's do it in order. I'm just going to talk about asylum seekers because he won't let me talk about the rest of the time. The secretary is 25. 2. 2016 said that the cost is EUR 1000 500 per month. Your secretary is. And your Minister, Dr. Marble, is already 21 years old. 9. said it was 833 euros a month. Now let's go in line, why did I tell you to forgive that guy? See, the Contingent Plan, which was adopted with your signature – this is this document – says so. The EUR 378 you want to eliminate me now, and Slovenian citizens, is the cost of basic care, food and housing, slippers and toothpaste. It's over. There are no other costs involved here. If I count the costs for employees' salaries, EUR 509 million in one year, then it will come to EUR 865 per asylum seeker. If you add only the security costs, Security Ljubljana, those who protect them or who already protect them, these costs are €220,000 per year. That's your signature, President. Add this and it is €90 per month to the asylum seeker. If we add up all these three costs, we get a thousand 344 euros per asylum seeker for one month. And we did not count the following costs: Dublin procedures, translation costs, costs of free legal aid, legal representation, co-financing of programmes from European funds, rather than costs, such as education, but of course health care. All these costs in EUR 344 are not included, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u35	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u36	The supplement is next. I don't think it's gonna hold, like you said. My information, the information I presented, is perfectly accurate. It is true, however, that you want to show fixed costs as part of the cost of the refugees. Listen. These fixed costs, which you have just mentioned, for the salaries and costs of operating an asylum home, are fixed, I stress, they arise, whether there is one refugee or there are 100 or not. These are fixed costs for these maintenance facilities and for the work of these people there. That is why this information, which I have shown and also the rest, is completely correct in this respect. But I've presented very precisely the context of these numbers, so I think it's possible to understand very clearly what this is all about, so I wouldn't repeat it again. Let me just add what you've asked about these security aspects. The government also regularly informs the public and the municipalities about all the planned measures and takes care of the exchange of views and the coordination of views with the local community throughout this migration crisis. Of course, we also understand that there is concern among the population, and that is why we will also carry out an appropriate safety assessment for any new location that we would need to install any category of migrants and provide additional security measures and activities where necessary. However, the police are already doing this anyway, I just wanted to point out that it will be perfectly clear that this is always before our eyes and that this information and protection will always be ensured. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u37	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Of course, I also suggest this because it is simply that citizens of the Republic of Slovenia cannot be of good will if the President of the Government wants it. He's not going to command. That's why I have to say the following. The data I gave, the President of the Government, is data from 2014 when there were 49 asylum seekers. Can you imagine? Thus, in 2014, when we had 49 asylum seekers in Slovenia, a thousand EUR 344 was paid by Slovenian citizen to one asylum seeker. Now you call it fixed costs or fixed costs. Whatever you call them. The cost is a thousand 344. Now that you're setting up all these exhibits and in Ljubljana, I don't know where else, it's going to be an extra cost. This will be additional costs, as they are additional security guards and electricity will also be needed everywhere else. In one year or some year, when we accept the end of this year's budget, we will see these costs. And Slovenian citizens need to be told that. In fact, I am angry that in such a mild way someone is trying to transfer Slovenian citizens around, and say, you pay 380 euros. However, if they pay a thousand 300 euros, they do not count the many costs they pay, but they are quite inconclusive. But it's a test of the following. Look, the lowest full-time pension, the data is for 31. Last year's 12th, and it's a little higher than I've been saying, it's €440. The citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who spent 40 years on running lanes, gives him €440 – the information is from the ZPIZ and cannot be denied, is three times less than the asylum seeker. So three times less citizen than asylum seekers who came to Slovenia yesterday. Next. We cannot deny that the minimum wage is EUR 553 net. Does a Slovenian citizen get 2.5 times less than an asylum seeker? We cannot deny that there are 300,000 pensions, gentlemen opposite me, less than 500 euros, or 2.7 times less people, I am underlining as an asylum seeker. And you can't deny the data that your statistical office has published that there are 290,000 citizens living below the poverty line. I think that in the debate that I hope we will come to, we must answer these questions. I have not talked about the need to abolish asylum seekers, but the costs should be reduced under the costs that a person has at a full retirement age, for example.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u39	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 1 March 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues, you too have a very good day! The second year of this coalition government also means a second year of stable economic growth, a stable trend in reducing unemployment and a key change in the implementation of this country's policies, from the recovery of the consequences of the severe economic and financial crisis to investment in raising human standards and the development of our country. Key measures that could be summarised through fiscal stabilisation, through the rise in the minimum income of the population, through the release of key measures that the ZUJF has targeted and are important for the standard of people, such as the release of children's allowances and the increase in the number of scholarships, need adequate upgrades, which at least the Social Democrats see primarily through tax reform, which must relieve the middle class and enable employers to adequately relieve the cost of work in order to properly reward their employees, and thus achieve greater efficiency of work, higher productivity and consequently maintain the achieved standard of economic growth and the achieved standard of growth of new jobs. That's why I'm interested in: What are the intentions and measures envisaged by the Government in relation to financial measures, the tax reform to bring about a middle-class unloading, the strengthening of domestic consumption as a result of it and the stabilisation of economic growth, which, according to the data presented in the previous week, also appears to be one of the key consequences of the measures taken by this coalition government in the coming year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u41	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u42	Mr Member, thank you for the question. With the signing of the social agreement for the period 2015-2016, the Government has committed itself to implementing measures to restructure public financial burdens with the aim of reducing labour burdens. Slovenia has low and competitive taxation of corporate income and high labour costs. If we have a tax burden in a particular area compared to other EU countries relatively high and, on the other hand, relatively low, then we must do exactly what we call tax restructuring. The objective of consolidating public finances will also have to be achieved in pursuing the objective of such restructuring. This means that the Government will in the future prepare measures to reduce the workload on the one hand while, on the other hand, prepare measures to cover the loss of revenue. A uniform distribution of the tax burden will be pursued according to the economic power of the debtors. Steps of tax reform will be coordinated in social dialogue with employers and employees, as social dialogue is the basis for reaching a broad social consensus on the future development of the Republic of Slovenia and an important democratic value that needs to be strengthened, developed and deepened. The government has taken the first steps towards decommissioning labour costs and thereby establishing a more efficient and growth-friendly tax system while pursuing the goal of achieving fiscal consolidation already done so by changing the income scale at the end of 2015, as you know. In 2016, however, it will continue with measures which will reduce the burden on those labour costs which are internationally comparablely above the average burden. Comparative analysis shows that labour costs to average wages are moderate and the burden starts to increase at a salary of 1.6 average and increases further with wage growth. We have an average workload of the most productive and most educated personnel. The government is planning measures towards a fairer distribution of the tax burden between consumption, labour and property, that is capital. Measures will be put in place to reduce the burden of work as a factor that negatively affects competitiveness between tax measures and at the same time poses an important obstacle to economic growth. It is expected to reach €60 to €90 million in labour costs. However, solutions in this area will only be drawn up by restructuring public financial burdens through the principle of equitable and fair distribution. The objective is to ensure a key economic objective, i.e. to boost economic growth while ensuring fiscal consolidation. Particular attention will also be paid in this regard to the unification of the contribution bases, which account for social security contributions. This measure will also achieve important indirect effects that can be expected through administrative simplification and normalisation of the labour market situation. The concrete proposals that you state, honourable Member, will be carefully assessed in accordance with the objectives pursued by the reform of tax restructuring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u43	Mr. Jan Škoberne, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Mr. President! I am pleased with the words you have said in response to my question, because it means that we can count on increasing the competitiveness of our country on the one hand and the Government's awareness of the fundamental objective, that is to increase the consumption that needs to increase economic growth and at the same time the burden on our people, because without tax burden we cannot expect a real rise in living standards and the power to consume in the country. However, I am further interested in: How do you personally or as a Government view the question or possibility of introducing an additional income class that would increase the fairness of the income burden of the inhabitants? Can we also count on what we think of the Social Democrats, in order to make it crucial, to make a substantial decommissioning of the 13th and 14th wages, which has proved to be a very important component of ensuring domestic consumption around the world? And the question on this side is very often: What is the relation to changing or revitalising the law, which also regulates the sharing of profits among employees, given that the existing law does not produce results when we wanted them to be adopted? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u45	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you for that additional question. As I said, it is not yet appropriate to comment on these concrete solutions. Look, all these solutions are on the table, including your proposal. But this is about going through some social dialogue here. So to ask additional employers, employees, are called trade unions, representatives of workers and others. Of course, it is not last but a very important political environment. There is also a need to reach some consensus in the political field. Surely, as you know, this government is really working towards a fairer distribution of these burdens and one that will, on the one hand, ensure greater economic efficiency and also prevent this brain drain from going abroad over the past years and, on the other hand, allow for a decommissioning, as we have done last year, of the middle class and allow workers to have a decent salary, a decent life. Of course, this also requires other measures, the development of the economy in general, social measures. Everything the government does. However, we will certainly be committed to taking these measures through some intense dialogue in the coming months so that we can somehow reach some consensus on this step forward, which, on the one hand, I said, will burden the economy to make it even easier to work, to export, just as they are doing well now. We also need to reduce administrative burdens and everything else. On the other hand, that we will also be fair to workers, i.e. to workers in general. So this process is now getting very intense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u47	To the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miroslav Cerar, I thank you for the answers provided. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 14th and 15th meetings of the National Assembly. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, should answer Mr Miha Kordiš's questions regarding Slovenia's response to a French request for military assistance and Dr Franca Trček regarding the complexity of the union and the non-coordination of the work of diplomatic representatives, but he is absent today. I ask the MP if you insist on an oral response or if you want a written reply from the minister. [[advertising from the hall]] So the Minister will answer the first question in writing and the second oral question. Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar will answer the question from the previous meeting, and this will answer the question of Suzanne Lepi Šimenka regarding the location of the migrant accommodation centre in Kidrič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, distinguished Member Susana Lepi Šimenko, who asked me a question at the previous meeting! Initially, given that most of today's issues concern the issue of accommodation centres in relation to the management of the migration crisis, the fact that the alternative to these accommodation centres is to disperse migrants across the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, at a time when it is necessary to bridge the period when the country is actually coordinated and implemented in coordination with the countries of the Western Balkans, both in the north and at the southern borders to regulate migration flows or to reduce the number of migrants on the Western Balkan route, in order to reach a manageable number of migrants. This is not least necessary not only for the provision of humanitarian treatment, and Slovenia has proved itself, but also for the provision of security, of course, while meeting all democratic standards for the treatment of people. The decision on whether the centre will be in the former military warehouse in Kidrichev has not yet been made. On the basis of the baselines of the broader operational group, a project task has been created and some key dilemmas that have arisen have been cleared up so far. The evaluation process and decision-making on this location will take place in the next period. If this location is assessed as possible and as real, the solution will also be presented to the congregation. The Ministry of the Interior has also issued a call in January, in which we are also looking for other possible locations, comparable size and capacity in order to maintain the current accommodation capacity. In the final decision on the location, the Government will, on the one hand, take into account the findings of the Ministry of Defence's project tasks and the possibility of providing additional funding, and on the other hand, will also take into account the assessment of the arrivals of migrants in the coming period and the possibility of coordination with the local community. This is because the Ministry of the Interior always consults the local community before any decision is taken on the location of the accommodation or reception centres, is also coordinated and is informed of all new information. Cooperation with the local community is important because it is also one of the ways to better manage migration flows, but it is ensured by both personal visits and talks by government representatives and also through cooperation with the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal Communities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and the Ministry of Public Administration, the Service for Local Self-Government. The Member also asked whether the procurement procedure for the purpose of the arrangement or processing of the accommodation centre had been carried out. The Ministry of the Interior has not implemented any call for proposals. However, according to our information, the Ministry of Defence is expected to carry out a call for proposals for the establishment of a project task for the regulation of this centre, if any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u49	Mrs. Susana beautiful Šimenka, you have the floor to request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u50	Nicely greeted! Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. If I understand you correctly, the location in the area of the municipality of Kidričeva is still one of the potential locations of the Ministry of the Interior. As well as many citizens of the Kidrichevo Congregation, they were happy when they were 26. 2. found that the municipality of Kidrichev is not among the operational locations. I'm only interested in the following: Will you comply consistently with the wishes of the local community or [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u51	Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u52	Your Honor, I also thank you for this addition to your question. As has already been said, the decision has not yet been taken and I have already said in the introduction that the Government will get as close as possible to the demands and wishes of the local community when making this decision. Of course, we fully understand all the concerns, all the concerns. However, I must stress that the provision of accommodation facilities in Kidrič and elsewhere in Slovenia is part of the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to control the migration flow, since otherwise it would be an alternative to dispersing migrants. Of course, in all these decisions, we will take full account of the wishes and concerns of local communities and approach them as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u53	Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar will answer Eve Irgl's question regarding security.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much, President for your word. I am answering the question put by Mrs Eva Irgle at one of the previous meetings concerning security. In particular, it highlighted developments in Cologne, Salzburg and Sweden and also related further to the fact that there is a crossing of the Slovenian border by the migratory flow and in connection with this so-called pocket, which has been the concern of all citizens and citizens over the past period, and what we are also informing and also implementing appropriate measures. As far as these practices are concerned, in any event, independently of the migration problem, there are discards and harmful behaviours in which no subjective assessment of anyone is actually necessary and is redundant. These behaviours by their nature already meet the so-called "bit of incrimination" and must in any event be subjected to repression of criminal law because they apply its ultimate necessity as a means of ultimima raceo. As the Member states, of course correctly, these actions are irrefutablely reprehensible, humiliating to women and also terrifying, because sexual inviolability and the preservation of human dignity are values that are highly valued in Slovenia and must certainly be protected and protected. These events still reflect and normally raise a number of security-related issues. For this reason, there is also much to be done to prevent this from happening. These actions or events must, of course, be thoroughly investigated by the competent authorities and brought to justice by the perpetrators, without exception, irrespective of where the perpetrators come from. Because of the good and effective work of the police and in fact its organisation of work during the migrant crisis or the increased crossings across the border, no such events have occurred. As for the so-called pocket, as you know, and we have also reported at many meetings in the past, the Government, with all its activities at both the international and the internal levels, is working intensively to avoid this so-called pocket. Nevertheless, we expect, and we have also said this repeatedly publicly that a slightly increased number of migrants will be stopped in Slovenia for various reasons. While individual rejections by Austrian security authorities pose a security risk and also a burden, the police are also prepared for different scenarios, on which all police follow-up activities to ensure security depend. However, in the first place, as far as the Ministry of the Interior and the police are concerned, the primary imperative of security, which we are also implementing with all measures, and the police are also prepared for different scenarios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u55	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, will now respond to Mrs Ive Dimic's question about concessions for the institutional protection of the elderly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities takes care of the network of homes for over 50 years of age. There are 59 public institutions and 40 concessionaires in the network of institutional protection for the elderly and all perform public service. Currently, it is in institutional protection, i.e. in public and private homes for the elderly and special institutions of 20 000 accommodation places, only for older than 65 years there are about 17 000 600. We have further awarded 40 concessions in Slovenia for the provision of institutional protection services for the elderly since 2000. With regard to the number of concessions you have asked me, I will provide data regarding the regional units of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, namely: Celje, there are 6 concessionaires in this area unit, I may not read them later if you want; Koper 2 concessionaires; Kranj 3 concessionaires; Ljubljana 12 concessionaires; Maribor 5 concessionaires; Murska Sobota 5 concessionaires; Nova Gorica 2; Novo mesto 1 and Ravne na Koroškem 4 concessionaires. In accordance with the Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme, we follow 5% coverage with cities for institutional protection of over 65 years of age, which is also comparable to other European countries. At the Ministry in October 2014, we received an application from the Municipality of Hoče-Slovnica for the award of a concession for the provision of institutional protection services for the elderly; we did not receive any applications other than the multiple initiative of the MGC Bistra, which operates on the basis of a work permit. We also have a request from the concessionaire Dosor in Radenci to increase capacity from 120 to 150 cities. We immediately replied to the municipalities of Hoče-Slivnica that due to the limited financial resources of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia we cannot tender new concessions. We're also on the 5th. 8. 2015 met with Mayor Mark Sorsak and Director of Municipal Administration, where we explained the possibilities of tendering concessions as well as other forms of cooperation, such as the House of Pensioners of Danica Vogrinec Maribor. With regard to waiting periods for admission to homes. The waiting periods have decreased significantly over the last period, mainly in the eastern part of the country. They are mainly located in larger centres and for individual specific user needs, for example for persons with dementia. If there is no condition that an individual wants to go to a specific home, the time of accommodation may be very short. There are also increasing needs and opportunities for temporary accommodation, for example when it comes to broken hips and relatives want accommodation at home for a certain period. In line with the objectives of the resolution, the number of cities in homes will not increase significantly in the coming years, but will focus on improving the quality of housing. We remove three- and multi-bed rooms, develop new concepts of work, adapt the service to the residents according to their specific needs, especially dementia, palliatives, head injury and other. In view of the objectives of the resolution, we have an obligation to develop and expand services more quickly in the community, i.e. in the home environment, and to ensure a comparable number of users in the home and the home environment by 2020. Today it is specific that the current ratio is 1 to 2.9 and we are also more or less specific in the European space. If we look at population ageing, it is essential to establish this relationship at a different level, which is also one of the key objectives of the long-term care and personal assistance law. A deinstitutionalisation project is provided under European funds, where we will try, as far as possible, to support these initiatives by means of European funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u57	Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank the Minister for his answers, but I would still like information, as I also said in my question: How many of these concessions are still unrealised? This means that concessions have been granted and we still do not have a built-up home for the elderly in Slovenia for their care. How many more applications do you have open at the Ministry of Concessions? You said you wouldn't give them away, I don't know how much more. And that's exactly what I'm interested in. Last but not least, in the field, there is information that concessions should be extended, some even 40 years in advance, some for 10 years, and some would not be awarded concessions at all. I think that here is the concern and concern of all those relatives who have their relatives settled or their parents in such homes where concessions are located, so I would also like to ask for a supplement to the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u59	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you, Madam President. As far as the applications are concerned, we only have a formal application from Hotch, as I said, for the award of the concession, and we have also conducted interviews. As for the fact that concessions have not been granted, I now have only Moravča in my head, but I should check, because I do not remember what it would be like to read, but you can certainly get a supplement. I've got Moravce in my head, and in these years, most of the others have come true. For example, Sanolabor, as an investor and concessionaire, has recently opened such a home in Škofljica, Ljubljana, so that these things have mostly been realized. The realisation crisis was mainly between 2008 and 2013, when the contracts also had a real deadline when concessions were granted, when they had to be implemented. So we solved it. I remember when Minister Svetlik was the reason. We have sought some compromises in terms of ensuring where necessary that we hear all sides and provide the necessary places of care. For certain concessions their period of validity is indeed expiring. We are looking for solutions to resolve this in the future. Leadership in all this – there are still no final decisions – will, of course, be a resolution that says that the level of coverage is 5%. Where there are needs, we will by no means withdraw concessions. Of course they're users, their need at the forefront. It is today, and it will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u61	Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, will now answer Dr Vinko Gorenak's question regarding the costs for applicants for international protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u62	I'm sorry. You surprised me. The President of the Government has already answered this question regarding the costs of migrants. I have made certain assessments of the extent to which these costs of migrants per individual person, based on international comparisons, are said mainly to be talks with the finance ministers and their state secretaries of the countries which have the most of these immigrants. If you remember, as has already been said, on 21 September last year, I assessed the costs of migrants to be around € 10,000 per year. This was a cost-based assessment in Austria. After further research, on the basis of the estimated costs in Germany of about €18,000 per asylum, and in Sweden of €26,000 per asylum, we also reviewed the composition of these costs. The costs depend heavily on asylum law and how extensive this legislation is. What I would like to stress is that it is practically impossible, at least not for a part of the year, to assess precisely the cost per migrant. So for 2016, I also made it very clear at the budget that this is our assessment on certain assumptions. These assumptions, however, are very problematic because you know that every day the situation in Europe is actually changing, this flow through Slovenia is changing, we did not know when Austria will start shutting down the flow, how many applicants in Slovenia, how many will go through Slovenia alone. We planned daily expenses for 9 to 10 thousand migrants who would go through Slovenia. Even in that case, we've come to a rough estimate that it's about 10,000 euros if you have a constant flow every day of 9 to 10,000 migrants. The assessment made by the Ministry of the Interior, to which the reply of the Prime Minister also referred, is an estimate of €4,000,691, which covers only basic supplies and allowance. The costs of monitoring procedures in the language, such as translation costs, information costs, free legal assistance in procedures, then urgent treatment, education, the right to work and employment and also humanitarian assistance should be added. As far as this is concerned, it is quite dependent on individuals who come to Slovenia. If they are young boys of good health, it is different than if older ones, families, and so on. This estimate that this is costing us about once more, and that we are then close to 10,000, was probably pretty good. At this assessment of 10,000 per year, we made the assessment of the asylum applicant or the average flow through Slovenia to spend 123 million per year in the budget. So we have 10,000 on the day of transition, that's about 100 million or a little less arrivals and more asylum seekers and then more legal expenses, because they're also relatively large. That's how we got to 123 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u63	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Much more correct than the response of the President of the Government. I have to say this at the start. Minister, those who cross the country are no problem. They cost very little. 9.20 Euros is a train ticket from Dobova to Šentil. I suggest you charge them, because you'll get exactly 4 million 200 in the budget. That's one thing. The other thing is, look, the two of you who are sitting here today, both of you ministers, you've scored 10,000, the minister's score is 50 euros a day, which is a thousand 500 a month, and you're 833 a month. All the calculations from the document I just handed you, page 6 look, page 8 look, because you don't have to look at many of these numbers, they show you that they are getting closer to the data that the Minister gave you. About a thousand 500 euros a month. Look, what the President of the Government said is true, EUR 378 per month for basic expenses. That means three meals of food, toothpaste, basic clothes of bed. Then we're done. Pays are half a million. That's a fact. Half a million were salaries in 2014 and you have to count them. That's 865 per person. 220 euros is security. That's 90 euros per person. And we get a thousand 344 a month. I'll say this, if I may, by allowing you to have two more minutes to try and say something else on this subject. Because I think it's a good idea for Slovenian citizens to know that. It's not some kind of "fucking-up" government. But the Slovenian needs to know. And whoever gives out his wallet, pays, has to know how much he paid and why he paid. Maybe some more details, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u65	Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you very much. This estimate of 10,000 is an estimate of the regular running costs. If we look at the budget, we have 123 million in the estimate somewhere between 9 and 10 thousand. There are also fixed costs for the establishment of all infrastructures that are necessary. And if we share this 123 million with 9,000 now, we're close to what the minister said. We're here somewhere between 10 and 15 thousand euros. And that is, for example, similar in Austria.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u67	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I would like to take this business opportunity to hold this debate. But not so much about the Minister's response. Because the minister responded relatively correctly to the matter. But not the minister, but I didn't count. And we do not have that in these costs: costs of Dublin procedures, the minister knows exactly what it is, translation costs, free legal aid, legal representation, co-financing of programmes from European funds, let's just say education – those children are also something that comes from an asylum home, and there will be more – let's just say health care. These costs were not counted by the Minister, not by me, not by the Minister. That's why I think it's a good idea that compared to what our citizens are, but you know, because the end of the brakes for people who know how to click a little is going to blow. I do not appeal to the government, I do not know what it is now abolishing, all these costs that it cannot stop, but I appeal to this country and this government to the greatest extent possible to lower these costs. Especially for the reasons I said earlier, let's say that the so-called minimum full-time pension is, say, €440. Look, this isn't sustainable. This is simply no longer sustainable for you to give the asylum seeker three times as much as the one who worked for the machine for 40 years. Or 553 euros is the minimum net salary of the worker behind the machine. And then we probably don't have to afford that old proverb that says that the hungry crow, as it were, feeds the sieve, or what the real Slovenian proverb is. But we're on it right now. The hungry Slovenian citizen still renounces, despite being hungry, the fact that someone I see here has few new voters. But this time I'm not thinking of Mira Cerar's client as someone else. It takes a debate in the National Assembly to finally get us all to the green branch and say, "Here, pure wine costs us so much and so much." And it is only right that we hold this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u69	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 1. 3. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! In September 2013, banks were recapitalised by the State. In addition to other state banks, the State recapitalised two private banks: Probanko and Factor Banka, with recapitalisation for Factor Bank 269 million, for Probanka 176 million. In addition, guarantees were granted for Factor Bank 410 million for Probank 540 million. Some of these guarantees have already been cashed. Obligations on day 31. 12. 2015 to the country, to the Ministry of Finance and to the SID Bank today – Factor Bank 180 million to the Ministry of Finance and 7 million to the SID Bank and 193 million to the Ministry of Finance from Probank and 31 million to the SID Bank. In short, a lot of taxpayers' money went to two private banks. The government adopted a decision in February, if I am more precise than 18. 1. In 2016, these two banks — Probanka and Factor Banka — are to be joined by the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, but in the absence of Articles ZGD, this is 582, 583, and Article 586(1) and (2). Legally, according to the ZGD, the Company Act, this is possible. However, this makes the whole procedure untransparent. Why? Since the management of these two companies does not have to tell the reasons for the accessions, nor the content of the contract, nor the exchange relationship, there is no need to revise the company. In short, it's easy to do it at home. Once again, if it's one owner, it's possible. And that's not the answer. It was one owner. It is a substantive question of why you are doing non-transparent procedures for connecting two private banks for which taxpayers have given a billion, a few hundred million, almost a billion out of the guarantee and why you are doing this in such a way that nothing is known that it is not possible to identify the liability or how the credits to which the loans were given are not possible to do a review of everything because it is easily connected in a non-transparent way. Why does the government of Mira Cerar, Minister of Finance, do this, and you are responsible for the finances?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u71	Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u72	Dear Member of the Mags. Andrej Shircelj! In opening, I would like to point out that I believe that the attachment was carried out in accordance with a simplified procedure, which has been carried out transparently and legally. Both. Connections were made on the basis of all necessary revised balance sheets, the connections were based on the latest audited financial statements on the cross-sectional date 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is the date of the connection that was carefully planned. In accordance with Article 68 of the Company Act, both banks have prepared, for the first time, a revised final report after the date of the merger’s account, that is, 1. 1. 2016, and the revised 2015 annual report With regard to the revised final report, Article 68 of the ZGD-1 states that the funds and liabilities to the resources transferred by merger or division to the acquiring company must be assessed in accordance with Slovenian accounting standards or international accounting standards. It follows from the above that the financial situation of the two companies which joined the DUTB was known since it was revised on the day of the balance sheet cut-off day of merger.The Government points out that even in the case of a connection not carried out in a simplified manner, the government does not require the preparation of other audited balance sheets. However, as regards the management report and the revision of the attached contract, it is their intention to ensure that the exchange rate between the shares you mentioned is appropriate for the acquisition and acquisition companies. This is based on these provisions of Articles 582 and 583 of the ZGD-1, which provide, as the content of the audit and management reports, for the justification or test of the exchange rate and the amount of monetary payments. In the absence of a shareholding by the acquisition company to the shareholders of the companies taken over, it was not necessary to establish the swap ratio. Since this was not the case, it was not possible to revise it. Since it was not possible to carry out the audit, its implementation was neither meaningful nor, as a result, uneconomic or impossible to carry out. The absence of an exchange rate is due to the fact that the Republic of Slovenia was the sole shareholder of all the companies involved in the accession. This means that neither association nor theoretically could lead to changes in the composition of shareholders. However, the absence of the exchange rate is due to Article 589 of the ZGD. In doing so, we stress that the absence of the exchange rate did not mean that the financial position of the Bank and Probank was not known at the time of the merger. The financial situation does not stem from the exchange rate, but from the revised reports. As already mentioned, these have been prepared. With regard to the non-preparation of the management report, we also explain that the other elements which, in addition to the justification for the change of relationship, contain this report are the reasons for the accessions and its consequences, as shown in the explanations and annexes to the government materials which were the subject of the hearing in the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u73	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, if we have one shareholder, and if the Government is a shareholder for Probanka, Factor Banka, DUTB and so on, this does not mean that there is no exchange ratio and that this exchange ratio should not be market-based. If it is not, if it does not want to be, it actually erases traces, and this simply causes it to be impossible to identify responsibility for anything. This is the first thing, purely substantive. Another time. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under the leadership of Mir Cerar and with the Finance Minister Dr. Marble, has done so, irrespective of the fact that the Public Finance Supervisory Commission has requested the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to carry out the possible procedure for connecting the Bank and Probank in a transparent manner, taking into account the provisions of Article 582, 583, first and second paragraphs of Article 586 of the Companies Act and drawing up all the necessary balances. This is the decision of 5. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth And on 18. 2. In 2016, the Government reiterated its decision not to take this into account. It will not take into account the National Assembly, it will not take into account the decision of the Commission set up by the National Assembly. Why, Minister-in-Charge, the Government did not take into account the Commission's decision on the supervision of public finances and also did not take into account other decisions adopted by this Commission, such as the Decision of 5 July 2016. 2. A 2016 which it did not take into account? I want to know: Why do the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and why do you, as Minister of the Government, not require that the National Assembly be taken into account in order to take account the Members and Members who have elected this Government?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u75	Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor, you have the floor for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u76	I think that I have explained that the practical content of this connection is the only logical and meaningful one that is on the revised data. I don't see why it's impossible to answer for anything either. All information on the connection that has been revised is available. If anything is wrong, it is still possible to derive responsibility from all these data. From this point of view, we think that we have done transparently and transparently and what was most rational. And maybe I'll just read you what the assessment of the connection made as the Probank and Factor Banka Slovenije Supervisory Board was. "On the basis of a review of all relevant documents, including the revised 2015 annual report and the revised annual report of the company taken over to 1. 1. 2016, after obtaining all the necessary information and data affecting the connections and analysing the reasons and consequences of the association of the Bank of Slovenia's Board of Supervisory Board of the Bank or Probank, estimates that the link in question is economically beneficial to the Republic of Slovenia as the sole owner of both companies, as the connection ensures a rationalisation of the business and, in particular, the extension of the period of the acquisition of the assets of the company and thus a higher cut-off and a lower probability of additional capital burden for the sole owner. The Council of the Bank of Slovenia therefore considers that the proposed accession is legally and economically justified and notes that the current accession procedures are in accordance with the provisions of the GGD1." They are, therefore, considered to be economic and legally correct and, in our view, such connections do not make it completely impossible to determine responsibility if something was wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj has a request for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I have the proposal to hold a debate on the Minister of Finance's response to the accession of the two private banks recapitalised by the taxpayers. The fact is that Article 582 of the Act on Companies, which was not taken into account by the Government of Mira Cerar and the Minister of Finance, sets out the reasons for the accessions and the intended consequences, sets out the content of the accession contracts, establishes the exchange rate of shares, sets the amount of possible monetary allowances, measures to exercise the rights of holders of special rights. The government didn't do all of this, and we should. It was necessary because taxpayers gave almost a billion euros of money to two private banks at the end of 2013. And if it's not all there is to it, the clues disappear, regardless of the balance sheets. Indeed, these balances have not been reviewed by one or more auditors, as provided for in Article 583 of the Companies Act, which also refers to the revision of the association. And the answer that the Minister reads and is probably drawn up at the Ministry of Finance does not provide an answer to this, for the first time, why the Economic Act on Economic Companies, as set out in its articles, is not taken into account in substance, economically. Secondly, there is no answer at all why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not take into account the decisions of the National Assembly, the Commission's decision on the supervision of public finances, which explicitly stipulates that these articles of the Company Act should be taken into account. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we discuss these links and the answer of the Minister of Finance, who has not been satisfactory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Last week, we witnessed an extremely negative event in Kranj, where due to a mixture of fear and hatred, the parents of students from the Dijaško dom Kranj house were angry about the possible accommodation of six juvenile asylum seekers without the presence of adults. Given the state's and government's record of refugee issues, which is completely wrong, as it is based on repression, discrimination and stigmatisation of refugees, it is not surprising that fear, misunderstanding and intolerance, along with the propaganda of the right hand, and hatred, are growing between citizens and citizens. This worrying event in Kranj also depends largely on the functioning of a country that is headlessly searching for a location where refugees could reside. In this case, it is 6 children aged 10 to 14 years. The country has succumbed to the threats of its parents and has contributed further to the wave of intolerance among its citizens. Much more than the response of these parents of students from the Kranj school is a problematic and totally unacceptable response of 24 teachers from the French Prešern Gymnasium in Kranj, who strongly opposed the placement of children in a nearby school home. Such conduct is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution and to the teaching standards. The Basic School Act in the Republic of Slovenia reads in Article 10: "Children who are foreign nationals or stateless persons who reside in the Republic of Slovenia have the right to compulsory primary education under the same conditions as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia." In addition, 24 teachers of the France Prešern Gymnasium in Kranj violated the basic principles and ethics of their profession. They acted against the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and in particular opposed the values of solidarity, anti-racism and democracy. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: Are you planning to act on the scandalous conduct of 24 professors at the French Prešern High School in Kranj, and if you are going to act, what will be your response? And the following question: In what way do you plan to prevent potential similar cases and how do you plan to ensure that education and education actively work to prevent all types of racism, prejudice and discrimination, especially in the light of rising racism and xenophobia? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. You will be answered by Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u82	Dear President, honourable Member, the honourable assembly! The Law on Organisation, Financing for Education and Education provides that the education system must be based on the development of mutual tolerance, the development of awareness of gender equality, respect for diversity and cooperation with others, respect for children, human rights and fundamental freedoms, the development of equal opportunities for both sexes, and thus the development of decentness for the life of democracy in society. This is Article 2 of the Law, and you quoted other articles of the same law. What we have done in the Ministry without delay is that this is what we have called for tolerance, respect for the diversity and understanding of multiculturalism, which is especially happening to us now, but not only in the time of the refugee crisis, it has happened to us before. Thus we have already established examples of good practices in education and education for the integration of migrants, refugees or immigrants, including immigrants who have come alone, i.e. as children without an escort, as was the case in this particular case. Above all, it is important what and how we will communicate such cases or events not only, but how we will inform all stakeholders involved in the integration and integration of refugees or migrants or immigrant children by means of appropriate protocols. That is why, at the Ministry, following previous practices from the beginning of the 1990s and already implemented projects, these are projects such as, for example, developing interculturalism as a new form of cohabitation, involving children of students, students of migrants in education and education, which were completed in 2011 and 2013 and, of course, also through the so-called powers of teachers in the dimension of integration of immigrants, continued with these cases and also prepared communication instruments both for trainers, teachers and also included the Institute of Education in acute assistance on issues such as accommodation, since this is only the basic part which is related to the implementation of the activity of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but in particular with regard to the so-called two-stage integration model. This model of integration is based first on the inclusion of an individual's child in the collection centre itself or the first installation, and then onward in the so-called workshop, where we try to integrate the child into an environment in which he lives and lives, of course, by learning the language, the language that we all use in Slovenia, which is, of course, one particular effort or challenge for children, and then we include him directly in the educational environment, i.e. in the classroom or in the education and education system, as is the case in Slovenia. Why is it very important that we carry out this step-by-step and thus raise awareness of all those involved in the implementation of all processes and processes? So that we can all learn multiculturalism together, acceptance of diversity, and, above all, tolerance, as regards the implementation of all processes in education and education. I must also say that Slovenia has a relatively large amount of content in its curricula, not only in the implementation of the subjects, compared to other countries, and in this way we are trying to raise awareness of the wider education system and of all actors involved with the content that has been being implemented for many years. What we want to tell schools, but also all the other units currently involved, at this point, is that we will really follow the rights given, both in accordance with past legislation and, of course, with the legislation underlying the teacher's mission, the mission of school and education. I think we need to be here in constant dialogue with each other so that we can prevent any unpleasant or inappropriate situations.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u84	Madam Minister, a large part of the public is shocked and appalled by what these educators have done. And you invited them. I don't know if that's enough in your opinion. Because these educators have violated a whole bunch of national and international conventions and commitments that should be known as intellectuals and educators. Look, we Slovenians have proven several times throughout history that we are a tolerant and tolerant nation willing to help a man in distress. Above all, we have been alone several times in the history of the fugitive. And if we didn't accept us as generously in America, Germany, Argentina, Switzerland, then we as a nation would be much harder to stand. All those who have ever had children also know how fragile and vulnerable children, especially during this growing period, are there after 10 years when they are physically quite large, but in their souls very small children. If we imagine that we are in the skin of these children, not to say that we are the parents that we have sent to a foreign world where they do not know their language, where they weep alone and no one comforts them. But on the contrary, they meet only hatred, and then they might find it easier to understand what it's like for these children. And you know, when fear and hatred are replaced by love and empathy, then maybe we can do it with this kind title Human. So I ask you to complete the question with what you intend to do more specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u86	As I said, we are preparing a series of these, not only are we preparing, a type of these activities are already under way. The path in the dialogue with directors, with teachers, takes place in the process of looking for accommodation centres itself, which is the MNZ domain, but of course education and education is the one that helps. What is very important, and what we will also present more widely in the coming days and weeks, is the process itself, the protocol itself, the very way of responding, which is actually an artificial way from the past period, which you have also warned yourself about. The experience is already something, and it is also right that we now just complete them and try to empower the teacher. I think that this is what is very important in the current situations, that it can and can also focus on these children in the right way. What is important about this is that we are already involved in the European initiatives currently under way. It is a number of types of preparation and implementation of the way in which good practices are transferred, with which the Ministers of Europe are involved, and also as Slovenia, we will try to be included in a series of so-called consultations and workshops in the field of experience, not only in the field of children and youth, but also in the wider range of adults as well. This is because the European Commission, especially in the field of education and training, is strongly committed to developing new instruments in the light of current problems. We will draw these instruments both through CMEPIUS and through, we hope, through direct access, and in particular the involvement of our experts in these gatherings. I think it is right that, above all, by our activities, we help to be really patient and know how to take care of children, adolescents and even more. And that's what's been going on inside the Ministry for some time now. We are in cooperation with three departments, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, because it is the jurisdiction of all three.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić will request a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Apparently, these measures you listed are not working well because they should not have happened. And let me just tell you the opinion of the Pen Club of Slovenian Writers, on their behalf Evald Flisar refers to this as a historical disgrace. And I think we all agree that writers have been fighting for our survival for centuries. They say that one is reasonable and thoughtful measures to prevent the refugee wave from flooding us, while the other is hard-hearted toward abandoned children. And what did the Ministry of Education do about it? Despite the so - called constant readiness, you have not found the time or will to condemn such inhuman acts. I would say that this case is really unacceptable and should not have happened, except that wherever in Slovenia this disgrace would have happened again. I therefore propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold this discussion at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Dusan Radič will ask the Minister of Culture mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Secretary! On 15 April 2015, the European Parliament declared August 2nd as an international day of remembrance of the Roma genocide. Before that, some national parliaments, in 2011 the Polish Fair and in 2014 the Croatian Parliament did likewise. On 2 August 2014, in the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial Camp complex in southern Poland, more than a thousand Sintomas and Roma were memorialized by more than 70 years ago in the former Nazi concentration camp. On the evening of August 2, 1944, a Roma camp was abolished in Auschwitz and then in one single night, so-called Zigeunernacht, 3,000 Sints and Roma were killed in gas cells. The exact number of victims of the "porimos", as in the Romani language called the Nazi genocide over Roma and Sinti, is unknown. According to some estimates, more than 80% of European Roma were killed by the Nazis. With the Jews killed by the Nazis in Auschwitz by almost a million, the Roma were the third largest group in this death camp. A total of around 21,000 Roma and Sints died here, brought from 14 European countries, including the former Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. In this regard, Madam Secretary, I ask you: What is the possibility of financing a smaller memorial board in the Mursophos Park in memory of the Roma genocide? At the same time, I propose that Slovenia declares August 2nd as an international day of remembrance of the Roma genocide. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The Minister of Culture of Mag will answer. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Members and Members, other Members! Let me answer the last part of your question first. Last May we received a request from the Ministry of Culture by the Union of Roma Slovenia to support the creation of a memorial board. At that time, we advised the applicants to apply for a special invitation from the Ministry of Culture to the Roma community with a project to set up a memorial board. At that time, the call for tender for that year was concluded, while for this year the call was recently completed, and my colleagues informed me that this project was also among the applicants. In the case of notified projects, as usual, the special expert committee will decide in all calls. As for your first question that Slovenia declares August 2nd as an international day of remembrance of the Roma genocide, we fully agree at the Ministry. In this regard, we also provided an answer because, at the same time as the proposal or the request for funds for a memorial board from the Association of Roma Slovenia, we were also given the initiative of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to take such a decision. So soon after March 15, 2015, as you mentioned, the European Parliament had already done so. The initiative was addressed to the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and also to me as Minister for Culture. We had already responded positively to the ministry and welcomed all efforts to preserve the memory of genocide, which also took place over Roma and Sinti during World War II. In fact, there are valid reasons for this, you've given them quite a bit. It is certainly the horrors of World War II, where the systematic persecution and extermination of not only the Jewish population and some other nations were carried out by Nazi Germany and its allies and collaborators, but were systematically persecuted and exterminated by Roma and Sinti. On 1 November 2005, the General Assembly of the United Nations declared the largest Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp in Poland freed the Russian army at its 60/7 World Holocaust Memorial Day meeting on 27 January, that is, 1945. In 2012, Germany also paid tribute to the monuments in Berlin to Roma and Sint, who were also victims of the Nazi Holocaust. In the context of preserving the memory of the Holocaust and studying and condemning Nazi crimes during World War II, the Roma genocide was long ignored. It was only in the last decades that international documents and legal acts have systematically marked Romani persecution with the word genocide. Today, in the context of preventing hatred and intolerance among different peoples, cultures and religions, the memory of such horrors is particularly up to date. I do not think that it is particularly necessary to justify why, at the Ministry of Culture and also personally, I agree with the proposal that the National Assembly declare on August 2nd the Day of Remembrance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Radich, please make a request. Oh, you won't ask. Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgle will ask the Minister of Justice a question, mag. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia speaks of the right to freedom of expression. This right is so much more important for our people because we came out of the communist system and it was somehow created as a response to the so-called verbal delinquency that we had at the time of the previous country. That is why the right to freedom of expression is closely linked to the democratic form of government. And at this very point, it is said that if there is, or there is, any restriction on the right to freedom of speech, whether through the pressure of the authorities to sue individuals or through the removal of comments under articles on the Internet, then at this point it is always on the test of democracy. Slovenia is in an extremely difficult situation because of the migrant crisis, people are afraid, concerned and, unfortunately, in our opinion, the government is not able to respond adequately to the resolution of this situation. Instead of getting answers to many of the questions that we are also asking in the opposition, in the coalition and in the government, you are dealing with the so-called hate speech, which is being misused to silence critical thoughts and the right to freedom of speech. The last discussions on this point indicate exactly the following. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Will you go any way to change the legislation on hate speech, which is clearly defined in Article 297 of the Penal Code? Is the criticism of the government acceptable to you, or is it acceptable to an authority in a democratic system, or does it present any personal problems to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Member, other Members and Members of Parliament! There is nothing more to say than agreeing with you about the importance of freedom of expression in a democratic society, and I will add this, of course, that freedom of expression in no society, not even in the United States of America, where their attachment to an amendment is the most secure, is not absolute, that my deep belief is that there is a need to follow the space of the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, because our jurisprudence is relatively small. In the last five to eight years alone, the European Court of Human Rights has issued some 30 reference judgments for various countries, including the Republic of Slovenia, and also for countries, we will say, stable and old democracies, where in certain cases they have supported the restriction on freedom of movement, just in the case of direct insults or attacks on privacy, as you know for sure because you represent a party who, I think, when I prepared myself for this response, either alone or through your President, has filed the most criminal charges or civil actions for the spoken words of the media, journalists, other politicians. This is legally permissible and this is a matter of case law. But it's a sensitive question, no doubt. As for the question that you specifically asked me. I already said at that meeting that at this point I do not see the need to amend the Penal Code as a matter of practice, jurisprudence and practice of detection and prosecution bodies. And besides, you asked me a question that I hope is rhetorical, whether the criticism of the government is admissible. I think we're still living in a free country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Irgle, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u98	Yes, Mr. Secretary, that's about the answer I was expecting. Look, I asked you exactly whether the criticism of the government or of an authority is acceptable or causing you problems. Why did I ask you that? Because the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has brought criminal charges against some individuals before the time you set it, because they dared critically not to speak harshly about the work you were doing at the time and the work of the Commission to prevent corruption. It is important that a significantly higher tolerance threshold is expected from the Authority, which is beyond doubt, to the statements made at their expense. If we want to talk about some effective functioning of democracy, then we need to leave a lot of room to criticize the authorities and authorities each time. We must allow citizens and citizens to circulate information so that opinions spread, that people have the right to talk about public matters that concern them. In the Anti-Corruption Commission at that time, you obviously forgot that you are an authority that should not, in any case, exercise your power over an individual, and here, the honourable Minister, the relationship is quite clear. And that is when you reached out, in my opinion, to the right to freedom of expression. And that's why I'm asking all the respectable ministers here: Did you, with your suggestions for persecution at the time — and if you look back today — go too far and reach out with them in any way to the right to freedom of expression, especially if you know that in such a situation you have to accept that criticism, even if it is harsh, and of course you have to have a significantly higher tolerance threshold to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic will answer. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. I guess we're both very predictable. You said you were expecting such an answer, and I expected, of course, the continuation of your question and precisely in this direction. Look, on the Anti-Corruption Commission, I think we put forward proposals for prosecution against four people at the time, all four of them were either current or former high-level representatives, political or public opinion officials, because we thought that the words that were spoken crossed the limit. It wasn't about criticism, but it was about insulting and undermining the integrity of the organ. It wasn't about words that would mean, we didn't have any problems with legal analysis, like, you know, Professor. However, when some of your, current or former Members used very harsh words against the institution, we put forward a motion for prosecution. With the proposal for prosecution, we have not intervened in any way in freedom of expression, because the proposal for prosecution itself does not constitute any sanction. We were not a repressive body, it was judged by the prosecution, decided as it had decided. I would add something else, the explicit decision of the Senate of the Commission at that time was that none of us three, although we survived a great deal through the media, including some of your newspapers, filed any civil or criminal action for the criticism of us individuals or for the insult of us individuals, only as regards the KPC, and only against persons who were officials or important public figures. We have not made such a proposal against any journalist. And it is not, you know, so simple, exactly the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights show in the area of anti-corruption bodies, prosecutors and so on, we have four relatively new decisions from 3, 4 years ago from Moldova and Romania, where it is a special duty of the State to protect such bodies, including from the intervention of strong individuals operating in politics. And once again, we could agree on that if you thought today that you might not make the same decision. However, I am pleased that you have opened this question because, as your client has said, 47, 47 such different complaints or proposals for prosecution have come only in the last 8 years. I think that maybe we all have a chance to make personal improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar! The New Slovenia Group is not the one we would call the refugee and migrant crisis in this human disaster, but you know us to warn and continue to demand security, security, security for our citizens and for refugees and migrants. They are committed to the truth, and here I see you, Madam Minister, as a member of the government, from which I can get relevant answers to my questions, i.e. true answers. For we are the ones who are subjected to various misinformation through the media, through social networks or social networks, so it is a privilege to ask you a few questions today. In particular: How many accommodation and accommodation centres are you planning in Slovenia? What is the difference between the accommodation and accommodation center – definition, please? Which locations and what capacity will be available from each location? And now one set of questions related to Lendava or my constituency, where we also get the most questions: Who and in what way has Lendava established the accommodation centre in the Municipality of Lendava and was the Municipality of Lendava asked for agreement? As far as I know, there's no agreement until today. Next: What is the capacity of the Lendava accommodation centre and how many migrants are currently accommodated there and how many are estimated to be at the end of March 2016? Does she keep in mind, Madam Minister, that a few days ago, a few migrants fled the Lendava accommodation center? If so, where are they now? Is it clear that one of the migrants stole a car and was later caught in Austria? If so, why did migrants get the right to move freely outside the centre? Are there criteria for the selection of migrants to be placed in the centre of Lendava, such as the country of origin, nationality, age returned from Germany or Austria? Next question: Will migrants have free movement in Lendava or in Prekmur in the future? What's this regime gonna be? And the last in this series: Will the number of police officers in the Lendava municipality be increased to ensure the safety of locals and migrants? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The mag will answer. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Member, I thank you for your questions, because I think it is very important that certain misinformation appearing in the media be eliminated. This is where your questions go. As I have already answered one of the first questions today, accommodation capacity is needed because of the measures the Government is actually taking to regulate or halt the flow, i.e. because of the measures we are taking on both the south and the north borders, because otherwise it is an alternative to dispersing migrants across our territory, so the government is also very committed to fully implementing the Prime Minister's initiative to make matters more manageable in Macedonia, so that, on the basis of the common criteria for entering this migration route, there is no rejection at the individual borders on the way to the target countries, because we know that Germany is still leading the open-door policy at this point. As far as our situation is concerned, you asked about the difference between different types of centres, namely, reception centres during the first and second migration waves were intended primarily for reception, registration, emergency care for migrants, and accommodation in that situation, temporary short-term accommodation. The reception centres are now only Dobova and Gruškovje, while all other accommodation facilities are intended for temporary detention of migrants for reasons which I have already outlined in the introduction. Currently there are nine accommodation centres with a total capacity of 4453, of course without those intended for asylum seekers, which are according to the contingent plan. As far as Lendava is concerned. The reception center Lendava was, in fact, one of the first to be organised at the time of the beginning of the migration flow in September following a prior agreement and also with the conduct of the local community. If you remember, there was a press conference after my visit to the mayor, the State Secretary Šefic also made visits. There was no objection at the time. In fact, we also did not receive any alternative proposal at the time. In fact, this occurred because, in January, by abolishing reception centres at the Petišovci border crossing and the former Long border crossing, this centre was reorganized or redesigned for reception and accommodation. Capacity is 610 people. There are currently 35 foreigners – if this number has not changed at this time – who are in the process of returning to the Republic of Croatia. The situation at the end of March 2016 will be difficult to predict as this will also depend on developments in the target countries and also on the joint actions of the countries on the Western Balkan route. With regard to these events that you mentioned, that is, with regard to the fact that migrants left the centre and the car thefts, we have already explained this at the previous meeting. And as was said at the time, there was no link between the crimes and those migrants. Police Director Murska Sobota confirmed that. Migrants resident in Lendava and under the Aliens Act have no movement restrictions outside the centre and can therefore move beyond it. The majority of migrants who are therefore accommodated by these capacities are, in fact, rejected by Austria. Foreigners are in the process of returning to the countries from which they entered Slovenia or the country of origin. Migrants resident in Lendava under these minor measures have no movement restrictions outside the centre under the Aliens Act and the police have control of them. He's assigning them mandatory reporting to the police. It should also be pointed out that these persons have been checked by police records and no security concerns have been identified by the police. Of course, the police will in any case ensure the security of people and property and also respect for human rights, and ultimately this is the mission of our police. In view of the integrated analysis of the placement of migrants at this location, which you mention, including all safety risks, the number of police officers is also determined to ensure security. Additional police officers from other police administrations, as well as other police units of the Murska Sobota Police Administration, will be deployed in case of additional human resources needs, if this need arises.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, will you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u106	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. Members of New Slovenia are close to people and my phone number probably has most residents in the Lendava constituency. At 2.25 p.m., I received the following two messages: "Today at 13.45 p.m., six migrants walked freely through Lendava, despite different assurances at Friday's meeting of the Lendava Municipal Council." Your co-worker, Secretary of State, Mr Šefic, should also be present at this meeting. And there, in fact, according to my information, I hope that there has been a real consensus reached. Both the Mayor of Lendava Municipality and the Municipal Council came to a conclusion and decided that the centre with open movement for refugees for Lendava was not acceptable. So what the congregation council has decided, on the other hand, we now see, half an hour ago, for example, refugees or migrants move freely around the city of Lendava. To understand each other, I've been talking about this human accident that's happened, but we have to provide security for our citizens and migrants, both of them. I think that too little is taken into account here, Madam Minister, by the will of local communities. And they're not exactly the average of the local communities against migrants and against refugees, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, in fact, opposed, at least according to my information, to the Lendava accommodation center. I don't know whose property is the area, the parcels, but people are asking for and demanding some kind of security regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u108	As has already been said, that is to say, migrants who were resident at the Lendava accommodation centre were determined by the police to stay outside the centre as a minor measure in accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act. This shall be decided where it can also be done in such a way as to ensure the removal of a foreigner from the country. In this overall situation, of course, we understand all the concerns and concerns of local communities, but it must also be based on existing legislation, namely Article 81 of the Aliens Act lays down cases where this compulsory accommodation of a foreigner in a foreign centre may be replaced by a minor measure, provided that it can also ensure the removal of a foreigner from the country. The purpose of this measure is not a real restriction on movement, but movement is limited only to the place of residence, so it may also happen that these foreigners leave the place of residence or, at the end of the day, go to another place or leave our country at all. It is a fact that the long-term limitation of the movement of migrants in accommodation centres which do not fall under Article 76 of the Aliens Act governing the removal procedure is not possible under current legislation. We are also in order to deter the potential danger that could arise under certain circumstances in the event that a large number of free-moving foreigners have been accumulated at a specific location in a given capacity, we have also proposed, under intervention legislation, restrictions on movement of migrants who are not in the process of removal, for a period longer than 48 hours, but the Ministry of Justice disagreed. Perhaps, however, circumstances in the future will require a change to the State Border Control Act, even in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Will you request a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you very much, Madam Minister, for your answers. I have no reason not to believe you, but precisely because you have now told how the situation will unfold in the future, no one can predict it, and this in some way requires one in-depth debate, solely to help you in particular the National Assembly to answer questions whether, for this moment and for the future, our legislation is optimal or calls for possible changes, to see whether we have enough motivated police officers and whether we have sufficient police capacity to actually explain to the Slovenian public what is going on in the accommodation centres and where these centres will actually be set up and, above all, communication, communication. I think that this moment is not good enough for honest, open communication between the government and between local communities. We know why this is difficult, I don't want to go into the area of financing local communities, but I think we can do more in this area and we need to do more. And that is why, Mr Vice-President, I propose that we bring together one in-depth debate on this subject so that we can actually examine the various scenarios that may be waiting for us in the future, so that we are not surprised to be prepared to address the various scenarios that this, once again, is bringing us, an accident, this refugee-migrating crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Ivan Hršak will put the question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! From the very beginning of the adoption of the Law on tax clearance of accounts, we have been defending the position that this is to be formed without exception. Since the introduction of the tax registers this year, some stakeholders still have problems in practice, in particular with the different and unclear interpretation of the individual provisions of the Act. Among them are religious communities which, due to the use of voluntary contributions, constitute such an exception. FURS surveillance, if it is going on intensively and although I am aware that the results will only be visible after a certain period of time, I ask you: How many controls were carried out in January by FURS and what were the findings? How many controls have been carried out so far, i.e. in February, by FURS, and what were the findings? As a result, I am interested in the number of fines given and their height. How many controls have FURS carried out so far at church facilities and what were the findings of the supervision? Were fines given to church bodies and, if so, at what amount? Did FURS find a possible violation of the law in the control of church entities where, for example, there are already certain prices of different services, such as sacred mass, funerals and similar services, for which the contracting authorities are explicitly aware of the price and the official prices of the religious community do not apply and refer to the principle of volunteering, even though it is actually a payment for the service provided? Do you believe that such exceptions, which we know exist in practice, can be eliminated? Is it possible at the Ministry that you're thinking about amending the law? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The Minister, Dr. Dusan Maramor, will answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u114	Dear Member Ivan Hršak. Increased supervision of the implementation of the Law on tax clearance of accounts The Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia shall exercise effective 1 February. During the first three weeks of February, FURS staff and inspectors carried out 2 000 702 procedures to monitor the implementation of this law. 226 irregularities were detected, which means that irregularities were detected in 8.4% of the controls performed. The controls were primarily carried out in respect of the debtors who received warnings from FURS in January 2016 and set a deadline for inclusion in the tax system. It was found that a large majority of the debtors have fulfilled their obligations and irregularities have still been identified with a small proportion. Out of a total of 226 infringements found, in 87 cases, a criminal procedure was also initiated with a view to imposing fines, of which 23 procedures had already been completed by issuing payment orders and 64 proceedings were still pending. 137 warnings were also given for minor offences. The payments orders and decisions issued totalled EUR 44 000 fines, the most frequently identified and selected infringements in the first three weeks of February 2016 were, the debtor did not issue an account, the data sent did not match the data in the invoice issued, the invoices issued were not confirmed, the breaches related to the use of the bound accounts from the accounts. During the first three weeks of carrying out FURS control, it failed to carry out procedures with religious community entities. Now, given your question, given this specificity in church entities, this can only be regulated through supervision, and FURS has decided to issue a warning in the coming days, and some instruction to these church bodies that voluntary contributions, which have a future price, are not considered by law to be voluntary contributions and will point them out. Of course, there are also inspections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Hršak, do you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you for your answer, Your Honor. Just when you said it at the end, I was actually going to suggest something. I see, I would say, one part of the solution in that then these church entities, that is to say churches, should have written somewhere in a visible place, that is to say, clearly, a visible inscription that all services performed here on a voluntary basis are on a voluntary basis. And through this we should actually also inform the public, that is to say, if someone says no, this service costs so much and so much, although the price list is not official, we should, of course, also appeal to those who find it to report it then. In this way we would really avoid practices that I believe exist in this area at this time, because of course also from conversations with certain people, even recently, that this actually exists. I think it is wrong, in fact, that this matter must be settled, given that these religious communities also receive a significant share of state money for their operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please respond. He didn't ask. Good. Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Muramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister, welcome! Of course, we are pleased that we have been in the past year, including the forecast of economic growth itself, are quite encouraging, and of course we are all very happy. However, it is worrying that the autumn forecast of the UMAR, which is somehow the basis for all further analyses and also the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the future, does not take into account the migration crisis, which you also answered my written question in November. We now know that private consumption and exports are key factors in economic recovery. Export is one of the factors that I am deeply concerned about personally. If we look at what our main export partners are, we see that they are Austria, Germany, Croatia, Italy. So countries that are exceptionally exposed to migratory flows, including not least migrants, are already closing borders between individual countries, which can cause higher costs for entrepreneurs themselves, means longer transport routes, which means difficulties in the supply of "just and time" and so on. Mr. Secretary, I'm really interested in your assessment: What does the migration crisis mean for economic growth in Slovenia, for this year and not least for the rest of the year, both in terms of what is happening in our biggest export partners, and not least what is happening here in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u120	Yes, honourable Member Susana Beautiful Šimenko. The assessments of these impacts can be very different, and these estimates can be positive on the one hand, on the other hand. Certainly, the decline of Schengen would have had tremendous negative effects specifically on Slovenia, because Slovenia is one of the most open economies in the European Union. The estimates are very different, going up to 60 billion, which I think is a bit excessive for the whole of the EU, and of course an appropriate share for Slovenia. At the same time, however, we must be aware that, on the other hand, there are also, in particular, medium- and long-term positive effects. Slovenia faces as many European Union countries the problem of population ageing, population decline and demographic change, and this reduces potential economic growth while population ageing costs increase. The latest projections of the European Statistical Office since 2013 show that after 2025 the population of Slovenia will begin to decrease despite increasing net migration above the level of 4 000 individuals per year. According to the projections, the population of Slovenia will shrink by about 10,000 between 2015 and 2035. During this time, the population of between 15 and 54 will fall by 54,000, while the population of 65 years of age and older will increase by 70,000. These unfavourable trends will continue for a longer period of time, there until 2050. However, the deterioration of the demographic structure will be particularly strong between 2025 and 2035. And this demographic situation is also one of the key motives for Germany that, at a time when it has fiscal stability, when it has a structural deficit, when it has virtually full employment so, I would say, it is widely accepted by migrants, because this would be a solution for Germany for a longer period of rejuvenation. I'm actually gonna go to some evaluation that, of course, always has bad assumptions. So here I would take these model evaluations with a certain reserve, but under certain assumptions, models can produce such results. The impact of the migrant crisis on economic growth can be shared in the short and long term. The short-term impact will depend on the number of migrants and, as a result, on the extent of the public funding required for the purpose of controlling the migratory flows and how these funds are provided, in addition to what I said earlier, which is a negative impact by closing the border. If these funds increase total public financial spending, let's say we get one piece of funding from the European Union, we contribute one part of the funds ourselves and increase public spending, the short-term impact can be positive. Higher overall public spending would increase domestic consumption and thus have a positive impact on GDP in the short term. However, this additional public spending would, of course, increase both the deficit and the country's debt, as at least some of these additional funds will have to be financed by debt. On the other hand, the impact of the migration crisis on growth can also be neutral if, due to increased expenditure for this purpose, savings are sought in other areas, so that demand is reduced elsewhere and then only what we said before remains, in fact this negative impact of closing borders on an open economy such as Slovenia. The long-term impact of the migrant crisis on GDP growth depends on the ability to integrate migrants who will seek protection in Slovenia and this integration into the labour force. Of course, if this process is controlled and is able to integrate migrants into society and employ them properly, then this effect can be long-term and very positive. According to the models we have developed, simulations based on recent population projections show that in the case of permanent net migration, there would be approximately 4 000 per year, and the impact on potential economic growth for Slovenia by 2024 would be 0.05 percentage points per year and slightly higher in the long term by 2047, at 0.13 percentage points per year.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, do you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, I would fully agree with you if we were here to talk about migration in a general way, like Canada, Australia, New Zealand or any other country, so when they attract educated, qualified people, people who already know their language. We can't talk about this type of migration here. We know that these people are mostly uneducated, do not know the language when we speak our language, and it is thus impossible to integrate them into our, in fact, employment in certain companies, into the labour market. On the other hand, there are still differences, which are actually why the people of the Republic of Slovenia do not want them to be included in our country. But I agree, of course, the demographic situation is also very worrying for us in the long run, and it also means that I believe that this is your main basis when you calculate what will happen in the future, because it is a huge cost for the country. What worries me most of all is what impact it will have on our exporters. Do you have any information on what it means to close borders specifically for our exporters and indirectly to economic growth in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Dr. Dusan Maramor, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u124	I fully agree with you that this assessment of the impact of migratory flows on the economy of Slovenia depends on a number of assumptions and varies over a short and long period of time. Important assumptions relate to the profile of the migrant population, as you mentioned. The impact depends heavily on skills or education, age, absorption capacity, as you mentioned, in the labour force, which is affected by policies, measures and the general framework for facilitating the integration of migrants into the labour market. There is no doubt that young and highly educated migrants would have a positive impact on the labour market and productivity, while the impact of older, less educated is more uncertain. There's no doubt about that. In order to have a precise assessment of what this closure or difficulty in the border crossing would have to do with the export economy of Slovenia, we do not yet have this assessment. We have some rough assessments, mainly by associations such as the Association of Carriers and similar for some other countries. And these grades are very high. Now, is this a purely appropriate assessment, because this interesting association is usually a bit of an interesting adjustment to calculations, but certainly these effects will not be small.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Lai will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u126	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! Given that my predecessor, my colleague Horvat, has already asked quite a few identical questions, such as myself, I would focus mainly on the other part, namely the one that is the latest date, from Friday onwards. As you know, Minister, there was a meeting of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Lendava on Friday. The Secretary of State was also present there. And as far as I am concerned, the position of the local community is that the local community opposes the free unlimited movement of migrants from the reception and accommodation centre in Lendava. Let me just tell you that I am alone when I was at home for the weekend, that migrants are really literally wandering the streets, even in the school yard, and the citizens are beginning to worry about whether the safety of children in school is being taken care of. It's a primary school 500 meters away from this center. In view of the fact that you have already replied that, in accordance with the Aliens Act, migrants have the right to this free movement. The question to me is: What status do they have that despite being rejected by the target countries where they were headed and stuck in this centre so that they can move freely? That's the first question. And two: Who is responsible and invited to be responsible for correct information to citizens? If citizens or all of us had previously received the right information, these questions and concerns would have been inappropriately less feared. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. As you have already found, your question has already been partly covered by the question of the honourable Member of Horvath, so I do not think it necessary to repeat with regard to informing the local community about everything we have already done, how it has been that this centre in Lendava has been established, and not also with regard to the measures that have been taken, and also with regard to existing legislation, and with regard to all the proposals we have proposed, but unfortunately they have not been adopted for the reasons I have already stated. As far as police work is concerned, the police are monitoring the situation on the ground as part of their regular tasks, i.e. the state of public order and peace and general security around these facilities. In fact, it performs all its tasks in accordance with police powers, and also acts in accordance with the law in the event of any detected infringements, either in the field of offences or in the area of criminal offences, and in all these cases, individual responsibility shall be exercised if these deviations are identified. At this point, we estimate that the security situation has not deteriorated due to migrants living in Lendava. Of course, in the event that there is a likelihood that there would be a major threat or threat to a particular area or area where a greater number of migrants would occur, the police would, of course, act in accordance with the Law on the tasks and powers of the police in the sense that the area, the prohibition of free access, temporarily restrict the movement in accordance with all the restrictions that the police have under this law, is a time-limited and one-time measure in accordance with the law. As far as the status is concerned, in fact, this is a very complex situation, I believe that you know this very well as a Member, because there is no measure that can save the migration flow itself, so it works through all the different levers that are given in this way, both by law and by international policy and also by internal policy. If I simplify, this is actually about foreigners who do not apply for international protection and are treated under the law on foreigners. The police shall conduct procedures and activities to remove into the country either transit or origin, including accommodation in suitable facilities or centres for foreigners, if necessary. Of course, the Aliens Act also provides for cases where forced removal is not possible, so the Republic of Slovenia or the police do not return to those countries where the freedom or life of these people would be at risk. I believe and understand that you and the citizens are concerned about the security situation concerning the functioning of the police. Of course, this is our police's primary course of action, but at this point we estimate that the security situation in Lendava has not deteriorated as the last security risk is not assessed solely on the basis of the perceptions of certain migrants in the area who in themselves pose no threat. In my opening remarks, I have also said that this is a matter for persons who have been vetted, so the police have not identified any security concerns, even in this light all these measures, which the police have carried out and will also be implemented in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Lai, request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you again for your word. I certainly don't want to torture you here in any way, because I would be happy to have you devote yourself to that task, in order to provide us with that level of security that will enable us to live a peaceful life in our place as well. However, I am asked a question, look, the local community has made it clear that it is not acceptable to move freely to the extent that it is happening. Migrants linger in groups, and there was also a case of thirty or forty of them, as I was told, somewhere between thirty and forty came into the store at once. Then I think the next case that he was was is that the trifle also behaved unusually on the streets, perhaps also because they wanted to attract attention, because you are certainly saying that the security situation has not deteriorated. There have been no accidents, there have been no major problems, but, look, these are the returning migrants. They are in some way wounded, we do not know what can happen, so it would be good to limit this movement in accordance with local community requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u132	Dear Member, I fully understand your concerns and, of course, the concerns of the local community. As has already been said, I believe that the police have done well in the context of this migratory wave to ensure security. That's how it's gonna be in the future. It will implement all those measures that are legally possible for possible deviations to be minimised or not to occur. You yourself have also heard from the introductions that we have also proposed certain amendments to the legislation, but unfortunately these proposals have not been adopted so far, i.e. the amendment of the Law on State Border Control in the direction I said in the first place. However, circumstances in the future may be such as to reverse the situation in a way that these changes will still occur. At the time of the migration wave, it is extremely important to stress that there has been no security event in which our citizens would be involved, and also the Slovenian police will do everything in the future to avoid this happening. However, it is a fact that the situation, which is very complex, is changing very much, the accommodation capacity – I understand that citizens oppose it, but it is also important to stress what I have said in the first place, because Slovenia is halting the migration flow. Slovenia is in fact the first country on the Western Balkan route to stop this flow, the first to consistently register security checks. In short, for security reasons, the Slovenian police, in the context of the implementation of those provisions of Schengen, which are not adapted to such massive arrivals at our border, have actually done their job well. This is actually about people temporarily staying in our area to clarify their status. Some will ask for international protection, some may be committed in communication with another country, some may wish to return themselves, and some will also return to Croatia and also to the country of origin. However, as far as the work of the Slovenian police is concerned, it will also take care of security in Lendava to the maximum extent possible. However, if you have any questions, you can always contact the Ministry of the Interior and we will be happy to provide you with the answers to all your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Počvalšk, who is excused to be absent, and Dr Petr Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to all, especially to the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Peter Gasperšić! I am asking an oral question because of the extremely serious situations that have arisen in the management of the mercury mine in Idrija. It is about the fact that in 2009 the liquidating process of the mercury mine began in Idrija, which has been operating for centuries and represents an extraordinary technical heritage in Slovenia, so it was also included in the list of Unesca. But despite all this remarkable importance both in its history and in the protection of UNESCO, we do not get that response from the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which is certainly deserved by both people and Idria themselves. Also due to the possible severe consequences that may occur due to the failure of pumps and the non-maintenance of mining installations and trenches, the consequences may then be significantly more costly, more severe than providing means of simultaneous closure and maintenance in later years. The fact is that in January the workers in the mine did not receive even wages, and the fact is that they have also been selling the assets of the mine that they had created over the centuries since 2009 in order to settle the obligations arising from the decision to liquidate the mine. That's why, Minister, I really want to know: How will you manage, together with the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, the financing of the Idrija mine? And I'm asking: Will the unsustainable situation in the mercury mine in Idria be finally resolved, thus preventing any further adverse consequences of non-maintenance? We have recently been able to monitor the severe consequences of not doing all the work needed to close the mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Thank you, Mr Janko Webra, for asking the question. In opening, I would like to explain that the Ministry of Infrastructure is not responsible for the current situation in Idrija or for the condition of maintenance and monitoring in the mine. So I'm going to explain how things are right now. The current regime is based on Article 150c of the Mining Act and the Government Decision of July 2014, which sets out a new undertaking to carry out further maintenance and monitoring in the Idri mine's influential area where mining is no longer carried out. The position of the Ministry of Infrastructure is also that, in fact, there are adequate grounds for carrying out maintenance and monitoring in this influential area and thus ensuring the safety of Idria, at least as it stands on paper. The Government's decision sets out the contractor and the method of financing and allows miners from the Silver Mine, i.e. from the company, to be employed at the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Mercury, i.e. to the public institution established to manage this heritage, as you mentioned, which is also listed in the Unesc list to manage this heritage. The Ministry of Infrastructure also transferred the maintenance and monitoring concession to the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Mercury, in accordance with this Decision of the Government, in July 2014. However, the fact is that the Management Centre, as a new undertaking, is not currently carrying out these tasks by carrying out this further maintenance and monitoring at the mine. This is in fact due to the view of the Ministry of Culture that neither this Ministry nor the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Mercury have been trained and that they do not have the financial resources to carry out maintenance and monitoring activities. Now I can also say that, in fact, according to this position, the Ministry of Culture then in February this year also prepared a proposal for government material, the essence of which was to transfer these maintenance and monitoring tasks to the Public Company Komunal Idrija, d. o. o. To this proposal, our ministry and this transfer of powers, namely the maintenance of monitoring from the Heritage Management Centre to the Municipality, did not oppose our ministry. In fact, in the context of intersectoral coordination of this material, the possibilities for funding these tasks are currently being checked for this public undertaking, which is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, unfortunately there is no minister here today. In view of this decision, this funding of these tasks has been entrusted to the Government; the financing of the tasks of the Centre for the Management of Mercury has been entrusted to the Ministry of the Economy. So now this transfer of this funding should be examined whether it is possible to transfer this to the municipality. It's being checked, it's in progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, you're asking for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u138	I thank the Minister of Infrastructure for his response. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, the President would suggest that I also receive an oral reply from the Minister of Economy, Mr Pokivavšek, to the remainder of which the Minister was unable to respond today. I insist on an oral response and also expect the continuation of this reply at the next meeting in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! Madam Minister, last October, on October 29th, the police announced the strike they had started on November 18th last year, and this sentence has lasted for the fourth month. The police announced this sentence mainly because of wage anomalies, as we know, and because of their outdated professional equipment. In the announcement of the sentence, they also pointed out a humiliating relationship by the Government, which the officers received in the fall time, says in that, we all remember, the migrant wave, when they stood by the border day and night and only received a sandwich, bottled water and an apple for lunch. Well, officers, it's true that they've had several strikes in the last 25 years, but as long as this sentence is drawn, it's never been drawn. And what's wrong with that, I'd like to ask you here. Probably total ignorance. First by the Ministry, then by the government. We all have yet to know the reaction of the Prime Minister of the Government, who said that the strike of police officers was irresponsible, unworthy and, of course, shameful. Of course, the President of the Government later apologized for these words, but you know: The word spoken You know how it goes. [[…]] It is also known that more than one month after the opening of the sentence there were no negotiations at all, but when it broke out, the government negotiating group had no concept to negotiate. Thus, from the beginning of the sentence to today, the government has lost over 8 million, or I will say so much, 8 million funds have not come into our state budget. On 16 February, the government negotiating group of trade union representatives announced that it had failed to provide additional means to address strike requirements and that the government negotiating group did not have a mandate to continue negotiations, thereby stopping the negotiating process and completely blocking the strike-off negotiations. In view of all this, Madam Secretary, I am interested in: Does the government, the minister, or the negotiating group already have any negotiating points? When are they going to negotiate? In view of the failure of the negotiating group and the fact that the sentences are still missing the end, I am interested in: In what way will the lack of funds that will not come into the state budget be compensated? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u142	Dear Member, I believe that you have asked me this question because you are a member of a party with one of the longest traditions in the National Assembly, and you are in fact aware of the comprehensive context of the circumstances that have actually led to the current police statement, which has not occurred either because of the poor management of the department or because of the lack of social dialogue or because of the poor budgetary perspective. As you know, in the last year, I have managed to provide the police with an additional €87 million, i.e. from taking the mandate forward, but the strike came due to past governments' unfulfilled commitments. One of the key promises was made in 2012, and we know who led the Ministry of the Interior at the time, and also because of all the unwise decisions of the past years that systematically drained the police so human, financial, materially, which is actually why skeletons are falling out of closets. We can call this a humiliating attitude, not by any means what the current government is doing. We have taken seriously not only the budgetary perspective, but we have also taken these negotiations seriously or the way the commitments of the past governments are realized. This is not a classic negotiation, but a way of realizing the commitments of the past governments. We are negotiating within a specific financial mandate. I'm not going to correct you when you've summarized what was actually going on here, but I have to say that you haven't either gotten it right or understood the reality. There weren't any stalls. The moment we reached the end of the financial mandate, when we reached the point where we no longer actually had the government's mandate to give further concrete solutions, within which we abolish salary anomalys, of course we went to the government with the report and requested an additional mandate. The government negotiating group had a concept, and it also has it, if you've been closely monitoring what's been going on all this time. We started by saying that the Ministry of Finance was in the position that we had to pay these additional requirements ourselves, but then we agreed to provide additional financial resources, because otherwise the budgetary perspective and the situation in the police would be even worse. I couldn't let that happen, and I didn't even agree to it. You also mentioned the equipment. True, the equipment was part of the sentence requirements, but I think it is entirely unjustifiable because the provision of equipment, that is, security for the work of police officers, is a permanent task for both the ministry and the police. That's what we've come to. We have already carried out public contracts in the past year, and we are continuing this year, when we will make some very large purchases to improve police equipment, because, however, our police officers also need to ensure safe work. The concept of a government negotiating group is being met; the government negotiating group has done its job well; at this point we have provided or offered approximation proposals of more than €7 million. I estimate that the government negotiating group has done its job well. The negotiations are not yet concluded. I suppose tomorrow will continue, although the invitations have not yet been sent, but since we also have responsibilities in the National Assembly tomorrow, I expect that we will continue tomorrow. Of course, we have already brought our negotiating points closer to a certain extent, but we are financially limited. It should also be stressed that the comprehensive regulation of the police's career salary system in these negotiations will not be resolved. However, it is certainly one of my fundamental priorities to fully regulate the status of a police officer. In the context of these approximate proposals, which we have submitted to both trade unions, so when we offer systemic measures, we take into account, on the one hand, agreements on wage measures, which also bring for police officers a significant increase or improvement in their status, then we eliminate these key anomalies resulting from the subordination of certain police jobs. So we went to the most burdened jobs in the police because the work of a police officer has changed a lot in recent years, and it is right that these anomalies are also being eliminated. That is why my position has always been that the requirements are legitimate and that it is necessary to find a way to make this happen. It is true, however, that the public financial framework is limited. It is also true that the career system or wage system of public servants does not fully meet the needs of the police, so this is also one of my priorities, and also in the context of these negotiations, on which I expect, of course, that we will be able to bring our views closer together in a short time. And, as it is said, the financial framework is limited, but I think that the government negotiating group has done its job extremely well because we have made quite a few approximate proposals worth more than €7 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek you request no. [[…]] Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, good-bye! Today, part of the issue has been raised as regards the tax registers, but in a completely different direction than I hope to ask. And I also hope to get specific answers. On one of the previous questions, the Minister has already answered how tax registers are operating in early 2016, in particular in February, when representatives of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia were given full powers to operate in accordance with the Law on tax clearance of accounts. It was said that some 2,000 offences had been found, a little less than 10% of the irregularities and 44,000 euros of fines, if I had written down earlier. In the beginning, I'm curious, Mr. Secretary-General: Will you follow your projections by continuing at the same pace as you did in early 2016, showing that the state budget based on the penalty and based on the full operation of the tax register will receive between €50 million and €100 million? I am also interested in the figures, which are specific at this point in time as regards the costs of setting up the tax registers, namely, on the part of the State which is likely to have had to hire someone or change something within the financial administration. But above all, I want to know: How many taxpayers have already set up a tax box? How many more are there who still use the bound ledger? How can you encourage people, or all those concerned with this law, to be up to one? 1. 2017 set up a tax box? Above all, I am interested in: At this first stage, what are the tax effects on agriculture, trade, the economy, tourism and perhaps social activities? I am also pressured by the representatives of agriculture who decide not to participate in agricultural markets anymore, and by the smaller craftsmen who say that those who formerly pursued the grey economy are also doing so, and especially by the various representatives of small companies who ask who the devil will still be working in various sports, cultural, youth, pension, firefighting and I do not know what kind of societies, since the country gives them, for those 500 or thousands of Euros of annual traffic, abnormal requirements for the establishment of tax goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Dusan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I also got my first question about two weeks ago, what are the effects of the introduction of tax registers. Of course, in terms of how much budget revenue there is, this is far too early to assess. Let me essentially give you the answer to all your questions, as far as possible today. Thus, this tax clearance of invoices is compulsory for all entities which are subject to VAT rules to issue an invoice for goods delivered and services provided and receive payment in cash, as defined by the law. Since the introduction of the new system, it has not been complete for two months, and the information needed to assess the impact of the introduction of tax clearance on the state budget is not yet available is too short a period. In addition, we did not carry out this in-depth inspection in January. From the point of view of government revenue, we expect in 2016, from the measure of this tax box, EUR 75 million of additional tax revenue in the budget. The financial management will monitor and analyse a range of different data and links between them in order to determine the effectiveness of the measure. The financial impact monitoring reports will include a comparison of the time series of the different accounts, the mandatory duties and the financial effects of the tax clearance measure. The preparation of data and analyses shall be conditioned by the time dynamic in the transmission of accounts. In the area of value added tax, if we now go to individual taxes, we can expect first assessments in mid-May 2016. All accounts for the first trimesters of 2016 will be delivered up to 30. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, in the field of corporate income tax and business income tax, the effects of the introduction of these tax receipts will not be assessed until 2016 after the levy has been paid by the debtors no later than 31. 3. 2017. In terms of costs, you also asked, the introduction of tax registers should be pointed out that the action plan adopted by the Government last February 2015 contains an estimate of the costs of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the introduction of information support for the operation of the tax system of EUR 2 million. The actual costs of upgrading the system amounted to approximately €1.7 million, which is less than anticipated. With regard to the impact of tax warehouses on the economy, trade and agriculture, it is not yet possible to assess. The specific impact of tax warehouses on individual activities will be assessed after receipt of the entity’s financial statements for 2016, this is said in 2017. At the same time, we explain in particular that, in terms of the obligation to issue invoices, implement VAT legislation or the scope of tax obligations, the system of tax clearance of accounts does not bring about changes. The change is only in the way the accounts are issued. I'm very sorry, but it's a little early. We'll know about VAT there somewhere in May. These will be the first serious reviews. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please, you are requesting a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you, Minister. Of course, we are barely at the beginning of the introduction of tax receipts, although the law has been in force since July 2015. I didn't expect very specific numbers, because they're not possible. And I want to know: Or have you received any calls at this time, from July 2015 until the end of February 2016, from the Ministry to make these tax returns, if any, more in line with the common agricultural intelligence? I listen to the case of smaller craftsmen every week, and smaller farmers who, as I said before, sell at a farmer's market. Is it possible that the ministry is thinking that these smaller legal entities would somehow not be forgiven, but would call for an annual lump sum following the example of countries north of us? On the other hand, would it be possible to let smaller societies, which are some local societies in different areas that have less than €5 or €10 000 per year, so that they are somehow exempted? Because you can't burden on one side of the representatives of the financial administration that – at least that's what I'm told by colleagues who are employed in the financial administration, who were customs officers before – they're hunting small fish, they're dealing with a farmer who sells eggs, or they're hunting societies where they have problems taking their members on a trip. Will you deal with the tax receipts of the great swindlers? We also had an urgent meeting of the Committee on Education and Finance and a decision to hold until 18. 2. The Ministry of Finance shall examine the arguments presented and publish the position on sales of products in school bazaars. I haven't seen that answer yet. At this stage, I'm curious: Is it planned to amend the Law on tax clearance of accounts in 2016?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u150	Certain proposals are coming, that's what he's holding, to the Ministry. We collect them and study them in one package. It should be noted, however, that the law has barely been adopted, barely established on the principle that the exception is practically not for those who pay VAT. From a theoretical tax point of view, this is also the most correct approach, less than an exception, the lower tax rates can be, the broader the coverage. Of course, I agree with you that where things are completely illogical, other solutions need to be found. So I'm not thrilled to fix the marriage quickly, because when it's accepted, it needs to be done, seen, analyzed, but if you see some serious anomalies, such corrections are possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbic will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, what a lovely greeting! We have been able to see in the media that the Ministry of Public Administration has set up an application or information solution for a Statistician that allows for the review and analysis of public procurement data. The application is intended to simplify the review and analysis of a large amount of information on public procurement and to ensure, for the first time, a comprehensive, direct and up-to-date publication of data by public procurement in the Republic of Slovenia. The application is intended to provide a simple and very flexible review of public procurement in the country. In this way, the user should be able to obtain, inter alia, information on who is the largest contracting authority of a particular state, what the State is ordering, what and where local communities and public institutions are ordering or which are the most public procurement organisations. Dear Minister, please explain in more detail the purpose of the application and what its added value is given that there is already a public procurement portal where all the data is selected. I'm also curious: What activities does the Ministry of Public Administration still carry out to increase transparency in public administration? What importance do you personally give to the field of transparency? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Koprivnikar will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you, Chairman. Member of Parliament, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for this question, because this area is particularly close to me, because you know that the activities we are carrying out within the Ministry of Public Administration are very much in favour of the so-called pro-active transparency, so that we provide the data available to the country, and even more, we also produce tools that increase the information value of this data. Also, many of the problems that we have been facing lately in sayings are the result of the transparency of irregularities being identified, eliminated and gone. However, if there are no tools to detect imprudentity or mispractice, then they will not be eliminated. This is also supported by the Statistics tool, which operates on the public procurement portal and fully summarises the data already published on the public procurement portal, but in a way that analyses can be carried out transparently and easily. As you yourself have mentioned, over a large amount of data, who is the contracting authority, what is the State ordering, what is ordering, what is ordering local communities, public institutions, who acquires the highest number of orders, what is the procedure by which they carry out public contracts, how open they are, how expensive they are by other procedures, they show to the public as well as to the public, when and in which areas this activity may be suspected of being irregular, or how easy it is to have a better review of who the country is operating with and how transparent this operation is actually carried out. [[…]] In addition, we carry out a variety of systemic activities that go towards greater openness to the functioning of the system, because I firmly believe that where the system is very transparent, very transparent, there is also a possibility of abuse less and simply does not occur after abuse is established, if the system is very transparent. We are looking for this transparency mainly in three areas. One is that the rules themselves are adopted transparently, in a clear procedure, which also includes all key stakeholders at an early stage in order to make contracts transparently – so, for example, the last amendments to the Public Information Access Act. The Public Procurement Act has brought about the fact that it is also possible to look into public procurement contracts themselves. And if you check through the Statistics portal what an authority has placed in public contracts, then check through the supervisor also the actual operation of this body, then the so-called cross-check is enabled and the potential for abuse or some of the clientistic unwarranted connections is significantly lower. However, the third is that we want the public to be aware of the use of public funds, not only through public procurement, including through the publication of data on salaries and other spending, which the public sector actually burdens also on the taxpayers. These measures for only greater transparency, I think, can compensate for what the state will never be able to afford in enough content, i.e. a sufficient number of inspection bodies that would constantly and every one and every one of them. With transparency, we actually introduce a system of so-called passive control, where media, individuals, citizens, and ultimately competition can actually check what is going on. And here we are forced to do business openly and transparently. In the field of legislation, I would mention only projects that are being tested at this moment, the so-called SME test. This is a tool that is already being tested and will show how much an individual regulation actually affects the costs of an individual, the costs of an undertaking before it is introduced. Because today we are still often faced with the practice that these influences are undervalued, so we are also trying to raise this to a higher level. Above all, I would like to point out that, in the field of rules, transparency, public procurement in addition to legislation and regulatory arrangements, we are giving a great deal of emphasis to training. Thus, training contracting authorities to understand that laws are preparing better public contracts, to properly define selection criteria, because, in my firm belief, here is the essence of the problem and not in the law itself. That is why we will continue in this direction. I would point out once again that the tools for viewing or analysing public data are not intended, if I may put it that way, to hunt witches, but are designed to detect and eliminate irregularities, either intentional or unintentional. They need to be removed. And with these tools, the easiest way to find them is to stop their continuation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, before, I can say that for more than half a year here in the National Assembly, I have repeatedly stressed that if any crisis was somehow predictable, the crisis with migrants, with this migratory flow, which knocked last September 18th also at the door of the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, I learned from the municipal commander of the fire liaison that in our centre in Blackwood, in a hotel that was closed, there would be refugees living there that night. That's what the mayor of Lenart has found out with me. Janez Kramberger. We took you downtown that night, we looked at the operation of the center, so some ad hoc variant, I can tell you, a whole bunch of jobs that were called there. I can say, fortunately for the professional attitude towards this work, the first shock was somehow corrected. Then I was in the center the second day. The second day I looked at these people's first diet, and I looked at the composition of these people, and I looked at the relationship with these people, and I looked at the end of the journey of these people to the Šentilj border crossing in Austria. At that time, I also made a number of proposals. The first proposal was, of course, that neither the local community nor I, as a Member, were informed at all that Black Wood would be one of the predictable locations at the time for the temporary accommodation of these people. This was also reported by the municipal council, reported Mayor Lenart Mag. Kramberger, that's what I was talking about. After that, I made a number of suggestions to say, the big problems of these migrants, so behind the Hotel Black Wood in Lenart there is also a highway connecting the location between Kopro and Lendava. At the time, a number of migrants even walked across the highway, walked along the main road, and made some suggestions. So, as we know, at the time, they also rejected the food, they threw aside the clothes they got, right by the road, they threw away the most expensive cans, tuna with vegetables and that sort of thing, they rejected the warm meals. I've given you a whole range of initiatives, and I've asked you, first of all, how is communication and what all these problems you've been predicting, and whether you have solutions to all these problems, or whether you're ready for the next wave of these refugees. As you know, I spoke to you several times in the hallway last year, giving you some solutions. I'm interested. Why, above all, did you not communicate with the local community or with the Members coming from this area where all these centres will be in the future? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Minister Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u158	Dear Member Breznik, I thank you for your question. As such, the migrant crisis was no surprise, for which we have been preparing for almost a year or more. In this segment, we have also paid particular attention to information, in particular to local communities, because we believe that cooperation with the local community is also essential for the successful management of migration flows, because, however, local communities are the ones most burdened, including with this migratory flow. That is why we are also trying to get as close as possible to the requirements of the local community and also to answer all their outstanding questions and concerns. Before taking decisions on the location of the accommodation and reception centres, the Ministry of the Interior always consults the local community, this is our special concern, we coordinate with it and we also inform all new information. Cooperation with local communities is ensured in a variety of ways, both through personal visits and discussions, both I, the State Secretary and other employees at the Ministry, if necessary for professional reasons, including with the discussions of government representatives in these local communities. Some 70 interviews were recorded, but more were actually conducted, which means that information was actually provided. This is one of the priorities of our work in the context of managing this migratory flow. Information is also provided through cooperation in the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and also through the entry of the Ministry of Public Administration and the Service for Local Self-Government. We also regularly inform the National Assembly at both committees and meetings, as well as the Council of State, where representatives of local communities also sit, so that I believe that the flow of information is extremely burdensome in this given situation, but we are also paying great attention to information, and we are putting our best efforts at it in short. We also had several meetings with the mayors and representatives of the municipalities. However, there is something else to point out, most locations have already been identified in the first wave of migrants and we did not need them for a while because of the situation, but we never removed them from this list. The list of sites is also available on the Ministry of the Interior website and is also updated from the point of view, so it is very updated. Since September, we have already published a list of all possible sites on the website, because, of course, we are in a strong position or we cannot deny that the public has the right to be informed of all the facts available and of the complete information that there is no disinformation and all the other harmful processes that do not help solve this extremely complex problem. In the future, we will also inform all decisions on possible new sites. In any case, we will try to approach local communities to the greatest extent possible and to listen to their concerns. I believe that communication between government representatives and local communities as well as the National Assembly is appropriate. Of course, Members, you always have the opportunity to address the Ministry of the Interior as well, and we will respond to everything you are interested in. After all, you are representatives of the people and you may also need more information for your work. We have kept information on both existing locations and activities to find new ones. However, we have always answered all the specific questions if these questions have arisen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, you're requesting a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you very much. See, Madam Minister, on 19 September 2015, in the morning, I attended an extraordinary meeting of the civil protection municipal headquarters at that time. Both the representative of the Civil Protection Authority and the representative of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue, as well as the Director of the Lenart School of Health, as well as me and the mayor, as well as the representative of the municipal administration, have not received either for the operation of the migrant centre, nor for the establishment of the migrant centre, except of course for the Directorate of Protection and Rescue, which has resolved according to its plans, I think that the flood plan or something like that has been established, no one has received special instructions for the work of migrant centres at the time. There was no information. Municipal authorities in Lenart were informed, they saw on the website two days ago that this was the intended centre, everything else, no questions of local self-government. Even in this second part, when you are re-establishing the centre, and this is now a center as some external exhibition of the previous centre in Postojna, Black Wood, which is not suitable, for the first time, is our hotel in Slovenian Gorica, which is intended for our tourism, Slovenian Goriski, is absolutely necessary, we do not have these accommodations. As you know, this hotel now has Probank in bankruptcy, it's supposed to even get EUR 9,000, which will get Probank in bankruptcy for rent. But people weren't informed again. Therefore, on 18 February an extraordinary meeting of the municipal council was held where the mayor, the councillors and I met, and we made it clear to your representatives at this meeting that we had not been informed, that no one had even asked us. And one more thing, this new status of this centre, which will be in Blackwood, will include those migrants who have been rejected, who pose a greater security risk. So once again, this communication has not been established at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u162	Actually, in addition to what I've already said in the introduction, I have nothing to add. I am still in the position that information is going well, that we are making great efforts to inform the local community, but of course there is always room for improvement. If this is necessary, of course, we will also make greater efforts in the future to ensure that the local community is better informed. In fact, it should also be stressed that in certain situations there may be a feeling that there is a lack of information, including one way to express disagreement. We also understand and appropriately incorporate this into all our future actions and plans, so that we get as close as possible to the concerns and demands of local communities. As I said earlier today, accommodation capacities are needed because the alternative is actually dispersion. With regard to all the measures taken by the Government, there will be certain congestions in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and it is also necessary to ensure that these people do not wander and that they are adequately installed to resolve their status, so that some will ask for asylum, some will return to their countries, some will return to Croatia, some will return to their countries of origin, and some will simply go to their countries of destination if they succeed. Of course, in the future we will ensure that the local community is properly informed. However, if you need more information from Members, we are always available to you, too, Mr Breznik, if you are interested in anything, you can always contact us so that you can do your job in the local community even better.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Beznik, will you request a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I will, of course, request a discussion on the basis of the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly. First of all, the situation regarding accommodation in Blackwood has not been known either by the mayor nor by municipal councillors, some also by your party, the distinguished Madam Minister, not now that this home is granted a new status, so the status where the potential danger will be increased will be inhabited by refugees who have lost, that is, those who have no domain or who have not received it in Germany, Austria and will be returned to their home countries. This is therefore a higher security risk. The hotel has no bars, so the dispersion you're talking about shows contradiction. Because you have not implemented measures already in September at the border, because you have not closed borders because you have not carried out triage, people have come to Europe, many of whom will not be granted status. So they'll be returned to their home countries. And dispersion means reducing the safety risk. Dispersion also means higher costs on the one hand. Each such centre then needs to be maintained, it needs to be heated, it needs its own security, it needs maintenance and so on. Those are the questions. People who might really need help: children, women and vulnerable groups will be less assisted because there are mostly speculators, people who were migrants, that is, those economic migrants who pose a greater security risk. And that's the basis. And the basis is also that the citizens of Lenart and Lenartčank have not informed your ministry that this will now be an external exposure to the Permanent, to present a greater security risk. That is why people, which according to farm logic, in the Slovenian Goricas who paid for this, if I say domestically, international smuggling to Germany where they were promised, can say, the heavens on Earth: women, money, houses, beautiful cars, everything without work. Now these people will be rejected. I can only imagine what anger will be in these people. There'd be anger in us, too. I don't want to label them with people who are extremists, but now this anger is about to start, and this anger is on us. We are guilty because we have not taken into account that we must exercise some sovereignty ourselves for the past September to leave more than half a million people to walk freely through the Republic of Slovenia. Those were my findings back then. And these centres, the esteemed minister, you know that the anger of the people is great, why you force these rural centers. Ljubljana wants, fellows, for example, the United Left wants, even invites these migrants, these economic migrants to Ljubljana, I don't know why you don't put these centres in Ljubljana, in the centre of Ljubljana. I was a volunteer myself in 1995, helping people from Yugoslavia who were really running from war, even helping financially, collecting help for them, even settling them in one of the weekends. I do not know why the colleagues of the United Left, who so desire these economic migrants, do not be able to accommodate them here in Ljubljana and around. So you have two problems solved and also a lower cost, dear Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 1. 3. In the context of the votes. He will now ask the question of Mrs Matej Tašner Vatovec to the Minister of Health, Ms Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! In Slovenia we have been watching for a long time the growth of so-called bona ambulance, first in Ljubljana, then in Cyprus and also in Maribor, which provides health services to people without supplementary health insurance. With a publicly recognised healthcare system, a parallel system, a parallel ambulance system for the socially disadvantaged, is thus established, which is financed only by voluntary contributions and in which healthcare professionals work on a voluntary basis. The fourth such infirmary in Nova Gorica opens these days, and probably the fifth in Velenje. At the time of the establishment of this infirmary in Nova Gorica, we have witnessed a lot of bureaucratic obstacles and complications that have led to the opening of this infirmary. For bono outpatients now have no place in the network of health institutions and they also do not have any regulated standards applicable to health facilities, equipment, staff and so on, according to the criteria under which they are to operate. As a matter of fact, they are left to state officials, who sometimes for a very long or long time deal with their applications to carry out their activities, as this time in the case of the Bono outpatients in Nova Gorica. It has been waiting for the Ministry's approval for a long time, and it is already qualified to save the health and life of people from the social fabric. Although these ambulances are being set up on the one hand for the praiseworthy philanthropic work of healthcare professionals who do all of this, I repeat, voluntarily and people in distress, offering health care that is unlikely to be received elsewhere, these ambulances, on the other hand, are in some way also a silence to the state to continue to systematically undermine the universal accessibility of the health system. In the face of an increasing lack of access to health services for bono outpatients, they ensure that people at the margins of society still receive a minimum of health services. The fact that the number of bono outpatients and the number of their patients is actually increasing all the time suggests a certain flaw in the health policies of this country. That's why I'm asking you two: Do you intend to take any action to establish clearer and simpler rules for establishing a bono ambulance? Do you see or understand the growth of the number for the bono ambulance as a sign of the non-operation of the universal accessibility system of health services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Your Honor! You are right to note that there are currently three pro bono outpatients in Slovenia, these are outpatient clinics for people without health insurance. Visitors to these outpatients are persons who, because of different circumstances, do not have regulated compulsory insurance, as this is legally dependent on different conditions, in particular this compulsory insurance depends on a specific status of a person; it should be a work relationship or have a pensioner, a farmer or a citizen who pays this compulsory insurance, or persons who have a permanent residence are not insured under another status. All these statuses are listed in the current Health and Health Insurance Act. Usually, however, persons who visit these pro bono outpatients do not have any of those status, or because of the different social circumstances in which they are in a position to pay compulsory health insurance, for example, such persons may be entrepreneurs with a debt of unpaid health insurance contributions, self-payers who, due to the irregular payment of their contribution, have retained rights to health services, except for emergency treatment. They may then be persons without permanent residence, homeless persons, foreigners who do not have an orderly residence permit and have been living in the Republic of Slovenia for a long time. Thus, a number of persons may be in such a situation where they do not have compulsory insurance, either because of social economic circumstances or because they have not regulated the status and paid for this compulsory insurance, even as natural persons, because we know that we have specific provisions, this monthly contribution is relatively small, below €23.25. As you have rightly found, these pro bono outpatients work on a voluntary basis, in accordance with the Voluntary Act. Let me say that the Ministry is now, I think, preparing a third year in a row for a public invitation to tender for a bono ambulance. We authorised them to finance their programmes 100%, i.e. the amounts they asked for, in 2015 and 2016 they will receive a co-financed 100% programme from the ministries. With regard to all unprotected persons, let me say that we, already from the Ministry of Health in the budget line of our Ministry, are providing for the payment of emergency treatment for all uninsured persons in need of this treatment, we have given a little less than a million funds in the past year for these purposes, so that all, including those who are uninsured, receive the necessary treatment, are paid from the budget or the ministry under its heading. Of course, in the light of the work so far, the Ministry will make further efforts to address this current problem, since, as you know, we have also set ourselves equal access to health services in a resolution for one of the objectives. Of course, we will continue to support these pro bono outpatients in advance. With regard to the establishment itself, you know that the establishment of this pro bono ambulance can be very varied, from the congregation to social work centres, Karitas and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u169	Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, you have the floor to request an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thanks again. Yeah, now, apart from agreeing with my findings or my question, I don't think I got what I wanted to answer. The decline in the availability of public health services and, on the other hand, the growth of the ambulance voucher at the same time has been continuously accompanied by the growth of the concessionaires in recent years. Now, on the one hand, in recent years, the country has granted massive concessions to carry out health-care activities, which, of course, serve the private sector, and, on the other hand, in the case of a voucher, there are some bureaucratic obstacles that in some way make it difficult to establish these pro bona ambulances, whose meaning we have underlined in some way both. I would like to draw attention here to Article 51 of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to health care under the conditions laid down by law. The Health Care Act in its second article states that everyone has the right to the highest possible level of health and that everyone has the right to healthcare. Now, for a bono ambulance or their patients, there is evidence that this is not such that the State does not guarantee or does not wish to grant these constitutionally defined rights, such an even distribution of healthcare. So, actually, at this point, he's transferring his duties to doctors of volunteers and good Samaritans who are buying drugs and so on. The first pro bono ambulance was established in 2001 with the hope of being closed within one to three years. Today, after 15 years, there are 900 patients and 400 to 500 patients per day. Here again I would like to highlight or hear the answer to the questions: How do you intend to make healthcare accessible to all citizens regardless of their social situation? How to ensure the smoothest possible establishment for the bono ambulance? Why is it not from bureaucratic obstacles to the establishment of concessionary ambulances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you very much. In order to complete my reply, I give the floor to Minister Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you for saying that again. So you're right in the part where you say that in the past concessions have been widely distributed both at the local or primary level and at the secondary level. In a very short time, this National Assembly will have the opportunity to address changes and additions to the Health Action Act, as this award will be arranged in a much more transparent, equitable and transparent manner. With regard to accessibility itself, as I mentioned in the fact, the problem of these people is either in status itself, it is said, they do not have a regulated status, because if they had, they could enter a compulsory health insurance system or, I would say, a problem of social economic weakness that, of course, even as a natural person, compulsory insurance cannot be settled. In this context, we will work in greater ways on changes to the system's legislation, and it will definitely be one to try to better define the status and the way in which and who enters the compulsory health insurance system. Socially weak, as is already the case, is being paid by the country from the budget, so that, of course, emergency and necessary health care is provided today. I find it difficult to comment on the obstacles to establishing a pro bono outpatient because I do not know this obstacle in detail. As we know, at least in these pro bono ambulances so far it has not been a problem because they are usually founders at local level, for example, the case in Cyprus, where the co-founder is also the Koper Health House, which has changed its statutes for these purposes through the Institute's Council. You may think more about the problem of hiring doctors and other health workers, where voluntary work requires the implementation of the Law on Volunteering, as well as the Law on the Work of Doctors of Trainees, when they can work voluntarily. This will be regulated by the Health Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the answer to your question at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you. Of course, people at the social bottom are systematically violated the right to access health services, perhaps their status or other circumstances, but this is in some way a fact. In Slovenia, we have more than 14 thousand people in the FURS data, who are health insurance, but their right to such insurance is reserved for reasons that they cannot pay all health insurance contributions on time and on a regular basis. The irony in this case is that the vast majority of these backward contributions are paid either by delay or by FURS by execution. Thus, we have a situation where these contributions are paid, and for many years then the beneficiaries cannot go to a health facility because their medical card is blocked. Although the Health Insurance Office receives paid contributions, the payers are still unable to use health services. For bono outpatients, they are the last security guard to ensure that at least the same minimum measure is still exercised by the Constitution and the law of certain rights for which the state should take care does not do so. For this reason, I propose that a general debate be held at the next regular meeting on this issue in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u175	Jehovah’s Witnesses, 1 / 1 3. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. Mr Simon Zajc will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Mr Dejan Židan and Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Secretary, Mr. Secretary! According to the World Food Organisation data, 1.3 billion tonnes of food are discarded annually, which translates into money into $680 billion in developed countries and $310 billion in developing countries. This leads to at least two problems, two problems. One is environmental, i.e. about 3.3 billion tonnes of greenhouse gases or 7% of all greenhouse gases come from this discarded food. On the other hand, on one side of this fabulous billions of tons of food, we push aside, and on the other hand, people are still starving because of hunger, even in the developed world there are hungry people among us while we are throwing food away. Otherwise, at the level of Slovenia, these data may be a little more encouraging. For 2013, according to my data, we dumped about 72 kilograms of food per inhabitant, which is a significant improvement in 2008 when we dumped 197 kilograms of food per inhabitant. However, if we look at the European average, which is about 123 kilograms, in fact data for Slovenia are encouraging, we have now reduced from 74% to 23% in the period 2008-2013. But despite all this encouraging information, this does not mean that we have to stop dealing with this problem. As regards the environmental and waste management aspects, it is biological waste that is the most problematic in terms of contribution to greenhouse gases, as it is mostly decomposes into landfill gases, around 90% and the rest into draining water. And in these gases, methane is mainly methane, and methane is problematic from this point of view because, as far as global warming is concerned, it is 25 times more effective than, say, CO2, although CO2 is about 80%, methane is only 10%. Just because it is so much more effective, it is a gas that needs to be paid attention and not ignored. At the end of 2015, the European Commission adopted a new package for the district economy, the goal being to reduce discarded food by half by 2030, and our government has done the same by adopting a framework programme for the transition to the green economy. About a month ago, the government also organized a consultation entitled For Slovenia Without Rejected Food, how do we proceed? And now I want to know at this point: What exactly are our governments or your ministries doing in this area? Thanks for the answer, both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. [[No, no, ……]] Then the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs. Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, Mr Simon Zajc, for the question raised, which is certainly up to date. Initially, I would only say that the package of measures presented in 2014 was withdrawn, but envisaged a reduction of the waste of food origin by half, while the new package foresees a reduction of the limits, in fact the disposal of municipal waste in landfills by 10%. There are some problems in monitoring, if I'm talking about waste now. The holder of the methodology for monitoring, production of waste food is the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia in Slovenia, but of course all the resources are involved. But it is that waste is produced in food preparation, i.e. it is biodegradable, and of course you go to the compost where it is processed, a slightly different path is the waste generated in the meat processing industry, where it can be used for meat and bone flour. While there is not yet the right way, especially for households, to determine how much food is actually waste within these biological wastes. This is also in some sense difficult to monitor, so that the future will show whether this will be possible to monitor in some of the sample parts, the families. In general, I think that this monitoring methodology is too expensive. This does not mean that we are not dealing with this issue at the Ministry of Environment and Space, but that we are concluding a draft waste development programme, which has been put into public debate and within it a waste prevention programme. In a few days, this public debate will be concluded and, of course, after proposals to come out of the field, we will draw up these two government reception programmes. Beyond what has now been presented to the public, our ministry has set itself targets, promoting the reduction of food waste, efforts to reduce waste food, and we call it by 2030 50%. On my own, I say many times that food is not waste, that all other processing options must be taken care of, that food is not actually given to waste. It is also about promoting a change in the school curriculum, with a greater emphasis on education. We know that in the first phase, through kindergarten education and in schools, of course, we have achieved that, in fact, Slovenia can be a model in the first place after sorting waste and many European countries. They also come to us and, of course, ask about it. We are also working to support organisations in advertising, campaigns, conferences and other projects to promote programmes of good practice in reducing waste food. Where does this waste food come from most of all? In food production, industry, trade and crafts, social institutions, large kitchens and catering, household and public administration. I am sure that if we start these programmes, we will also be able to achieve great success. The fact is that people's awareness of food is also highly favored that food is not waste. It is true, however, that thinking and the advantages of using locally produced food must also be encouraged, for all that you have said is true. And such locally produced food is of high value, and its carbon footprint is, of course, inappropriately smaller than for food that travels through countries and countries before it reaches the user. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Zajc, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u180	I have already raised my main concerns or questions, but I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Agriculture. One thing is waste that comes from food production, and the other thing is food itself. We know that countries are already facing this, and they have also banned, for example, stores from postponing or throwing food away. I want to know: To what extent do we think in our competent ministry of food? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr Member, for the very current question. If we do not solve problems with excessive waste food, we do not mathematically have the opportunity to solve the problem of world hunger. That's what you need to know. The main food discards are produced in the following areas: the first is in the producers themselves, i.e. in the fields, for two reasons, due to uniform demand and the inability to sell during the peak season. We are solving this in this way, we are mitigating standards, so that even if it may not have the ideal color tomato, it is possible to sell it, and at the same time we are financially supporting processing facilities and storage capacities that serve at the time of the surplus. This year alone, 150 million calls will be made by our ministry. Up to this point, I think we have already tendered 32 million euros this year. Many of these can be used to co-finance the solution to this problem. The second surplus of food produced is in transport routes. Here, ladies and gentlemen, you have also adopted an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which introduces a new argument. That's an environmental argument. The environmental argument is just an argument of the length of the transport route. We are now adapting this to the use of public tendering for public institutions. The next surplus of food produced is in commercial systems. This is the area where we have been most successful in recent months and years. At the moment, more than 160 local shopping centres are involved in the donation of food surpluses or food before the expiry of the deadline, still useful food. On the inside, interviews with mayors of local communities are taking place to provide humanitarian organisations with additional areas where sorting would take place and then facilitate the transport of food to those who need it. This is happening right now. I must say that it is also happening that the main NGO involved has set up a separate HACCP. It is also in line with the principles of good production and safety practices. Since there was a feeling that there was a lot of excess food in the public kitchens, it was found that the surpluses were not so much. And also where there are surpluses, this is a sign of the irrationality of production and they have to reduce production, because these are public kitchens, which are often financed by public money. So there is not some very large reserve, but there we are also preparing a state HACCP standard that will be able to help them. Finally, let me tell you, according to our available information, the largest surplus food is still produced in households. That's 42% of food, too much bought, too long in the fridge, too much cooked food. Here we will have to go in the next period into an action to inform Slovenian consumers. This will be the only way to reduce household excess food. Thank you for asking me again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask the outgoing question to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! By means of a coalition agreement, the current government has committed itself to promoting organisational rationality and to modernising and improving the rationality of the organisation of public administrations. One of the commitments is also a review of the already developed baselines for the introduction of administrative sites, where their possible introduction should be based on the integration of different national authorities at territorial level in order to ensure more efficient management of services, to bring services closer to users and to avoid unnecessary costs for reorganisation. These commitments, however, are not actually carried out by the ruling coalition. Since the beginning of the mandate, every national authority has clearly been left with a complete reorganisation process, such as the Geodetec Authority of the Republic of Slovenia and the Financial Administration, which in the last year and a half have carried out the reorganisation of their services in a way that allows them to move their exhibitions or offices from many, including larger towns and cities to other city centres, thus moving away from users, for whom the operation at territorial level is still important in terms of quality of life, accessibility to public authorities and not least in terms of maintaining jobs. The centralisation of the functioning of the State authorities, which has been carried out over the last two years, and in particular the way it is implemented, also indicates that the Ministry of State does not implement the adopted strategy for the development of public administration from 2015-2020 and is in fact more remote from users. This makes the poor of the more peripheral regions, which, due to the age structure of the population, have poorer computer literacy and poor links to public transport increasingly difficult living conditions. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Have you given your consent to the reorganisations already carried out by the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, as far as they relate to the functioning of these bodies at local level? How will you ensure the implementation of the public administration development strategy, which is the response, success and effectiveness of the user-oriented public administration? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for that question. In the opening, let me say that I did not give consent to the reorganisation of the FURS and GURS, nor did anyone ask me about it, nor is it the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Administration to give consent to the organisation of other ministries and their bodies in the composition. This is often a misunderstanding that I face when they believe that the Ministry of Public Administration has the authority to organise other bodies. This is not the case, but it is true that we have adopted a strategy for the development of public administration, in which we have also committed ourselves to these guidelines. That is why I am particularly pleased to draw your attention to our collective commitment. However, at this point, I can say what we have actually done, because this claim that we are not implementing this strategy, we cannot agree with this statement and prove with the following: we have committed ourselves to carrying out the so-called effectiveness analysis function. We did it last year, we introduced it to the government in December, over 20,000 employees were involved and 240 authorities. In particular, presentations are now under way at individual ministries and we have defined seven key measures, one of which is the integration of the authorities in a given area, one of the fundamental seven measures that we are actually already implementing. Then we are centralising real estate management and information technology, which is important on the one hand for managing these subsystems, and on the other hand because we are now moving this merger to regional levels, it is said at local level that the management of real property and the management of information systems for those services for which the Ministry of Public Administration has undertaken the task is organised regionally. Moreover, in this way, we can have certain administrative centres, as we call them and operate in this direction, be responsible for carrying out a particular special task of professional or support, and this can be brought from Ljubljana to a particular region. For example, such an example is precisely because there is a minister of health, transfer, for example, an emergency centre in Maribor, which is not in Ljubljana, but employs, I think, about 40 workers, but has completely renovated premises. We are going in this direction to introduce administrative centres and in the field we are not acting in a way that is suddenly reorganising all systems, but with each change, relocation, even a variety of changes made by placing authorities, we are pursuing this goal to place them in one location. If I just say the case. In Maribor last year the administrative unit was moved from three locations to two; on Vožarska road we placed 12 inspections in an earlier empty building; in Ilirska Bistrica the building was rehabilitated and an administrative unit, FURS, GURS, agricultural acceleration service, employment agency and social work centre were placed together. This is a typical case where we concentrate all these organs in one place. The same is true in Cerknica, Šmar near Jelšah, when we moved to our own premises. That's how we work. However, you need to understand that we are moving in this direction every time we reshape an area, when we move an organ, always move to a so-called administrative centre, organize joint support services and thus maintain jobs on a particular location. However, you need to know that when, at least in our area of administrative units or exposition, whatever we take organisational action, we always look at statistics and always face a relationship, or ensure the accessibility of a service in a place or ensure the rationality of the performance of this service. If he has, say, one administrative unit three visits a day, it's very difficult to defend rationality. On the other hand, by combining various bodies, which are also followed by administrative centres, it may be possible to provide together what we call the front of a board or reception office, which means that a local can still file a case in his place, whether it is a new charter or something like that, this issue will be dealt with professionally at the administrative centre, while at the same time it will be returned to the citizen back in his home place. In this way, we reach a compromise that we do not have an overly dispersed support service, but that accessibility is closer. It is therefore necessary to unite and in fact we are already working in this direction, as I have said in cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Minister, for your explanation, but I would still like to highlight a concrete case from where I come from. You said, the administration centres are in place – yes, probably in certain regions, and certain administration centres are in need. A good year ago, the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia closed its office in Cerknica and the archive and moved workers to Logatec. This, as you said, is being done. Before the new year, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia closed its exhibition or office in Cerknica and moved its employees to Ljubljana. Yes, I think on Wednesdays there's an on-call worker like an administrative day at the Cerknica Management Unit. I think that for the area of the Cerknica Administrative Unit, under which we have three municipalities, and where we have an extraordinary number of municipalities, I think that almost the largest displacement and breadth of the area controlled by the Cerknica Administrative Unit is unacceptable to me personally, as well as to our citizens. However, as far as I have read in the media, the reorganisation of social work centres is also being announced. And the church centre for social work is supposed to pass under the jurisdiction of the Social Work Centre Postojna. Now I want to tell you that certain things people will go to the Logatec determined in Postojna and some in Vrhnika. Not to mention the reorganisation of the Health Insurance Institute, the Employment Service, and probably sooner than later, the Court. It's probably just a matter of time. What this means for the lives of the people in Cerknica – the celebration not only of the countryside but also of moving out of the area; for all those who will remain, as I said before, flying from Pontius to Pilate, from Postojna, Logatec, Vrhnika, Ljubljana. What are you going to do, Mr. Minister, against the already executed swastrian reorganizations that are seriously making the lives of our locals more difficult? You must know that from the Croatian border on one side we have a very wide path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Boris Koprivnikar to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u190	Once again, the Ministry of Public Administration is not responsible for the organisational structure of FURS, GURS, as well as the centres for social work. We cannot escape this responsibility, but you must understand that I cannot provide assurances as to what I will do about the organisation of the Financial Administration. I can't give these assurances! However, I can assure you, just as we did with a colleague from the Ministry of Labour at the time of the reorganisation of social work centres, that we do exactly what you have warned us to do to synchronize the network; that there is no social work centre in one place, but financial management in the other place, but that this network is being synchronized. This is what we have achieved in this case, and I can only say that I will continue to advocate that, in the spirit of implementing the public administration development strategy, we will also try to attract the remaining resources to work together on a single network of representation. But here we're going to run into a problem again when the question is, who in which place thinks it's more important that the headquarters of the administrative centre. Here it is important that we have a functional analysis, that we have a caseload, that we have empirical data on the basis of which we will be able to decide on the professional principles which are the places closest to the citizens and which will be the most effective organisation of these bodies provided by the State in the field. I can't see the other solution at the moment, or we'll run into the same problem as we have in the past few years, when it was not possible to agree on what this network will be based on non-empirical arguments. In the absence of this agreement, the network is becoming increasingly fragmented and gradually irrational. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will put the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A nice welcome to the ministers, especially the Minister of Infrastructure! I'm asking the minister: In the area of the registration of kayaks in view of last year’s complications, has he prepared a solution? Last year, before the beginning of the season or at the time of the season, the Inland Water Navigation Act, which imposes in Article 23 the obligation to register all boats, i.e. from this point of view also the so-called kayaks, was strictly implemented. Last year, it was found that this causes a lot of problems for users, but Slovenia is the only country that registers kayaks or requires the registration of kayaks. Last year, several interviews were held at the Ministry with interested economic operators, as well as with local communities affected. On the basis of these interviews, the Ministry has made a commitment, in some way, to develop a simplification of this registration in connection with and after consultation with the Slovenian Maritime Administration and the interested public, which will provide for a better and more friendly arrangement for the registration of vessels, and to in some way exclude the registration of kayaks from this obligation. In fact, this registration, as I said, causes a lot of problems for the users themselves, but not least imposes quite a lot of additional work on the administrative units which are in charge of implementing this law. This is, however, a similar requirement as if it were to require the registration of all bicycles rented and similar props intended for personal use. Now I ask in this question: Has anything been done in this area? In fact, the season of water sports is approaching again and I expect the Minister's response in a positive direction, because in his documents from last year, the Ministry has also committed itself in some way not to have problems similar to those of a similar question, which was linked to the obligation to register, which is otherwise not exactly the same story because we were talking about a regulation there, but in this case it is a law that has not been implemented since 2002, when it introduced this mandatory registration, practically until last year. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Dr. Peter Gaspersic, Minister of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Thank you for the questions raised, honourable Member. It is clear that this question of yours concerns the registration of kayaks and similar sports and recreation vessels with which economic activity is carried out and not the use of kayaks for personal purposes. In fact, the inland waterways law, as you have already mentioned, stipulates in Article 23 that sports boats, rowboats and boats less than 5 metres must not be registered, unless those boats are intended to carry out an economic activity. This legal provision – this law has already been adopted, as you mentioned, in 2002 – is based on the principle of greater protection of the occasional user who rents such vessels. Therefore, the person who receives the vessel in use shall ensure that the vessel is safe. At the Ministry, it is estimated that we cannot give up on this requirement of law after this kind of greater security, which must be provided to shipowners, but we would like to consider, in the light of the issues raised last year, the possibility of facilitating, simplifying and, above all, reducing these procedures. Although we have also found that the cost of reviewing and registering or renewing this registration of a vessel such as kayak is not very high, it is estimated to be around EUR 20, and that this cost could be reimbursed to this lessor relatively quickly, it is also within one day of renting. However, we are considering the possibility that, in terms of better ensuring this proportionality, they should join in amending the rules governing these charges to determine the ability of boats to sail, given the number of persons using the vessel. Currently, two charges are fixed in this Regulation, namely for boats which can carry up to 8 persons and over 8 persons. In fact, we are also considering the possibility of introducing another additional category with a lower fee for a vessel which can carry up to 3 passengers. We are also exploring the possibility of defining more precisely the vessels intended for sport and recreation and separating them from the so-called sports props such as, say, various canyoning boards and so on, where of course we will not require these matters to be registered. However, we are also considering the so-called organisational level measure, namely that the entry of kayaks and similar vessels with which an economic activity is carried out when new vessels with appropriate technical documentation are used to carry out this registration procedure at the same time as the authorisation procedure for carrying out such an economic activity on the competent administration of the unit. In short, the registration should also be included in one process. In short, all of these and similar measures we want to implement and anticipate that the existing and appropriate regulations will be amended before the start of the summer season, or we aim to change these matters in the month of April. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you for your answer, Your Honor. I note that nothing has been done since last year, despite the promises made, because your explanation is the same as that given in writing last year, as I said, because of the interested economic operators and also the municipalities that have turned to the Ministry. It is interesting that this piece of legislation has not been implemented from 2002 to 2015 and it is also, as I have told you, incomprehensible that a sports boat intended for one person is registered, and it is also a fact that no European Union country is required to do so in legislation. For in the kayak there is rowing alone, it is said, there is no talk of what you used to say, that it is more people and so on. I am also very interested in how the administrative unit will determine some safety, reliability, relevance of this vessel. It's a pure bureaucratic invention that someone wants to make. Same as we found at the time of the registration of the fall. In fact, whoever performs economic activity in this sense and performs some exercise in driving kayaks or rents is already responsible for their activities materially and also criminally in any event. If a kayak is registered in an administrative unit, security won't be much greater. The only officials will have a job, the Ministry will have fun with it, and users will just pay and have nothing to do with it. Therefore, I seriously remind you that, according to the promises made last year, you should approach this problem, because if not, the issue will escalate again in May.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u197	Thank you very much. To complement my reply, I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to stress that this is a request for entry, for the registration of these boats which are leased, so that the economic activity is carried out. Many of these matters are limited; therefore, the quantity is predictable. Therefore, it is not a matter of own use, who uses kayak, kanou for his own use, of course there is no need, no requirement for registration. Experts from the Maritime Administration will also be involved in this registration, so that some competence in this registration process will also be ensured. We expect that once these procedures have been implemented, they will become something normal, that they will not remain at this level as they have been until now, when these matters have simply not been carried out, even though they should have been carried out all this time since 2002, and these last years have required inspections to be carried out. We expect that these procedures, when they are fled, will also become completely acceptable. Once again, I stress that we will make sure that these costs are really as minimal and as simple as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! I should like to start by commending or saying that I am pleased with all the measures that have been taken to reduce, remove administrative barriers, rationalise business, and, above all, to make the state apparatus more friendly, especially to its citizens. Oh, yeah. The Court of Auditors concluded last May that the arrangements for the financing and operation of many public agencies, institutions, funds and so on are not the most effective. The law also does not fully apply to certain public agencies and public funds; there are many partial, sectoral rules that also regulate matters differently. On this occasion, I do not wish to attack or marginalise many state-owned such and other institutions, which have an important role to play in favour of citizens. However, I would like to point out that in this country we have a lot of different institutions, funds, agencies, institutions and so on, which we might consider, in terms of unifying, unifying or organising them in such a way that efficiency, rationality, economics are greater, but at the same time not only will the interests or services of citizens be affected, but they will increase. Some ministries, some institutions in this area, of course, are moving forward. I may mention this on this occasion, and we will also discuss this on the committee responsible, for the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund, a merger with the Human Resources Fund and a scholarship is planned and I see nothing wrong in this regard; even more, I see rationalisation, I see potential synergies and even more successful the functioning of the institution than that. Minister, I ask you on this occasion: Has the government already prepared the functional analysis that was promised on this occasion? Does it analyse the operation in this area? In the future, what measures can we expect the functioning of public institutions, agencies, funds and so forth to be more efficient, more cost-effective, even more rational, and in particular that it will have even greater and, of course, positive effects, which is also the basic point for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member! The government has carried out a functional analysis, has also presented it to the Government and is now actively presenting it to the Ministry of Field Affairs, as I previously answered your colleague with two questions sent back. The public agencies are 16 and the funds are 8. I keep stressing this information because we have the feeling that there are hundreds of agencies, but there are not, there are so many. Of course, we also have a number of institutions, institutes and other public sector organisations. With a functional analysis we covered 240 of these organisations, including all ministries, social work centres, administrative units, employment institutions and some others, and compared them with each other — including FURS, GURS and other organisations — in order to identify, on the basis of empirical data, how rationally these organisations are organised compared to others. Because the general belief is that agencies and funds are extremely irrational organisations, it turns out that this is not the case, but that some are very well organized and some catastrophic. When you compare them on the basis of this information, you can actually figure out who does good and you don't fix it and fix it where they do bad. This was also the purpose of this functional analysis. According to the Court of Auditors’ response report, not only did the Government prepare it, but it has already harmonised the content of the contracts with the agencies responsible — for the securities market — the Insurance Supervisory Agency has concluded an annex to these contracts, which was a clear statement by the Court of Auditors — verified whether administrative fees are actually deducted into the State budget; harmonised tariffs and verified whether the tariffs are reflected in relation to the nature of the work that individual agencies charge through this tariff; provided clear guidance to all departments, managers, that any surpluses are used for the functioning of the agencies and do not accumulate in certain separate accounts or are used for other purposes; harmonised all contracts, set out the objectives of the management of the objectives — clearly, including by law, which are also to be determined — coordinated by the establishment of the establishment of the entity; regulated in the area of property management or in the field of real estate; and ensured that the management of the management of the public authorities are actually using the car as a whole, by the public authority, by means of which Slovenia’s owning the public authority, by which the entity, by which it’s. What is most important, I must stress, is that we have also prepared – I do not want to discuss it, but we have a proposal prepared – which agencies, in what way would it be reasonable to unite, reorganise, join the ministries and so on. But you need to understand that all agencies are established on the basis of sectoral laws, not on the basis of the Law on Public Agencies, but on the basis of sectoral laws, the Law on Finance, the Law on Culture, the Law on this and that. In short, we, as the Ministry of Public Administration, do not have the opportunity to do anything with an agency, because we need to cut into a sectoral law that is the basis for its establishment, in order to encourage it where it makes sense, we have prepared this review as well as an evaluation and also share it with the ministries that we are now negotiating with, how and how we can possibly optimise it. But as we say, we can talk more when this is agreed and coordinated, because you know that it is very easy to say that an agency is being rationalized, brought together, abolished, and when it comes to it, I will probably defend in the same national assembly why we are shutting down jobs and so on. The issue is not black and white, it needs to be thoroughly prepared and reached with a high consensus. However, as regards the commissions and the working bodies that exist in the public authorities, let me also say that the list of work bodies, commissions is extremely long. But a huge amount is those made up of people in the framework of regular working hours, but those established on the basis of legislation and regulations are those with which, in the law or in some field regulation, we determine how they are financed. However, we have also reviewed and continuously established and discontinued this part, but it is again a matter of a single source that sets up or can be removed from the commission. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for your answer, too. Of course I'm glad you didn't stop at this point to move on. I am pleased that this functional analysis is already ready and that the ministries are already familiar with it. I know that nothing is black and white, that we have at least a few shades in this rainbow or on this palette from black to white color, and I am also aware, coming from my previous work, that any merger, disengagement or any way can cause violent reactions. Of course, I also know that, on the basis of the sectoral laws of each institution, individual institutions are being established, but on this occasion, I appeal to all stakeholders, that is, all ministries, to try to be as rational as possible here. Of course, I will not say anything new if, on this occasion, I also say that over 200, certainly over 200 different inter-resort work bodies at government level are working; I know that many are needed, I know that they answer some key questions, but I wonder whether it would not be possible to do so even within the existing work and tasks of employees in ministries, in various institutions, agencies and so on, with their normal daily work. I believe that, above all, the arguments that lead to the rationalisation of business, which do not lead to further inflation of the various working bodies, such and other state institutions, and, as I have already said in the introduction, I would also like to see a reduction in the inflation of individual working bodies in the additional financing of these bodies, in particular that all, together and individually, have in mind, in their rational functioning, effective functioning, including concern and concern for end-users, to whom services must also be delivered in a kind manner. Again, more on this – thank you for your answer and I wish you a successful job rationalising this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u205	Thank you very much. To complement my reply, I give the floor to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, because I have just the opportunity to say a few more personal experiences in this area as a department minister, which, of course, I have to have an opinion on. Like other countries, ours is facing an extremely strong force regime. Each department defends its area and the tasks faced by the Ministry of Public Administration are, on the one hand, very ungrateful because they go beyond all ministries and require great coordination, but we are in the right direction. With the concentration of support services, information technology, real property, we in some way establish some common infrastructure that can increase cooperation between individual authorities and then make it easier to unite and reorganise. But we are trying very hard to prove – because we have to prove this in practice, not theoretically – that these support services will really work better than they do now that everyone is organizing for themselves. It's our job to prove it. On the other hand, as regards commissions and the establishment of new bodies, I have mentioned earlier projects such as, say, the SME test, MOPED These are projects that also demonstrate the consequences of some legislation when we adopt it. [[…]] Now it is often written in a regulation, a sub-law or law that will coordinate a working body, but we need to see that if 25 people sit in this working body with meetings outside the regular working hours, with external experts, we can calculate the cost. When we implement this later, when legislation is adopted, we find that these costs are not so negligible. So we need to be careful to see if we really need working bodies; if they are, whether they are rationally organised and when we adopt legislation to think about it three times, we introduce a new body or coordination group in advance if it is absolutely necessary. Often, as you say, the Ministry of Professional Services can perform this task as well as a coordinating body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u208	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Minister, as you know or are all aware of this here in the Chamber, as well as those who are outside, that agriculture in the Republic of Slovenia and also in Europe is in an increasingly difficult position. In particular, I have in mind the difficult situation of those who are involved in milk production in Slovenia. There are bigger problems here every day. Of course, as a result, or the addition of these problems is a disease that we may have seen or heard about for two years outside our borders, a disease of the blue tongue. Unfortunately, this disease came last year or a year and a half ago to our farms in the Republic of Slovenia. Since our farmers, especially those involved in livestock farming, are concerned, this disease is spreading, especially this disease is more in bloom in summertime, so, Minister-respected, I ask you: What measures is your ministry preparing, along with all the services belonging to this department, to prevent the spread of this disease? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Diane Jedhan, to give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u210	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Member, thank you for the current question! Bluetongue is a disease that is slowly spreading across Europe. At this point, let's say that about half of Europe is already marked as infected, but is spreading. Last November we had the first two cases – without the animal looking sick, without clinical signs – even in Slovenia. Similarly in the neighbouring country of Austria, while in Italy it has been present for such a long time. Allow me to tell you right from the start, however, this is a disease that is not dangerous to humans and does not spread to humans. This is also a disease that in this form does not cause harm in animals, so that the animal would appear to be sick in order to produce less production or anything. But it also depends very much on the subtype, which is the serum of the virus that causes it. At this point in Slovenia, as well as in the surrounding countries, we have Serovar 4 which does not cause visible signs of disease. But this is possible; there are other serums elsewhere in Europe. So, the seravos are 27, and some make visible signs, but some don't. But I'm talking about this because vaccination against one of the 27 cheeses does not protect animals against the other 26 subtypes of this disease. When Slovenia found that it had already been part of Slovenia since the disease was under special measures in the neighbouring country, the State Centre for Disease Control established the following in November: an area with restrictions covering the area of the Offices of the Veterinary Administration Murska Sobota, Maribor, Ptuj and Celje, the area of enhanced control applicable to the offices of Kranj, Ljubljana, Novo mesto or if I simplify, half of Slovenia is under certain measures, half of Slovenia is not under other measures. What might be of particular interest to viewers and viewers is that there is no limit in the part of Europe where they have a similar situation. To put it simply, if we have an animal from the Pomurje area, Podravje and the farmer also the question of selling, say, Austria, where they have similar status, say in Styria, there are no measures. Another step away from the measures is the time when vectors – i.e. mosquitoes, especially bloodstained animals, are carriers of disease – do not work, in Slovenia this is the time from 17 December to foreseeable April, but will be determined according to weather conditions, then standard measures from the first zone, i.e. from the restricted area, are not applicable and animals can move freely. The only practical measure that can be felt by the breeder is, in essence, when it comes to movements of breeding animals to areas where there is no disease, a serological examination should be carried out. The easiest thing to do is to avoid it if your animal inoculates. The vaccination according to our available data is somewhere between €6 and €7 but this applies to breeding animals, trafficking in breeding animals is not much at this time. At the moment, Slovenia is subject to similar restrictions as in other European countries, including Central European countries – as we have been facing this disease for the first time, so that we learn from the behaviour of the disease itself. If the disease goes as it is now, it is highly likely that in a year or two we will find that the virus is present throughout Central Europe, that it does not cause disease, and that there is no restriction. It is very important that the breeders are familiar, so it was squeezed at the Food Safety Authority by 25 000 parcels distributed to cattle farms. Also, new data may be available on the website of the Food Safety Authority, Veterinary and Plant Health if any new findings are made in this disease. So once again, to emphasize: the disease is not dangerous for humans, it is transmitted between animals exclusively through bloodlines. In this form of animal disease, there are no signs of disease, no direct economic damage is caused. Indirect economic damage is when it comes from areas where the disease is not yet present. This applies in particular to breeding animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u212	Thank you. Minister, I will be very happy in the future if this disease we're talking about is as simple as you've explained in your response. I also have to admit that I'm not an expert in this area, but when you meet farmers who probably know it a little bit better. And let me also say, if this is so simple, then it is likely that neighbouring Austria, Hungary and Croatia would not have decided to vaccinate these animals. I repeat, Your Honor, if this disease is as simple as your answer, I will be happy. However, let me say that experts can say that the neighbouring countries, I repeat, Austria, Hungary and Croatia have decided on sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u213	Thank you very much. To complement my reply, I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u214	Thank you. Once again, the vaccine is also available in Slovenia and the farmer can decide on vaccinations at any time. According to the available data, there were wider vaccinations where the clinical picture was present. It's just that it's not serovar 4. Allow me once again, Mr. Ambassador, to tell you where the problem is. The problem is that there are 27 different subtypes of this disease in Europe as well. The vaccination against this type, which does not cause visible disease in Slovenia, does not protect us from the other 26 types that, say, some in the former Yugoslavia have caused a severe clinical picture. Even if all of Slovenia were given a serovar type 4 today, I think that's what it's called, it's about as if we were injecting all people against the flu and then some new subtype of flu comes along and we find that this graft against this flu doesn't help against everyone else. It's similar here. It is very important and that is why our Directorate of Public Food is almost weekly consulting the neighbouring countries where this subtype came from, and I must say that we are doing a lot of synchronous work. Once again, if the breeder wants to vaccinate his animal, the vaccine is in Slovenia, at this point in fact according to available data, the total cost of single vaccination is 6 to 7 euros, but this is the economic decision of an individual breeder because it is an economic disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nurses, maintenance workers, servers, caregivers, kitchen workers and similar professions are the backbone of our health care and the care of the elderly. Without their work, there are no hospitals, no health homes, and no homes to care for the elderly. But despite their fundamental contribution, one government for another leaves them to overburdens, burnouts and pressures, human resources standards that would regulate their situation, and it has not been in sight for a decade. Moreover, in this area the situation is getting worse, even the middle nurses are the bees of our health system and care, but they are kneeling under the burdens. Syndical organizations, to say plastic, warn that only nurses carry out 300 thousand overtimes, which are often not paid. In the homes of older people who have become more or less into health care institutions, the situation is particularly difficult and the standards are here 30 years old and are inadequate on paper, and in practice they are no longer sustainable. During the night shifts, one sister also covers 200 beds. For the benefit of patients and nurses’ caregivers, in practice they also assume the tasks of doctors, although they should not, and thus risk sanctions, even loss of employment. Regulation of standards for all activities in the healthcare system is necessary, both to ensure the quality of healthcare and to ensure the quality of work rights and the quality of working life of employees. It is therefore time for the health system and the social welfare system to eliminate the forced reduction in the number of employees due to the ZUJF and to take an immediate approach to improving the working conditions of all categories of employees. On the one hand, it is unacceptable that the number of overtimees of employees is increasing and, on the other hand, employment is being hampered and all of this is happening at the time of the greatest unemployment and blackmail in recent history. In doing so, we must note that employees who receive the lowest wages and have the worst working conditions should not be overlooked in employment. Often these professional groups are maintenance workers, servers, caregivers, kitchen employees, and so on without representative organizations, so they do not have their own wise book of standards. There are funds to relieve overloaded staff and to employ new ones. The government has committed itself to increasing health resources by introducing a solidarity public benefit instead of supplementary health insurance, by extending the payment of social contributions to non-working incomes and by transferring the financing of certain expenditure to the integrated budget. In this regard, I am interested in: When will the Government and the Ministry of Health remove administrative barriers to employment in health and social welfare institutions? Until when will you prepare draft standards for all professional groups, including those who do not yet have their blue books? What will be the dynamics of increasing all categories of staff in health institutions and in those social security institutions? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Once again, Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, Mr Miha Kordish! The answer to the first question should briefly state that administrative barriers to employment in public health institutions have been removed. In view of these systemic measures, which significantly facilitate public sector employment in 2016, the initiative and request of the Ministry of Health was also in systemic laws, both in ZIPRS for 2016/2017, laid down the rule that the allowed number of employees in the business or staff plan of the public institution remains the same as in 2015, so that the requirements have been reduced over the past years, while at the same time allowing the allowed number of employees in public institutions to be increased according to 2015, provided that there are justified or justified reasons and that financial resources are also provided for this purpose. This is mainly the case for an assessment of the justification for the increase in the number of employees to be determined when the establishment of a public service business plan or staff plan is adopted. I fully agree with you, of course, that it is more rational to increase the number of employees and this is very justified in particular when public institutions pay more or, if you want, excessive amounts of overtime and therefore these funds are better diverted to new employees' salaries. Also as of 1 January 2016, the provisions of the ZUJF are no longer in force, after which public health institutions have had to obtain the consent of the Minister of Health for each new employment, so that in fact there are virtually no barriers to employment in these institutions, of course if this is justified, justified and financial resources are provided for this purpose. For these reasons, we have prepared specific explanations and recommendations at our Ministry to all heads of public institutions and members of the board of institutions representing the founders, namely the Republic of Slovenia, to be particularly careful when adopting financial and business plans for 2016. We have also prepared special instructions or manuals on how they work in this case. With regard to standards and standards, I should say that, unfortunately, these standards cannot be drawn up for all professional groups in the same way as individual representatives of these occupational groups, since the standards for work are based on a specific working environment, taking into account all needs and real opportunities at a given time. Human resources standards at the legal level or at the level of the collective agreement are unknown by no EU country or are such standards and norms more than a recommendation than a minimum standard, which must also be linked to funding. Otherwise, they are primarily responsible for implementing these standards on a direct employer or direct leader. Thus, in the case of public health institutions, these are the management of these institutions and their supervisors or heads of services. There is also no general agreement in the international space on tools to measure these human resources needs, and these are only on an artificial level. Let me say that we will make or are already preparing some recommendations on minimum standards. And the rest of the answer below.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for her answer. I would ask you if you could complete it in the category of justified reasons and resources. Indeed, we know that even now, for example, the MSO is recording surpluses, these surpluses go to millions of euros, and it is usually the management staff in these public institutions that block new jobs and those funds rather redirect them to somewhere else or, I don't know, put them in Smurfs, put them in investments, while the staff, even the medium staff and the technical support staff and so on, burn up. I want to know: How exactly is it now, with these justified reasons and additional resources, intended for the human resources discharge of working groups in health care and social services? You yourself have said that this is exactly what is in the domain of a direct employer, which is effective in these cases a real director. Now, on the one hand, the state indirectly puts direct pressure on these managers in public institutions to reduce costs, however, and on the other hand, employees are not insured either by regulations that would be entered into a collective agreement or that would be entered into legislation, regardless of whether this is regulated abroad at the level of the recommendations or otherwise. If the real situation is with us that we have nurses and caregivers and so on who burn up, who go beyond all their abilities, the quality of care, health care and so on declines. As far as I'm concerned, let's keep looking: What dynamics do you anticipate regarding the increase in staff in all categories in health care institutions and social security institutions, not only in the 2015-2016 ratio, but also further? Do you have any visions here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u221	Thank you very much. In order to complete my reply, I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u222	Thank you for the supplementary question. Let me say that financing standards is a result of years of age, we can say as many decades of experience as possible in some particular area, of course supported by evidence of medical findings as well as professional evidence. Since you have repeatedly mentioned the problem or overload of nurses, let me say that as part of our agreement with the representatives of this structure of health workers we have undertaken a special pilot project where we are essentially analysing intensive care in Slovenia on the basis of 2011 by the Health Council of adopted standards for nurses, a so-called categorisation that specifies in sufficient detail how many nurses for a particular patient or a certain number of beds are needed. This pilot project comes to an end when we analyze what it means and what employment is with the number of active nurses in intensive care, we can also figure out what the need is or what the lack of this profile is. This is what we are talking about in legitimate needs, when and how much to employ. For this reason, it would be irresponsible to talk at once or uniformly about the systemic increase in employment without some prior analysis, because we know that these matters must be justified, but of course we also need to look at demographic trends or the future needs of the Slovenian population for health services, including the entire network of hospitals and others. For this reason, it would be irresponsible to speak or claim any number as much as is necessary and perhaps even too much in any institution of a given profile. We are certainly also working intensively on the entire accounting system, because we know that this is outdated and we are often paying for certain services that have not even been done or other services that have been made are not paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u224	Of course, I am making a procedural proposal, not because I would not believe that we have a pilot project but that things will turn out better here in the future, but because I do not believe in its finance minister anymore, that he will be ready to open a scrotum to relieve the staff that is already kneeling under his work obligations and overheating in his posts in the social and health institutions. Furthermore, what has proved to be potentially controversial in this reply is uncoordinated by the Government: as from 2015 to 2016, the shift in terms of the ZUJF is expected to take place, it is said that employment is released if justified reasons arise and if resources are available. However, the Minister further stated that we cannot determine the legitimate reasons until the pilot project has been completed and its results analysed, while the pilot project is still under way. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out once again the poor situation of the staff and the resulting declining quality of care, health care and so on in our public health system. This is certainly a topic that would be nice for us to discuss in the National Assembly; let us not only discuss what advanced decision and advanced decision to support our public health and social welfare institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u225	Jehovah’s Witnesses, 1 / 1 3. In the context of the votes. Mr Matjaž Germany will put the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greeting, colleague and colleague, distinguished minister, here! I will address you with two specific questions. I'll start with the first one. Actually, the story isn't from today, we've already started pushing it together in some way successfully. In fact, they showed up after a letter I wrote to Director Dars, to which I received a reply of 24. 7. With quite optimistic predictions that we will finally be on the H4 fast road after more than 10 years, this is the path that leads from Nanos to the Vertajba border crossing, which in some ways connects the North Sea region with Ljubljana, to the promised one – we are talking about anti-aircraft protections, we are talking about oversaltifications that have never been implemented before. In fact, according to the Journal, namely journalist Vanja Alič, these hands, which were promised by my correspondence with Dars, are somehow exposed as impractical, at least in the deadlines mentioned. My next question is, Mr. Secretary-General: Is it true that projects or projects have been prepared in 2015 in due course, mentioned this year, and the implementation of these projects is expected to begin in 2016? We know it's a technical or technologically extremely difficult project, but I'm still interested in: Whether the media’s claims are held or still by Darsa — I’m talking about 24. Seven. 2015 – perhaps those that express the current situation? Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u227	I give the floor to Dr. Peter Gaspersic, Minister of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u228	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, Member Matjaž Germany, for the question raised. All of these activities on this fast road – Vipavski we call it, as it were, domestically – of course, the company Dars is running. At this section, from Raztrzeg to Ajdovščina, it is envisaged to build this anti-aircraft protection at a total length of almost 18 km. The solution envisaged will somehow be similar to this anti-aircraft fence, as already done at the Black Kal viaduct – to make it easier to imagine what it is. The implementation itself is envisaged or planned in several phases, the first phase of which provides for the implementation of test fields that will then confirm whether this solution is appropriate and achieves an appropriate level of protection; in short, the appropriate effect of these anti-aircraft fences. At this first stage, three test fields will be carried out both in the valley and in the lateral part of the rapid road route. The first test field will be in the area of viaducta Lozice, where the maximum wind speed has been measured so far. The total length of these fences at this section will be approximately 700 meters. The second test field is foreseen at the passage of the fast road from the Mlaka arch to the Podnanos tunnel. Here the road runs in a curve, which is also a little bit more difficult to protect, and the total length of these fences will be at this part 750 meters. The third test field will take place in the area of this road between Log and Zemon; it is said in the lower part, and here it will be 307 meters long. In short, it's going to happen this year. In fact, the projects have already been developed, a building permit is obtained and all the necessary consent is obtained, and the tender will take place as soon as the building permit is obtained. As it has been said, if this call is successful then, this will start this year. Maybe it's just the cost. The estimated value of all these common anti-aircraft protections is around €31 million without tax and without funding costs. This is complete for all of these nearly 18 kilometers. Dars also has these funds planned in the framework of the 2016 business plan and then in the coming years, as this implementation will gradually progress. With regard to the renewal of the vehicle itself, Dars already carried out an order in 2015 for the construction of a PZI project for the renewal of the vehicle at a total length of just over 24 kilometres. Thus, completion of these projects for the first stage – this renovation is divided into five stages and projects for the first stage is expected to be completed in early June and the second phase in July and for the other three stages in autumn 2016. It is then envisaged that for the first two stages there will be an invitation to tender for construction immediately after the approval of this project documentation. If the call is successful, it is said that the works will be successfully delivered without complications, these works could start at these first two stages this year, or immediately after the end of the winter season in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German, you have a request to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Minister. I would just like to add that since the beginning of your term of office we have been following agreements, in some areas we have rebuilt the road, restored part of the sound barriers at the station or at the Bazar toll station. We also just, a few weeks ago, arranged four traffic control zones with so-called storms or storms, so that "per partes" can then close this highway. In this place, I would like to thank you for your help, and I hope that your words will also become a reality in these years. Thank you very much for now, Minister. But we'll keep an eye on the events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u231	Thank you very much. You still want the minister? No, no, no. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will raise a question of the delegation to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u232	Dear Minister! I would like to ask you a question regarding the increase in excise duties on oil derivatives: Why did the Ministry of Finance decide to propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase excise duties on oil derivatives? The fact is that prices of oil derivatives are significantly cheaper in neighbouring countries than in Slovenia. A good example is the state of Austria, where the difference between the lowest possible price of oil — given that there is a free market in Austria — is about 16 cents per litre compared to Slovenia. The fact is also that the average price of fuel oil in Austria is about 11 cents per litre. It is interesting that you have decided to propose, increase excise duties during the winter holidays, when we know that the trend of Slovenians is after skiing in Austria and that you have somehow reduced the revenue in the budget itself. The fact is that by increasing excise duties on oil derivatives you burden both residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia and in some ways reduce the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. During a period of time, we could also see that the Government was thinking about releasing the prices of oil derivatives in Slovenia, but later you decided not to follow this step. Above all, the Honourable Minister: What were the reasons for your decision to increase excise duties on oil derivatives? I ask for your assessment: What impact will this have on the budget? Above all: Why is that, or does this not reduce the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Marble, to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u234	Dear Member! In managing excise policy, the Government takes into account the economic policy objectives, the economic situation, environmental policy, competitiveness with neighbouring countries, and above all this budgetary aspect is important. The Ministry of Finance is constantly monitoring this market situation, preparing excise measures to the extent possible, so that it is sufficient to meet all these policy objectives and aspects. The amount of excise duty is the result of considering an appropriate balance between these factors. The change in the amount of excise duty on an oil derivative, likely related to 2 February 2016, was the result of an assessment by the Government that the reduction in retail prices of petrol and diesel fuel formed in accordance with this Regulation may be offset in part by an increase in excise duties in the light of the efforts for fiscal consolidation. Prices have fallen so much that we thought that by halving these excise duties the price could still fall, but these government revenues are significantly higher. Thus, for half the reduction in retail prices of petrol and diesel fuel was less than the result of an increase in excise duty, a rise of excise duty by 0.4 cents per litre in petrol and, for example, 0.9 cents per litre in diesel fuel. The retail prices of 95-octane gasoline were thus reduced by 0.4 cents per litre and 1 cent per litre by diesel. It was estimated that the total annual financial impact would be around €11.6 million in the state budget, assuming unchanged amounts. I would like to point out that excise duties on propellant fuels have changed for the last time on 4 August 2015, since then there have been no changes for diesel and for petrol, and for gas oil for heating on 27 October 2015, when we increased excise duties on the world market for these petroleum derivatives. Of course, we often give the case of Austria, of course on the other hand we have Italy, which has significantly higher prices and excise duties than Slovenia has. So we are somewhere between the two extremes and Slovenia is trying to find some balance – this is the first thing between the two. On the other hand, the European policy proposal, particularly environmental policies, is to make use of these falling prices – or partially neutralise them by slightly reducing this free fall in the prices of oil derivatives which could prevent environmental objectives. Here Slovenia almost did not adhere to this policy, very few times we intervened on changes in excise duties, and this 2 February was the last one, and in the end prices fell. About the liberalisation, because you asked what the attitude was. The position of the Ministry of Finance was very clear that we do not oppose the liberalisation of high-octane gasoline, according to 98- and 100-octane, and that we do not oppose liberalisation for gas oil, says koel. For these three derivatives, we have no concern so far and there are certain other problems here why the regulation has been extended and the liberalisation of these three oil derivatives has not taken place. It is, therefore, that we had to go to a completely different, new system of price monitoring and then reporting to European level, for which we need some time – not the Ministry of Finance, that is in the Ministry of Infrastructure domain. Further liberalisation, however, is in the talks between the Ministry of Infrastructure, the economy and the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u236	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. You have answered me in part, but not in part. I am convinced that this increase in excise duty actually reduces the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and, on the other hand, burdens the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Earlier in one of the questions we were able to hear that this tax reform is precisely the purpose of increasing consumption and you are actually reducing consumption by raising these excise duties. Instead of allowing citizens and citizens, especially the economy, to take advantage of this trend in world oil prices, which is falling drastically, and you are here increasing your excise duty – in my opinion solely for the purpose of filling the budget. The fact is that this increase in excise duty has increased the price difference between Austria and Slovenia. I would like to know if you are familiar with the research prepared by the Wirtschaftsforschungs Institute from Austria, which explains in particular what a positive benefit has been to the economy and to households this decrease in oil prices. In Austria, the impact was around €2 billion and a half, €800 million for households and about €1.5 billion for the economy. I am convinced, Minister, that the Government of Mira Cerar and the Ministry of Finance, through this increase in excise duties, are leading a totally wrong policy; a policy that places an additional burden on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, does not ultimately reduce the competitiveness of the economy. The fact is, there are still several taxes and charges in Slovenia at the price of oil derivatives. Why can't the government take advantage of these positive trends in the decline in the world market oil price? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Marmor, to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u238	I would like to point out once again that from August of last year until today, excise duty on petrol increased by 0.4 cents at a price drop by almost 30 percent and diesel by 0.859 cents, says less than one cent. According to our calculations and the guidelines we have — even ecologically — it made sense to do so at the beginning of this year. Of course, this is an extremely important public financial aspect, because, on the other hand, if there is no consolidation of public finances, it also affects the access of our companies to funding sources and financial markets. This fiscal picture is extremely important for the economy only because it depends on the country's creditworthiness, the creditworthiness of financial institutions and thus the economy. That was our thought, and we are convinced that this has done more good than damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the Minister's response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u240	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that public debate in the National Assembly be held on the subject of excise duty on petroleum derivatives. Dear Minister, I did not want to take advantage of this procedural procedure, but given your response now in this last part, I have decided to propose it. That is to say that you advocate that the government is only once — or from August onward, you have not increased the excise duty on oil derivatives. I think that's funny. The price of petroleum derivatives must be developed on the market, not that we can thank the Government of Mira Cerar and the Ministry of Finance for having decided to increase this excise duty once or twice. It is important to point out that you have increased the excise duty on the heating oil just before the heating season, but you have increased the oil derivatives now. For what? Only because of the budget. See, in Austria we have a daily change in prices and the price of oil derivatives is being developed solely according to the movement of oil prices on the stock market, not whether the Austrian government will increase some excise duty. And now here you have peace between citizens and citizens and Members, how good is the government of Mira Cerar because you have decided only twice to increase these excise duties! I think that you are doing damage and that you are reducing revenue for the budget, because the vast majority of Slovenians who have the opportunity to go to Austria, fill your car there. During winter vacations there were probably a lot of skis, a lot of these daily passages, and here you can't see this forest. You see only one tree, but it is not likely that by lowering or increasing excise prices, more than one litre of oil derivatives can be increased at the end of the budget revenue. Finally, this is not good for the Slovenian economy either. As I have already mentioned, this Austrian Institute calculated that there were some ratings or positives for the whole state of Austria in relation to low oil prices of EUR 2.5 billion. This policy of yours regarding excise duties, I think it is wrong and I think that this wrong policy of excise duty was also at the time of the Brother's Government and, above all, the Government of Pahor, that these excise duties actually increased dramatically. Let us just look at the price of oil or petroleum derivatives at this level, as it is now about 40 percent higher – but only because the country is filling this budget. I think that this public debate is necessary, because this is a broader problem. Finally, last but not least in excise duties, including in tobacco products and in alcoholic products, this tax policy of these governments is absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u241	Jehovah’s Witnesses, 1 / 1 3. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. Mrs Vojka Shergan will raise the question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The quality label is information to consumers that it is an added value product, that compliance with rules and standards is controlled by control institutions and therefore there must be no doubt about the quality of these products. Of course, consumers in shops also encounter different brands, while trade alone with internal control must ensure the quality they mark, such as: Slovenian product, let us buy Slovenian, Slovenian companies, but the truth is that foreign products repackage, mark the country of origin and sell under Slovenian products. Thus, the producer, I think, should also stand for this promise that the product is indeed Slovenian, and so for example it happens to import cereals, write the country's origin and write on the packaging Slovenian product, even write a bio Slovenian product and sell it to consumers. In view of the large flooding of various product labels, for example, 100 percent Slovenian, I would like to stress once again, Slovenian product and so on, I am interested in: How can the consumer know when it is only packed in Slovenia and when it is also produced in Slovenia? On the contrary, it seems correct that when the consumer sees a particular brand which is controlled that it is certified, he must be calm in order to get the right quality at the right price. So: What can the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food do in the field of certification? How does it control individual institutions carrying out certifications? Can and how can the Food Safety Keeper participate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Diane Jedhan, to give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u244	Thank you, Madam President, and honourable Member, also thank you for the current question. Perhaps the answer to this question is much easier than many think. Food is also treated in the same way as other products and productions in Slovenia. The country of origin of the product is the country where the last stage of production of a particular product was carried out. Therefore, if a food product is claimed to be a product of Slovenia, it is not claimed that the raw material is Slovenian. This is simply saying that the final stage of preparation or construction of this product has been in our country, not to mention the origin of the raw material. The exception in this case is the following, and this is the area of fruit, vegetables and fresh meat and olive oil and honey, where, in addition to the country of origin of the product, the packaging must also bear the origin of the raw material. This is because at least once a year at European Union level, there is a very large debate on whether the European Union – that is, labelling is the responsibility of a European regulation – should the European Union prescribe that food products should not only be written about whether the product is made in a country but also about where the primary raw material for this product comes from. Although Slovenia represents views, like some other countries, that the consumer is also interested in the country of origin of the raw material itself, not only in the product, there is no agreement on this. We are divided at this point in the European Union, and the Commission does not support this. The main reason why the Commission does not support it is its conclusion that it has obtained from a study that the consumer wants such additional information but is not willing to pay. Indeed, in the Commission’s view, the additional label on the packaging also constitutes an increase in the price of the product. However, let me tell you at least four examples of how this system works also on the basis of decisions, both by the competent administration and by the advertising court in Slovenia. If we have a dairy in Slovenia that sells sterile milk, but does not sterilize it at home in Slovenia, it benefits sterilisation outside Slovenia, which is clearly visible from the oval sign, which is from a foreign country, but ensures with all traceability that the raw material of this milk is controlled, i.e. raw milk, Slovenian, it can also write that the raw material is Slovenian. If we have a dairy that produces milk in Slovenia and also ensures that the raw material is 100% Slovenian, in any case it can also be specifically indicated that it is a 100% Slovenian raw material and a product of Slovenia, this is also controlled, but in milk it is a voluntary designation. At the time when the manufacturer decides to make such a voluntary designation on his product, this designation shall also be subject to inspection. However, this particular producer also has the possibility to decide that specific indications from where the raw material originates do not give, which is still in accordance with Slovenian legislation, since European legislation can directly be applied at this point. If Slovenian trade and Slovenian producers say that the product is Slovenian, that is Slovenian production, although the source of the raw material is not Slovenian, the claim that the product is Slovenian is true. But he is not here, for example, stating that the raw material is Slovenian. For example, fresh meat must also be marked with origin. If the animal is born, reared, slaughtered and otherwise processed in Slovenia, the manufacturer may, in addition to the fact that it is one way or another as regards the product, Slovenian may also write that the origin of the raw material is Slovenian. If, for example, the country of birth is another country or a third country, but everything else is in Slovenia, it is the responsibility of the individual to write the guarantees. That's mandatory. Do we have a bonding mark in Slovenia right now? The bonding mark will be made in the second half of this year, and this is the chosen quality of Slovenia, where money will be collected by both breeders and industry, and the country will also contribute its half of the money. There the specification will make it very clear that the selected quality of Slovenia means that the product is also based on Slovenian raw material. At a time when such a specification has been adopted, the State inspection authorities shall also monitor and punish the specific specification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u246	Thank you. It follows that somehow we can expect that at least somehow the abuse of the word domestically, Slovenian, to somehow assume that this will improve in the second half of the year for at least some products and that consumers will somehow know what they are buying, which I think is of the utmost importance if we want to really keep Slovenian production on a certain quality and level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u247	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. To dejane jedan to submit an additional response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u248	Thank you. Allow me to describe this particular case in the case of this beautiful wooden table that is in front of us. At least I assume this table is made in Slovenia. So we can say that this is a Slovenian product. We don't know, not you, honourable Member, not me, or the raw material, this wood, this plastic, this microphone in Slovenia is made, or it is the source – that is, "the raw material" – but when we claim it is a Slovenian product because it was made in Slovenia, we do not claim that it is an integral part of this from Slovenia. However, if this particular object had also been labelled as the new code of the selected quality of Slovenia, they would also claim that the raw material is Slovenian, or in this case, raw material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u250	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, respectable minister! Today, I am referring the question to the Minister for Finance, Mr Marble. It's about NGOs. If, of course, we define NGOs in general, then we can say that we are talking about civil society, but such a definition is somewhat misleading. It is also true that these are defined by individual companies, institutions and institutions. Personally, however, I think that it is more than important, as far as citizens and citizens are concerned – and this is actually coming directly from them – is how these NGOs are financed. That is how much funding they receive from the State. They can, of course, be financed as a programme itself, they can be funded projectly. That is why I am now referring to you with a specific question: How many non-governmental organisations are financed, mostly by the State or public funds – as far as the programme is concerned – and how many are funded by individual programmes; is it that we are talking about what kind of financial resources? I assume you'll also serve with the numbers: How many of them are receiving these funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dusan Maramor will answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Dear Member Anja Bah Žibert, your question concerns the financing of non-governmental organisations, because in the State budget we are monitoring consumption for economic purposes of current transfers to non-profit organisations and institutions, I am giving you the following answer for this category of consumer public funds, which is slightly wider than the concept of NGOs alone. But that's how we get it. Non-profit organisations are public and private institutions, including charities, sports, humanitarian, disabled, veteran and other societies, cultural organisations, trade unions, political parties and similar institutions that implement programmes in the public interest and whose objective is not to earn profits. The non-governmental and non-profit sector is an important part of civil society, which complements the functions of the State by its activities. During the period you are asking, non-profit organisations from the state budget received: € 125 million in 2012, €131, 2014 – 109 and 2015 – €97 million. In addition, non-profit organisations were also financed from municipal budgets, from which they received around €90 million in 2012, 86.5 in 2013, 87.4 in 2014 and €87.3 million in 2015. As examples of how these funds were distributed, let me say that in 2015 non-profit organisations from the state budget received, as I said, €97.4 million, of which €87 million is current and €10.4 million of investment transfers; these investment transfers are, of course, not according to programmes, but according to projects. The maximum amount was €14 million for social protection programmes, most for the social rehabilitation of addicts, mental health programmes, social inclusion programmes for disabled persons and so on; €8.6 million for the operation of the system for protection, rescue and assistance; €8.6 for the programming and development tasks of sport; 8.3 for employment incentives, most to promote employment; € 5.1 million for local development infrastructure; €4.5 for development cooperation and humanitarian assistance; €3.1 for training and education, most for competitiveness and employment; €4 million for art programmes; €4 million for the provision of grants to beneficiaries under the Income Act; €3.4 million for labour market services; €3.2 million for co-financing of political parties. These are your intentions. The financing of these projects is mainly based on the call for proposals from individual sector ministries and, within the Ministry of Finance, to non-profit organisations, the majority of the funds have been paid under Article 132 of the Income Act. Pursuant to that Article, the resident may require up to 0.5 per cent of the income paid under this Act to be deducted from the annual tax base for the financing of generally beneficial purposes and for the financing of political parties and representative unions to enable the resident of his or her income, part of the income instead of in the budget, to provide for those organisations which are in an unprofitable manner engaged in activities aimed at humanitarian purposes, including the protection of human rights – for example, the purpose of protecting against natural disasters and disability, charity, oncological, cultural, religious purposes – while also being included in the list of beneficiaries of grants for each year. Beneficiaries receive between €3.4 million and €4 million on this legal basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert – a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u254	Thank you very much for your question. But your answer also showed that when we talk about NGOs, it is a very wide spectrum and a very large package. From the perspective of transparency, I think we also have a problem here in Slovenia. In fact, people, if we look at it in general, taxpayers under NGOs don't count everything you said. That is why I propose to the Ministry, because we also have some information published on how individual ministries finance these so-called non-governmental organisations, but by taxpayers and what they finance, it would make sense for all NGOs and what funds to be made publicly available in a pooled location. In fact, they are doing a lot of work, we know that these NGOs are also growing in numbers, and it would be wise to show somehow more transparently how much funding and how much NGOs are involved. In doing so, let me point out that, for example, many people are interested and considered more than a non-governmental organisation by the Amnesty International Peace Institute, and so on and so forth, and are not so concerned in this respect with political parties who must so and so report on regular business and are also subject to public debate every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dr. Dusan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u256	I can only agree with this initiative and we will do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Since the beginning of the migration crisis, I would like to point out that everyone should respect the rule of law, the rule of law, the legal expression and the rule of law. Then none of what happened could ever have happened. This does not only apply to Slovenia, it also applies to European institutions. But the thing we are facing today is the policy of the Slovenian government, because the wrong use of law, the wrong use of legal concepts resulted in Saturday in a situation when extreme leftists were equipped with sticks, with weapons apparently intended for attack, and caused violence on Slovenian streets, specifically in Kotnikova, Ljubljana. In contrast, they became older ladies, older artists, writers, poets. The matter was so much more interesting because the triple cordon of police, including those shields, was turned against the elderly ladies, while against masked women, with batons equipped with left-wing extremists, many fewer were turned. This says something about the country we are in and about the wrong application of law in this area. Well, but to get back to the point of the story. None of this would have happened if the term refugees were used for those who are refugees under international law and for other migrants or illegal migrants when they come illegally, in non-compliance with European rules. And that is exactly what was happening in Slovenia. What's going on now? A certain part of Aja's migrants may even jump for a moment in explanation, because of the public accompanying us, under the Geneva Convention, there is only one obligation of the State: the first safe state must respect the principle of non-refoulement and non-refoulement. [[…]] He must not refuse at the border people who are actually threatened and must not return them to the border if he finds them later if they have illegally crossed this border of the first safe country because it is considered to have been an urgent evil in order to save life or to prevent severe consequences. Of course, there is no war in the vicinity of Slovenia. And only you, in this first safe country, are refugees, everyone else are migrants from there. What's going on now? Law is still being misused, as international law expressly gives the country the right to refuse anyone who goes through migrant shopping to go somewhere else, is seeking asylum elsewhere, and then return it and apply for asylum in that country, and in Slovenia this is allowed. In this way, the most problematic people gather in Slovenia and already accumulate, which are rejected elsewhere at the border, come back to Slovenia, and they have already gone through Slovenia, and in Slovenia they ask for asylum [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u260	Thank you, Vice President, for the question. Given that we have already had several meetings and committees on the subject of the migration crisis, I do not think it is necessary to explain why certain measures have been taken: to be carried out in accordance with Schengen. What does it mean to enter a country that is also in line with the Schengen Code or even respect for legislation? I agree that the rule of law must be respected, respected, respected, respected, and respected. I would add something here, because it is not at all a question whether Slovenia allows it, because it is an individual thing, or who wants to apply for international protection, and in no case is it a matter of allowing or denying the state, as you are mistaken in your question. As far as the Republic of Slovenia is concerned, Slovenia has adopted a Geneva Convention, which together with some other conventions forms the basis of international humanitarian law, in accordance with the Succession Notification Act for the United Nations Conventions. The European Union, as well as the Member of Parliament, has somehow indirectly identified, is in line with the Geneva Convention, but it has certain rules which further complicate this situation or add additional dimensions to the story. The Geneva Convention, as we know, is a universal agreement that defines who is a refugee, defines rights and duties – otherwise it was adopted 64 years ago, but still forms the basis for the protection of refugees around the world. In Slovenia, too, international protection is a constitutionally protected category, since Article 48 of the Constitution provides for the recognition within the limits of the law of the right of asylum to foreign nationals and stateless persons who are persecuted for their claim for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Republic of Slovenia is bound by both international obligations and national legislation, thus allowing access to the procedure for all persons expressing their intention to apply for international protection in the Republic of Slovenia – that is, at a time when they are detained in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. If we have already discussed legal language at the outset, I must also correct you that an economic migrant is also not a legal category. In fact, we can talk about persons who come legally, who come illegally and then are subject to the procedure, and applicants for international protection. This is in fact the case of persons who are in the process of returning to the Republic of Croatia or their country of origin and who did not want international protection in Austria or with us, although they had the option, and for this reason have also been handed over to the Austrian security authorities, and Slovenia has also consistently implemented the agreed criteria and joint statements of the Police Directors-General, for whom I believe you are also well aware of what they have agreed. Therefore, foreigners who do not apply for international protection are then treated by the police under the Aliens Act, so they conduct procedures and activities for removal either into the country of origin or into the country of transit. However, the Aliens Act also provides, of course, when forced removal from our country is not permitted; that is, where removal is concerned with countries where the life or freedom of these people would be endangered. Given that migration is a living matter, perhaps as an illustration and in some way as to the situation we are in, I can say that the Austrian security authorities today have not rejected any migrants, as all those who were committed to the Austrian security authorities, so together, if I am not mistaken, 336.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes has a request to complete the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u262	Look, if I agree with anything, when you said strictly legal and only legally and illegally, and I must tell you that all those you did not describe, but it was hundreds of thousands from the beginning, went through Slovenia illegally according to international and Slovenian regulations. You are personally responsible for this and as a whole the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It was very interesting to hear earlier, Minister Moromir, who said that the Schengen had fallen, and now Minister Györkösevo, who said that the Schengen must be respected. Yes, I agree with both of you, it should be respected, only you, Mrs Györköseva, did not respect it under the influence of some of the European Union, but the decision was yours and is a sovereign decision for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What's the situation now? People who sought asylum elsewhere, who were on their way elsewhere, as they also said, and were also released to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, are now returning and rejecting them. Then they come back to Slovenia and apply here for asylum. This is not allowed under international law, Mrs Györköseva, you check! International law states that if this happens, it is an asylum shopping and that such a country where this happens has the right to return the person without considering his request to the first safe country through which that person came. And you know exactly what the first safe countries are on this path. That's what you're saying. I don't understand. Why do we work at unnecessary costs, heavy blood, damage and get the most problematic people back and deal with them if you don't have to do this under international law? All you have to do is know the right thing and respect it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u264	Mr. Grimes, I need to fix you here. Slovenia is in fact the first country to start halting the migration flow and is also the first country on the Western Balkan route to consistently start recording, registering and carrying out security checks; in short, it has implemented the essence of the Schengen regime in a given situation, and this is security. As far as the rest of police conduct is concerned, Slovenian police have done their job well, the Schengen Code has implemented as much as possible in the given situation, but we must be realistic, we are faced with thousands of people who land daily on the coasts of Greece and want to move on to Germany. As you know, as you are very active at the local level, the problem is already so big that it has reached our local communities, and that is the dimension of the problem. In fact, millions of people are knocking on the door of the European Union, who are somehow also seeing in open-door politics the solution, the resort, or some other solution. The fact is, up to now, the answer has not been given how to respect the Schengen consistently without the use of police force when several thousand people are suddenly at the border, including vulnerable groups. Schengen is respected, as you know, we have restricted organised transits to our country, and we have radically narrowed the conditions for humanitarian entry. This is also Schengen, Article 5 of the Schengen Code, which, last but not least, is a reflection of the guidelines of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has decided that we must deal with this crisis in a humanitarian way, which we have not been able to do in the last period, and I think it also makes no sense to repeat everything and why it was done as it was. The legislation is respected and tomorrow the International Protection Act will also be discussed, where certain solutions are proposed, which will also facilitate the face-to-face of the migrant crisis and we hope that they will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes will request a debate in the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u266	Thank you. If we go to the specific numbers that are yours. By the time about 400,000 illegal migrants had passed through Slovenia, you said that you had written down about 140,000. This is said, for the remaining more than 200,000, it was not done; when it passed over a few years earlier, about 200,000, you said that 35,000 had been taken of fingerprints at the time. That's what they say, for 170,000 it wasn't done. If the Schengen were to be respected, all of this should be done! The problem is that right now, yes, it's going in the right direction. [[…]] This attempt to make order already at the Macedonian border is certainly a step in the right direction, along with the Multi-Citizen Group. But if you look at when we proposed all this in SDS, personally, you will see that this was the beginning of last fall. But then a deaf ear was made and today, even if it is in the right direction, the problem is that after us a few months, which are lost and where politics has been completely wronged and now this wrong conduct, which meant a violation of Slovenian and international law, on your part, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is returning Slovenia as a severe boomerang, because we are getting people back because we have put ourselves in a position when everything goes through us and we get people back elsewhere who have already wanted to apply for asylum or have already done so, and they have been rejected for such or other reasons. I don't know why they are allowed here to apply for asylum again or here to apply for asylum in individual cases, if we know that under international law a country such as Slovenia, through which this migrant has once moved, has the right to return it to that first country, which is the first safe country through which it came. Neither does the European Union border go over Slovenia, only the Schengen border. That is, we have all the legal reasons to do so and it is simply not possible to understand why this is not done. I just hope that tomorrow some of the options will remain in the law that has been passed and that what is good – and by the way – will not be deleted from the law. But in any case, it would be very serious to discuss this, because it is a serious mistake, which will not only fade in the short term, but will weaken Slovenia in the long term; that is, huge costs and a huge security risk for Slovenia. That is why it is your responsibility and therefore we would be obliged to discuss this in the National Assembly. And another argument is to talk about this topic in the National Assembly. The National Assembly has the right and duty to be aware of everything the Government intends to do in the field of migration policy, and you refused to take note of your plans at the closed meeting last Monday. By leaving room for fear, you leave room for manipulation and responsibility for problems that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u267	Thank you very much. The National Assembly will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and all the rest of you who are watching these late-night sessions of ours! You will not believe this, but we also have beaches in Slovenia, and among others this government has inherited some old things, such as the issue of beaches and the rescue of beaches in Slovenia Istria. What's this all about? There are two beaches, which are quite famous on the coast, and this is Krnica, which has been dragging since 2005, and a beach in Guci, which has been around since 2008. It took quite a few things and also a flood management programme from September 2010, which the two reptiles were supposed to somehow save and which was also somehow confirmed by previous governments, but – you will not believe – unrealised due to poor financial situations; and, of course, these recoverys did not occur. Meanwhile, that's 2012. For years, the Ministry or the Municipality of Koper has already clearly provided the competent Ministry with the agreed documentation on the plasma review and has also confirmed these measures. It was also found that the implementation of the technical documentation and the rehabilitation itself somehow exceeded the capacity of the Municipality of Koper. The rough estimate of beach rehabilitation in Krnica is about 1 million 700, while in Gucci there is about 100,000 euros. Here, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you, is it said, in the budget of 2016-2017, there are some funds that are supposed to be earmarked for certain rehabilitations, but it is not explicitly written as to whether there are concrete two reptiles – perhaps, I hope that we can find something. I want to know: Could any of these resources be used for at least one of these two reptiles? Of course, a million 700 is a big deal. Maybe on that smaller scale, this reptile in Gucci would be suitable for some kind of rehabilitation. And also to demonstrate the will of this government and of this ministry to repair these reptiles, which in Slovenia remained inherited from the predecessors of your government. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irena Majcen will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u270	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, Mr Marko Ferruga, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It is true that the state budget for 2016 and 2017 provides for the rehabilitation or continuation of rehabilitation for large beaches. The large reptiles are reptiles, which occurred in 2000 and 2001 and are determined by the law on the elimination of the effects of these reptiles, which was renovated in 2012. These reptiles are explicitly defined and, of course, no spilling of resources is possible. This is the beach Stovje in the municipality of Bovec, the beach Strug on Kosecnem in the municipality of Kobarid, the beach Gradište nad Prvačino in the municipality of Nova Gorica, the beach Podmark in the municipality of Šempeter-Vrtojba, the beach Slano blato nad Lokavac in the municipality of Ajdovščina and the Plaza Macesnik in the municipality of Solčava. On more than half of these reptiles, I have already done my own examination, and according to the situation on the ground, recovery must be continued. It is true that these funds are not large either, in 2016, a million 350 thousand and in 2017, 3 million 200 thousand, and the whole rehabilitation of all these beaches requires significantly more resources. Since this budget item is intended, it is not possible to provide for the recovery of any other beach from these resources. Plazova Guci and Krnica in the Municipality of Koper were recorded as harmful cases in the assessment of direct damage due to the flood in September 2010, as you yourself have already stated. Unfortunately, the implementation of this programme has never been carried out. Our government has provided, for example, for the floods of 2014 10 million for flood damage only and an additional 17 million for the maintenance of last year's watercourses, which means that it is somehow expected that the government, when an adverse event occurs, will also, of course, provide funds to remedy this harmful event. In fact, one year after such a damaging event, resources to ensure recovery can be made beyond planning, i.e. from the funds of the contingency fund, which in some ways facilitates this work and is no longer possible for more than one year after the adverse event, so it is necessary to plan the funds. The stone dig in Podpeča and Bezovica are not harmful cases and cannot be financially repaired. In view of the fact that you have already indicated that EUR 100 000 is available for the Guca beach and EUR 700 000 for the Krnica beach, I hope that the municipalities, as well as the country, are also providing funds for the reserve and can also remedy such harmful events. However, I agree that this beach in Krnica is large or requires a large amount of funding and is less possible for municipalities. I agree with you that it is necessary for the Government to also repair damage after the floods in September 2010, but it is true that the census was made, reviewed and validated by the technical documentation for 20 municipalities, so these two beaches are not the only ones, 20 of them in Slovenia, and their total value is more than EUR 10 million, which means that all together we should make a great effort to provide funds for the rehabilitation of all these reptiles from that damaging event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to ask the minister a question. In fact, we note that the trend of those companies, Europeans that have moved their production to the Far East a few decades ago, is now a trend to move this production back to Europe. Since Slovenia lies at the intersection of the 5th and 10th Transport Corridor, it has a very favourable geographical position, since investors, although we have very expensive plots, that the acquisition of construction permits takes several years, still have a lot of interest in these companies to move production to Slovenia, because we are within the European Union, within the Schengen border and so on. But these investors run into another problem. We must be aware that we are not alone, that Croatia is now in the European Union, Hungary, Slovakia and that we have competition in this area. Our work is already much more taxed than in other countries, however. In order to attract an investor, it is necessary for the state to also approach aid because some countries are just competing with which more of these investors will attract to their country because they see the benefits. In order for the investor to come, he first wants the state to help him co-finance the investment, and secondly, the investor expects incentives for employment by the state. Foreign countries have certain systems, certain ways to do so successfully and attract these investors. I have seen one comparative study of these industrial parks in neighbouring countries, how they function, how many countries contribute to employment. This comparison shows that Slovenia is not competitive with them. That's why I'm asking you: Is our country also considering some systematic promotion of the employment of foreign investors and not just the incentives of those unemployed? This is not evident from the current rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Ms. Anja Kopač Dark will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u274	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. As far as attracting foreign investors and encouraging these foreign investments in the Republic of Slovenia is concerned, it would probably be more appropriate to ask my colleague from the Ministry of Economic Development covering this area. A VEM point is also being prepared for investors, where all data will be collected. As regards the promotion of employment in relation to foreign investors, Slovenia has a regulated practice that the Labour Market Regulation Act, which is covered by our Ministry, regulates the issue of labour market services and one of them is an active employment policy. Active employment policy means, in particular, a set of measures aimed at increasing employment and reducing unemployment. The active employment policy measures therefore constitute an intervention aimed at directly addressing employment and labour market problems. Individual active employment policy programmes include unemployed persons, job seekers and, in particular, those whose employment is at risk, employees as well as employers under certain conditions. Active employment policy funds, i.e. employment subsidies, training resources, are allocated to individual employers through public invitations. We thus give all employers who are prepared to employ unemployed persons in subsidised jobs. Therefore, the same arrangement is for a foreign investor, for a domestic investor, if he is established in the Republic of Slovenia, employs unemployed persons who are clearly defined. Because you need to know that in Slovenia, active employment policy funds, other than public works, are financed from European funds, which is the basis of an operational programme that is coordinated with the European Commission and which in fact assumes that European funds must be spent primarily to subsidise vulnerable jobs. These are in the Republic of Slovenia at the moment absolutely older unemployed persons without adequate education. In fact, as a country, we have a commitment that the European funds we have for an active employment policy are primarily devoted to the employment of these persons. So, as regards the active employment policy financed in our country through European funds, we have clear criteria for who can obtain a subsidy for employment. In this context, the scheme should also be mentioned both at the level of the European Union, where it specifies the company, the extent to which it can acquire funds and what it must fulfil for the purpose of aid, as these subsidies also fall within the framework of State aid. These are all arrangements that are in the Republic of Slovenia as well as in other European countries and have the same possibility of foreign investors as domestic investors. They're completely even here. We now have the subsidy programmes for the employment of young people, for the employment of older unemployed persons and, therefore, in this area, everyone can do the same. However, we do not have an active employment policy to say that we give for the employment of young people, not unemployed persons, for example persons with a high level of education, to a foreign or domestic investor who would open up a business and hire. This is not because active employment policy measures designed for vulnerable groups need to be reduced by the State to grant them a subsidy for their employment and thus, of course, to increase their employment opportunities compared to other categories in the labour market. However, as far as the questions relating to incentives for foreign investors are concerned, it is actually within my colleague's purview and, of course, if you would like to address the question to him in the future, he will be happy to answer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u276	With this explanation you have confirmed what I said before that we do not have this hearing in Slovenia. Actually, I'm aware of this, I'm going to say it in concrete terms. This is an investor who would hire 100 employees within 3 years. You probably don't expect an investor to come to Slovenia to open up a disabled company to need such and other experts, and he wants to know before he decides to invest in us or in a foreign country, what he can expect from the country in terms of employment incentives. What you said earlier about the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of the Economy will ensure co-financing of investments. However, it does not matter whether there are 10 employees in the 10 million investment or 350, because we should probably be aware that if there is a net wage somewhere between the minimum wage and the average wage, each investor will pay about EUR 4 000 200 in our contributions and income to receive about EUR 7 000 in other benefits from employees who receive wages and then spend additional money. This is why foreign countries are aware of this and find this money. It is not true that we cannot give this money to investors under some European rules in order to obtain unlawful aid. Hungary will put between 4 000 400 and 8 000 euros into employment. How can they and we can't? They are probably aware that this is useful for the country and that the country gets it back quickly. We don't have that option with us, and we don't have a neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u278	I have said that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs has at its disposal measures of active employment policy financed by European funds, where the restriction is such as. Therefore, we can grant subsidies for the employment of vulnerable categories, which are determined both by a Regulation at European Union level under State aid and otherwise. We could choose to grant highly skilled personnel employment subsidies, but we would probably be faced with the question of whether this is appropriate. Because if someone can find employment on their own in the labour market, on the other hand, we have 117 thousand unemployed persons, of which more than 50 per cent are long-term unemployed, it is the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs' task in terms of employment, that the funds they have are primarily investing in the employment of the most vulnerable, because the rest of the market find employment on their own. The new investor, domestic or foreign, shall decide on an investment in the country when he looks at all the costs. I really don't know if you really think that spending public resources to subsidise my employment, regardless of who's taking these jobs, would be a worthwhile investment by the state, so that jobs – and then for one year if we paid the money, we would give 4 000 or 7 000 euros for the subsidy, pay all the social contributions and the next year, when there would be no more of these subsidies, this employer would decide to go elsewhere. So, here's a number of aspects and everyone decides, but we want employers who calculate costs and come consciously. If they are willing to employ the most vulnerable categories, please ask for the term you mentioned, disabled people, that they do not want to open up disabled companies; many of our applicants at the Employment Institute between 117 000, are not disabled in any way, are only unemployed and if they are unemployed for more than 6 months, they are entitled to the subsidies which the State grants to them for their employment. [[…]] I believe that many employers who open jobs in the Republic of Slovenia are using these subsidies and we are able to pool these subsidies so that the employer receives a subsidy for their costs, but for the unemployed person who is vulnerable and for whom the country rightly allocates money in order to reduce its costs in the labour market. This is always an active employment policy and these are the objectives of an active employment policy in all European countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has a request for a debate in the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u280	Yeah, I'd take that business opportunity. But I can't understand you, you said he'd spend it if we paid for one year, then he'd go somewhere else. I don't understand how an investor will hire 300 workers when he invests 10 million in a production in Slovenia and then goes elsewhere the second year. He's not going. These contributions, which the state will pay, will be paid back in one year. This company is going to be here for at least ten years, and it's going to be so much work. However, if the company decides to go to the neighbouring country, none of this will happen. It is true that at least something should be employed if the new production brings it here, it is unlikely that it can only employ those who are over 55 years of age or other vulnerable groups of the unemployed; it needs young people as well. How many young people do we have with diplomas at the Employment Service? Many who are capable flee; how much is invested in the education of one such young person. I don't have the data, but you probably have how many of them are in the employment office; because they're already pretending that those waiting at the institution have higher education than those working at the institution. And the opportunity to give such experts; it is also about training. If someone brings some production that is not yet in Slovenia, which is highly technological and brings new technologies, they cannot train workers in Slovenia because they are not in Slovenia, even outside they must be trained. Do we have a chance to train them? We don't. This is why neighbouring countries take care of and have such a policy. In areas where GDP is less than 75% of the average European, it is also possible to co-finance up to 70% of a given case. That's what it says in there that aliens do. We are all in the European Union and we co-finance or encourage the employment of those for two or three years; then they are unemployed. However, we do not invest in those employees who will be able to work all the time. And this company brings other effects, these effects are multiplied, from cooperatives, transport to logistics; we do not see this. Then we wonder why there are no foreign investments in Slovenia, why we are the last of all others. And we have one of the best jobs in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Dr. Franc Trček will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor and the Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It has been seven weeks since the president and member of the board of Darsa – Mr Matjaž Knez and Mr Franc Skok were dismissed. We found out in the media that because of, quote, "worst breaches of obligations". We also learned from the media that this resolution was relatively turbulent — security guards, a ban on entering the office, an attempt to confiscate mobile phones, and so on. We have also previously learned from the media that the pressure on the previous composition of supervisors was to do this before. In short, I would like an explanation of these, if I may call them, false reasons for this resolution. On the other hand, I am interested in something else, and I am also referring this question to both ministers – the responsibility of supervisors. The financial responsibility of the supervisors, which we have under our legislation, is also not being exercised in practice. I am not a lawyer, representing these two gentlemen; I am interested in operating systems. I want to know: When will overseers be financially responsible for their decisions? As this has been done, as the media has said, I could say through my thumb that the gentlemen will hire lawyers, will sue the state or some para-state company, the agency, in this case Dars, and in the end we will pay back the taxpayers and taxpayers. I would therefore ask both ministers to enlighten me with the answer to the question: What are these worse breaches of obligations? When will we finally introduce this practice that being in the supervisory world also means some responsibility, it also means financial risk; but not just, will I say, negative selection, political shopping? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble will answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u284	Dear Member, Dr. Franc Trček, as regards your question, I must point out that the Ministry of Finance – in accordance with the legal arrangements of the corporate governance system of state-owned companies – has no jurisdiction; neither does the appointment of members of the supervisory boards nor the appointment of the boards of companies with the capital investment of the state. The management of state-owned companies is governed by the Slovenian State Holding Act, which was fully implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in 2015 and thus implemented all the recommendations of the European Commission in the process of macroeconomic surpluses, macroeconomic imbalances and all the OECD accession recommendations. Thus, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, a modern and economically most developed and comparable system of corporate governance of state-owned companies is established. One of the main objectives of this system and the SDH Act is to separate the country or policy from the management of state-owned companies. Accordingly, the Government has adopted key management acts, such as the strategy endorsed by the National Assembly, further the annual work plan and the criteria for measuring the performance of companies with the capital investment of the country. On a proposal from the Government, the National Assembly also appointed members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. And this is where the role of the state or policy in the day-to-day corporate governance ends. The achievement of the objectives set out in the management acts is the task of SDH, in accordance with the principles of independence, transparency, economy, due diligence and accountability. On these foundations, SDH manages state capital investments; the Government and the National Assembly shall assess the efficiency of management on the basis of reporting and determining the achievement of the financial and non-financial objectives set out in the management acts, which shall be determined on the basis of the criteria adopted. The SDH shall, inter alia, implement its management entitlement by appointing members of the Supervisory Boards, and in no way forget that corporate governance of state-owned companies from the Supervisory Board shall continue to be carried out in accordance with the ZGD – Company Act applicable to all companies in the Republic of Slovenia, whether state or private. In accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act, SDH monitors the operations of state-owned companies and achieves the results of the objectives set and measures in the event of a negative derogation, in accordance with the rules. The Company Act provides that members of the administration shall, under certain conditions, recall and appoint the Supervisory Board of the company. At the same time, members of the Supervisory Board must act in the best interests of society in the performance of their duties; they must exercise due diligence on the part of a conscientious and honest economic operator. However, they are also jointly responsible for the damage caused by violations of their tasks. It is therefore clear from all this that I, as Minister of Finance, do not have any powers in the discharge and appointment of members of the board of state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, you'll add. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u286	Thank you. To what the Minister of Finance has already said with regard to the system's regulation, I can also add and stress that the Ministry of Infrastructure does not have any powers with regard to the appointment or resolution of members of the administrations and supervisory boards of state-owned companies. The Supervisory Council, as we know, is independent and accountable only to the congregation of society in its decisions; and this is only within the limits of the powers that the Assembly has over the Supervisory Council under the Company Act, as has already been said. The Dars Assembly is represented by SDH; in accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act, SDH and its authorities must act independently and responsibly and are not specifically bound by the instructions of the State authorities. I can also say that the Ministry of Infrastructure has only been informed of the discharge of the President and a member of the Dars administration from the means of public information. We have also not received any formal report on the reasons for this resolution, nor have we requested any such report because we are not entitled to it. At the Ministry, we are also not aware of the possible financial responsibility of the Supervisory Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček requires a supplement to the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. If I say I'm not satisfied with the answer, I won't say anything new. But at the same time, I'm not ignorant enough not to expect an answer as it will be. As both ministers said, SDH represents a society assembly. Who owns SDH? Now we know that SDH is some form, some kind of institution in its relative universe. Probably on purpose when it was designed. He could also touch the SDH personnel. However, I cannot agree that you, as a member of the government, have nothing to do with this; whether you are not responsible for managing the billions, at least the book value of so-called state investments, which is actually difficult for most ordinary citizens to imagine. If I'm a little cynical, Minister of Finance, you're also responsible for the revenue side of the budget; otherwise, you're responsible for whether some supervisors will finally start paying from their own wallet for and through the political pressures of forced relocation that we've witnessed to them recently; which was somehow logical to expect, we got some new SMC political entity that took some time to come up with a taste and start with a frame. [[Incomprehensible]] Still, I would expect some addition to your easy look at SDH — we have nothing to do with it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble will answer, please. [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Peter Gaspersich. [[No, no, ……]] I think there's almost a word I could say. Dr. Franz Trček, you have a request for a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u290	Thank you for saying that again. I'm gonna use this business opportunity, even though I'm probably going to be outvoted. If I were the Minister of Infrastructure myself, I would wonder, to put it mildly, if I had to learn from the media what is going on in an important company dealing with this infrastructure — the Highways Directorate. We have also learned what should be of interest to the finance minister, the debt reprogram; we have adopted some relatively good law in this reference to the National Assembly or amendment. Most of these companies are in the medium-term, long-term credited; also Austrian Asfinag and similar, so that they will not be listed further. However, these answers show that we have a system guard to ensure that there is some kind of control, that there should be some system order and responsible management or that what Mr Financial Minister has previously stated, in this society as little as possible. And so about SDH and so on about the DUTB, which is a worse management company, which we have already discussed twice at a certain meeting. And it is certainly this and also some fate of Darsa suitable for discussion in the National Assembly. I hope we can do it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u291	Thank you very much, dr. Franz Ducky. Your proposal will be voted on tomorrow by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote. Mag. Ange Logar will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u292	Thank you, Chairman. Saturday's events in Ljubljana were the most visible evidence of the poor management of the migration problem of the current government. The government has made a quick decision to set up a set of accommodation facilities for migrants or those who will apply for asylum and international protection, i.e. in the vast majority of those who have been rejected by the rest of the countries north of us; and to place them in totally inappropriate locations. In the case of Ljubljana, she has selected five locations, four of which are in a very crowded, narrow, urban environment. Last week, she brought about 90 migrants or asylum seekers to Kotnikov’s single home, which is 200 meters away from school, 200 meters away from kindergarten, 200 meters away from the health center. There is no responsible government that would lead to a security problem in such a crowded environment. That this is a security issue is also the Contingent Plan adopted by the Government in July, where it clearly points out, in addition to the additional problems expected, the provision of security and the disagreement between local communities until temporary accommodation is established. And as a result, the Sabbath assembly was one side and the other side. It wasn't the ones who did or didn't do it. It was the government's fault that brought a security issue into such a narrow environment. And the irresponsible government puts the security problem in urban centres; the responsible government, in cooperation with local communities, is looking for solutions that are acceptable to the environment and do not offer security problems. I'm asking the government: How will the government continue to ensure that a minimum or a certain number of migrants are accommodated in order to avoid such exacerbation in urban environments? When does it intend to coordinate with the local community on these accommodation facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u293	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic will answer. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u294	Thank you for your word, Vice President. First of all, I must deny your claim that migration flows are not controlled; migration flows are controlled. And the human resources plan does not confirm that this is a security issue; it is a question that is something that has bounced away from other political issues, which are also based on the consideration of the security picture. However, it is the right criterion for the security image, which is still favourable at the moment. Also, this method of securitisation, which is to look at all issues only through the prism of security issues, has its limits. The current government – apart from what has been known for quite some time in the Contingent Plan regulating applicants for international protection – is continuously coordinating and informing local communities. As you know, at the meeting of the leaders of the countries along the Western Balkan route, which was attended by our President of the Government, Dr Cerar, committed to maintaining a permanent accommodation capacity of 9,000 people, even if there are not so many migrants in Slovenia. Most of the locations for accommodation centres have already been established in the first migration wave, and are also published, are known. In view of the situation, we have not used them, but they have never been removed from the list and are also public. There is also a process of looking for new possible locations and analysing them all the time. I have already said in the introduction that accommodation capacities are needed because the government is implementing measures to control the migratory flow towards its reduction or the achievement of a manageable number of migrants on the Western Balkan route; this is why certain congestions occur in our territory. This is also served by these capacities, which also serve humane treatment and security. In determining locations, we aim to achieve the optimum structure of reception and accommodation centres and locations; from a logistical and financial point of view, as well as in terms of acceptability for the local community. We are aware that certain solutions are a great asset to small local communities, of course we understand and respect that. We are certainly trying to do everything in our power to get as close to them as possible. We also regularly inform the public, including the individual congregations, and we also take care of the exchange of views, the coordination of views, which today has been a lot of talk. I don't think there's anything on the government's side that's leaking any more. The security aspect is also taken into account and measures should also be considered to ensure adequate safety. As you know, we have done this in the past in individual locations. The expert services shall also examine the recommendations of the inspection services. When the facility ceases all these phases positively, the cost and feasibility assessment shall be checked at the last stage. Of course, due to the current reduction strategy, which the Slovenian government has also been carrying out very intensively in recent times and we are also successful, because our actions can also be attributed this cascade effect, this deterrent effect in the Western Balkans. The event in Macedonia is also due to the great efforts of the current government and the initiative of the Prime Minister of Macedonia, which has hit a very fertile ground in Macedonia. Recent data show that the hotspots in Greece may become more active, which is essential because the European Union has fallen asleep in protecting external borders. The ratios and locations of the takeover of migrants by the Austrian security authorities are also changing and priority for these facilities is also changing. The public must also be informed, and we will inform the public of any possible decision on the location in the future. An analysis is currently being carried out for the facilities in Kidrič, and this is what we talked about today. No decision has been taken; in Šenčur pri Kranj, in Vrhnika, where all conditions have not yet been laid down for the decision. The density or capacity needs are due to the measures taken by the Government to halt the flow in coordination with the other countries on the Western Balkan route, which Brussels disagrees with; however, at the last meeting, I firmly stated that we will continue with these efforts and coordinated measures to disagree with Slovenia's being caught up in uncoordinated policies in the north. You know that Germany is still running an open-door policy. Just yesterday, the chancellor on TV said that she would not actually close the door to migrants, which puts Slovenia in an unsustainable situation. In this regard, we will have to react in the future and will also respond appropriately with stepping-up measures, as we have done in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mag. Ange Logar will request additional answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u296	Thank you, Chairman. The Minister seems to have a learned answer to all questions about migration policy; she has not answered the specific question at all. You have settled migrants or asylum seekers in a single home on Kotnikova and in the Contingent Plan read that this capacity has 12 rooms without bathrooms, a single home has no shared kitchens or washing machines that users can use on their own. In addition, there is an urban, concentrated area — 200 meters from school, 200 meters from kindergarten, 200 meters from the health center. Who was the one who planned this place for the arrival of a security risk to the urban center? You had an attack on the Ljubljana Municipality building today or at night. The mayor says this is related to Saturday’s incidents or Saturday’s events on Kotnikova. If the ministry or the government had not used this capacity, if a migrant bus had not been sent to such an exposed city, this problem would not have occurred. So it is the direct responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and you do not answer how you will take care of the security of citizens and citizens in the future. The first is the security of citizens and citizens. And you're saying it's consistent with the local community – of course it's not true. Mayor Vrhnike made it clear that it was not harmonised; even your Secretary of State said non-chalantly at the press conference that the Government has no obligation to obtain the consent of local communities, we will say so when we decide when we find the right space. As a result, left policy is now joining these protests "for" with whose almost armed formations are covered. As a result of this problem, we have problems in the Municipality of Ljubljana. We have never discussed this in Ljubljana in the City Council, so you do not comply with Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u297	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic will answer. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u298	Thank you very much. I explained something myself today. You explained something yourself. One is agreement, the other is coordination. In the area of coordination, awareness and maximum approximation to local communities, we have done everything possible; we will also make great efforts in the future, because we believe they have the right to know, they need to know, because this is important for the overall management of this problem. As for Kotnikova in Ljubljana, this capacity has been foreseen in the Contingent Plan for some time now, and this information has long been known. But I don't know where such a great need for such a serious emphasis on security is, because if you've been watching television in the last few days, the students of the Faculty of Safety Sciences who directly limit this capacity have said to the camera themselves that they have absolutely no problem, that these persons, the applicants who are there, are not at all disturbed and that they are not disturbed. I really don't know where you come from with such intense security issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Mag. Ange Logar has a request for a debate in the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u300	Thank you, Chairman. We are now ahead of a new definition of the security problem. So if the students of the Faculty of Security Science say they don't have problems, then there's no problem; while there's 600 "against" and 800 "against", or how?Oh, my God! While the police have to set up a cordon so that these two groups do not meet, while there is a kindergarten, a health school and a primary school; there are students who are probably going out of Slovenia and who have only come to study there, those pensioners who will tell the government that there is no security problem. And once again, the government is not coordinating with the local community on these locations. If the government were to coordinate, these sporadic protests would not have taken place after different ends of the country. And it is precisely the manner in which the Minister's reply indicates that the dialogue for this government is somehow a monologue of the government; others should confirm what the government has proposed. These times are over. Now it's a period of democracy, we've encouraged civil society, everyone has a right to say something. And if there's a one-stop shop, there's a thousand 500 to a thousand 800 people out there who have opposite positions, if you have to intervene with a police cordon to separate both groups; then, Minister, it's probably a security problem. And in this regard, the responsible government will ensure that similar situations no longer occur. Once again, in the City Council of the Municipality of Ljubljana we have never discussed the locations in Ljubljana, and the Ljubljanaers will be the ones who will bear the consequences in the event that this vomiting will increase due to this security problem. We will be the Ljubljanaers we will be burdened with this. You, Minister, do not, because you are protected for 24 hours, so there will be no problem for you; but that does not mean that others will not have any – I hope not – problems. The responsible government finds agreement with the local community of locations that are acceptable to the local community; in this case, the government obviously did not provide such locations – not only in Ljubljana, but also in other locations. This once again confirms what started with the government’s misintroduction and identification of the problem of migration. One last piece of evidence, 580 says you can accept them now. By the time you received 10,000 of them, 9 thousand 500 went across the border, if you're saying you can only accept 580. I therefore propose that we hold a detailed discussion of this at the meeting of the National Assembly and ask the Government for in-depth answers, not simply read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mag. Logar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 37th meeting, on 15 November 2012, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision imposing on the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space to draw up a coordinated investment plan for transport infrastructure in two segments, with implementation by 2020 and a broader vision by 2030. A working group was also set up for this purpose at the beginning of the following year 2013 to prepare the next more operational document, this being called a resolution. We haven't seen this document today. Last year, a Transport Development Strategy was developed in the Republic of Slovenia, which is an extensive and professionally very good document; and it is a very good basis for further work in the development of investment in transport infrastructure. This resolution is intended to respond to three important segments: to define the development of transport and transport infrastructure, to ensure regular and even financing without major fluctuations, and to provide a basis for the absorption of funds in the financial perspective 2014-2020. We're already in 2016. Two years from the new financial perspective are already behind us and 2020 will be here very quickly, but the operational investment strategy in transport infrastructure will be relatively limited to 2020. The biggest problem remains to ensure regular and even financing of these infrastructure projects. Dear Minister, on the basis of this good document, the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, I ask you: With what measures will the Ministry follow this strategy, so that it will also come from a well-prepared work in the coming years?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gasperšič will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u304	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, for the question raised. Indeed, with the adoption of the Transport Development Strategy last year, Slovenia has met these requirements concerning pre-conditions for drawing up European transport infrastructure funds for the next financial perspective; this is for the current, we can now say 2014-2020. This means that all projects co-financed by European funds must have a basis and their eligibility must be justified in the strategy itself. Therefore, the realisation of projects co-financed by European funds in this current perspective is in fact already a reality the implementation of the measures contained in the strategy. It is important to know that these measures, which are key to pumping, are also already foreseen in the adopted budgets for 2016 and 2017. In addition, when the strategy was adopted, the government instructed the Ministry of Infrastructure to draw up an operational plan to implement the strategy. This strategy sets out only the necessary transport measures to be implemented over the coming years, but these measures do not have defined specific activities, do not provide for the necessary financial resources, do not provide for deadlines, nor does it involve carriers. It is therefore necessary to define this by what the government said at the time, an operational plan or now we call this national programme. And with the aim of preparing this document, we have also set up a working group at the Ministry, which is assisted by DRI through the preparation of professional bases. After examining all these starting points and sectoral legislation, we have decided that this document will be drafted as a national programme, as well as because of the legal requirements. We know about the Roads Act, which explicitly speaks about the preparation of the national programme, as well as the requirements or recommendations of the Court of Auditors speak of the need to prepare a national programme. This national programme will serve as the basis for implementing all these measures under the strategy. In addition to these necessary financial resources, deadlines and carriers for the implementation of these measures, it will also present a request for a so-called six-year operational plan for the implementation of concrete projects in all these specific areas – in the areas of roads, railways, aviation, maritime services and sustainable mobility. The national programme will be prepared for the entire period covered by the strategy by 2030; then, for the concrete implementation of this national programme, we will have a so-called six-year operational plan, which will be revised each year and will be a rough programme, a rough implementation plan. I can also say that the deadline for the preparation of this national programme, which was announced by the strategy last year, is one year from the adoption of the strategy, which means that this deadline will expire in July 2016. We are working at the Ministry of Infrastructure to accept this before this deadline. We want this national programme and the first operational plan for the six-year period to be adopted as soon as possible before this summer. At the same time, as it is very important, we also want to identify these financial resources that will be needed to implement the national programme, including, as you yourself have already mentioned, stable sources of funding. This source of funding will also be prepared together with this national programme and this law, which sets out these sources of funding or amendment, will also be attached to this national programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will request a further reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. We both know that in the financial perspective of 2014-2020 these funds are relatively small, as far as this national envelope for infrastructure projects allows, this is about 170 million, but this is relatively small. We're not going to give much work to this economy. I am pleased with this response to continue with the national programme. I would say that it is also necessary to lay down time hands, time obligations, and practice from this professional, theoretical work. You said that this national programme should be adopted by this summer, which means that the effects of this programme will be monitored in the first six years. By 2022 and by the beginning of 2023, this national programme will contain a specific specification of a specific set of projects, priority in all transport segments – railways, aviation, roads and maritime activities. And as you yourself have mentioned, in my view, the hardest part – constant and even funding – is that we know that the budget has been adopted for two years and that the existing budget for additional investment funds cannot be affected. This means that an additional resource needs to be found, additional options that will consistently finance transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u308	Indeed, this national programme will provide for these so-called individual types of infrastructure jackets, as long as they are foreseen for these activities after each year. It will also indicate what these priority projects are. However, the timeline and dynamics will be very precisely defined by this operational plan, which we will also, as it is said, be adopted and validated every year for the next six years, will provide a basis for budget planning for the coming years. We know that the budget for 2016 and 2017 has already been adopted. In this respect, projects are also more or less already designated and defined, so it will not be possible to make some substantial changes for these next two years in this respect. However, we are committed to providing this larger jacuzzi from 2018 on in particular for the area of the management of existing infrastructure, where we know that there has been a marked understatement in recent years. We need to do much more here in investment maintenance, in the area of new constructions, new projects, on road and rail infrastructure; in short, what can be done with budgetary resources. The second segment, as you said, is limited European resources, which will be able to implement measures in particular on so-called nuclear corridors, motorways and railways. A key project for the next financial perspective is a second-rate project, where funding in the form of a public-private partnership through this project company is envisaged, as has been explained and explained several times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has a request for a debate in the National Assembly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u310	Thank you very much, Vice President. I believe that investing in public infrastructure in the country, especially at this time or in the state in which it is, is the only way to encourage the economy to actually give people a job. We can only give this to them with new investments. Since this is an extremely important topic and an extremely important decision to which the Republic of Slovenia will go or what its path will be from the crisis, I propose that a public debate be held on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. Žnidar. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mrs Erika Dekleva will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u312	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Hello, fellow Members and Minister, Minister! I'd like to ask today: Why do the Ministry of Environment and Space and Gas pipelines not accept the so-called compromise route for the M8 transmission pipeline Kalce-Yelshane proposed by the Municipality of Pivka? The operators of the premises do not contest their proposal. In agreement with the Municipality of Pivka, foresters of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage confirmed that the pipeline could fit in as proposed by the municipality with a few delays to avoid protected forests and archaeological sites. All other carriers of the premises assessed the municipality’s proposal as more appropriate than the currently selected route. The compromise route is also called because the part is still taking place along the border of Krajina Park Pivška squeezing lakes and the Municipality of Pivka is prepared to move the park border accordingly. I am interested in how the Ministry of Environment and Space on the one hand supported the establishment of the Pivška Dried Lake Landscape Park, and you also participated in its establishment. Moreover, before 1998, the country proposed a regional park, first known as the Notran Regional Park, and then renamed the Snežnik Regional Park. Recently, however, the country has even proposed the region of the Pivsky Drizzling Lakes with the river Pivko to sign up to the list of World Heritage Sites of Unesco. On the other hand, the same State argues that the municipality of Pivka has re-insured the area and has sent the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Constitutional Court a request for an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of Article 11, paragraph 8, of the Pivška Dried Lakes Regional Park. I'm asking you: Why are you so strongly opposed to the proposal for a compromise route for the Municipality of Pivka if it is in all respects better than the currently selected route? Hydrological-hydraulic studies in the flood area in Pivska were not carried out at all and these studies can also show that the route chosen is not acceptable in the future. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u314	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, Members of Mrs Erika Girl, for the question raised. In the procedures of the State Spatial Plans, we often face a similar dilemma or similar procedure in terms of – the Ministry of Environment and Space is to blame. It is true, however, that in the case of State spatial plans, investors, in this case of course, Gas pipelines, and all carriers of space, which are more or less involved or in one variant, are not included in the other. And at the stage in which the preparation of this State Spatial Plan – we both know that it has been going on for several years – it is the obtaining of opinions by operators of space regulation and the decision on acceptability of influence before the approval of the proposal for the most appropriate variant in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. All the relevant professional bases necessary for this phase have been developed. In certain stages, in particular when the most appropriate option is chosen, the professional basis is proposed. In your case, you are talking about a variant that has not yet come to this stage in order to be proposed as the most appropriate option. Hereinafter, I will state some of the claims that are quite different from yours. However, I must say that this new proposed option is not yet at a stage where these two options could be even comparable. We know that an expert opinion has been drawn up on the effects of the pipeline on water, which states that the proposal is not the most problematic option. The conclusions of the environmental report indicate that a hydrological-hydraulic analysis will be necessary for floodwaters during the more detailed planning phase of the chosen corridor variant, which means that it is now too wide a corridor for this hydrological-hydraulic analysis to be needed. However, the narrowing of this corridor will be necessary, which is exactly why it has not yet been made. In the case of the implementation of all the envisaged mitigation measures and taking into account the results of further research – the area of cultural heritage and water – the environmental impact of the pipeline is assessed as acceptable. On this basis, the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia issued a positive opinion in December 2013 on the appropriateness of the environmental report. In accordance with the legislation in force, the investor will obtain environmental consensus during the more detailed planning phase of the choice. During the environmental impact assessment process, water assessment will be carried out in the form of a hydrological-hydraulic study, in accordance with the applicable regulations. However, if we are talking about this alternative route or if we can also talk about optimizing the variant proposed by the Municipality of Pivka, the meeting was held in February at the Ministry of Environment and Space with representatives of the Municipality of Pivka, an investor, this is the company Plinovovoda, and with all the security resources. At this meeting, the representative of the Institute for Forests explained that the alternative route proposal, i.e. by the foresters, was very poor. The proposal for the most appropriate option in the work under consideration – that is to say, a non-communal version – intervenes about a kilometer into the forest; a new proposal, namely a municipal one, intervenes ten kilometres. And of course, the proposal to move the gas pipeline corridor by the foresters is illogical, as it passes from the lower parts to the top of the planet, which is at the same time an erosionally unstable area. This is an extremely difficult access to construction machinery and permanent loss of forest. We, the builders, know what the erosion zone means. The proposal of the Institute for Forests was that the route could be optimised, but it should be aligned with all the carriers of the area. Then we are talking about representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, who explained that the proposed route crosses several archaeological sites, which is unacceptable in terms of the protection of cultural heritage because it is an extraordinary heritage [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mrs. Erika Dekleva, will you request a supplement to the answer so that the Minister can finish? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u316	Yeah, I'd like to hear the answer all the way. Besides, I don't know if I understood you correctly. You explain that the proposed compromise route is not good; or that it is not yet at a stage where both routes can be compared. If so, I would ask you to tell me how long it takes to assess this alternative route. In my opinion, this would probably take less time than the proceedings in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u318	Let me finish. It is the protection of cultural heritage, because it is an extraordinary heritage protected in 1984. The agreement at this meeting was to explore the procedural options for how to implement a second acceptable solution in the problematic section of the proposal. It's a variant 5 and it's a variant 4. I want to say, if we are speaking in this language now – what is possible by a variant that would be acceptable; and what is after this alternative that the congregation has given up. What procedure will be faster? I can assure you that no one can guarantee it. If the Institute for Forests does not agree to this option, as we said, ten kilometres across the forest; if the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage does not agree to move these archaeological sites and if the investor finds that it is not feasible for him as an operator of this route, we have said that the pipeline will rise to the hillside, so on a terrace, then there is not only a time perspective; but also a view whether this is even feasible. This is a procedure that is prescribed within State spatial plans and never, or in the last few years, is never an easy solution, which means that alternatives are always sought. However, how successful the ILO is or how successful the investor is in doing so is always the result of the real possibilities of a given field and the willingness of those who care about an area. On the one hand, we too, when it comes to natural sights; sometimes it is agricultural land, it can also be forests. So how many carriers of this space are ready for some alternative solutions. It is not possible to give such a simple answer at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk. Mr. Restoring is excusedly absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u320	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Fellow Members and Members of the House of Ministers! The government of Mira Cerar has completely subordinated its people to the key positions, completely subordinated the bad bank, and completely subordinated the state holding company; they have already set the right people, recently to the New Ljubljana Bank; and thus, the basis for the third wave of privatisation or, frankly, the basis for the new theft of state property is ready. That is true, some recent stories also bear witness. We've heard a lot about Pek, and today I'm going to ask a question about Alpina Giri. You probably all follow in the media what has happened to this company since the bad bank last year instead of the principal named Barbara Vtič Vraničar, who was former director of the Pohorje Sports Centre. Interestingly, named just by a bad bank and it brought this company to bankruptcy, apparently now it wants to do the same with Alpina. When this lady came to the company last year, this company had previously been operating positively, without lending; she had already announced three days later that there would be a change last year and that the company would be operating on a minus, which of course it did. He's threatening to forgive under the pretext of rebuilding a society that we know will go this way. Despite the fact that 55 people are being said to be fired, some 80,000 euros are ready for retirement, which means that we are talking about forgiveness of about 150 employees. There are currently 350 employees in the Alps, ten years ago there were thousands. They also want to move production. The director's purpose is more than obvious – to destroy the company, to close the plant in Žirje. Then, when this matter is cleared, someone will buy it cheap, probably with that money parked on some Cayman Islands, Luxembourg, or some other tax haven. We met a lot on this subject during the weekend with the mayor of Gorenja Vas - Poljane, the mayor of the municipality of Žiri, with employees and trade unions. We are clear in four requirements – that the Alpine must stay in Ziri; that Director Barbara Vtič Vraničar must leave; that an advisory agreement with Admetam should be broken, which Alpina pays a million euros a year for advice; and that any ideas should be left to forgive employees at the Alpine plant in Žir. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: How do you determine how you see the problem, what are the plans of a bad bank, for which you, as finance minister, are responsible, whether these requirements will be met or not? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dr. Dusan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Dear Member Jean Mahnic, Alpina Jiri is a company owned by the Bank Management Company. It was owned by the DUTB on 5 May 2015 when it was concluded; it was economically owned by the transfer of the debts of the Alpine to a bad bank imposed on the company by its former owners. The transfer of these debts was carried out at the end of 2013 and in 2014. The perpetrators of the company's over-indebtedness and insolvency, also confirmed by the court, are its former owners. The claim that DUTB is exhausting the company is not in line with the activities and restructuring programme carried out by DUTB in the Alps. First, DUTB confirmed the concept of financial restructuring prepared by the previous management and thus made a compulsory settlement, which was concluded a year ago. The DUTB has converted its debt into capital totalling EUR 12 million in secured and unsecured claims and has helped to ensure that other bank creditors have also confirmed a compulsory settlement. Unfortunately, however, the measures proposed by management have proved insufficient in the enforcement procedure and further action is needed to ensure the long-term survival of the company. At the time of such an engagement, DUMB is unwarranted to talk about the depletion of the company by a bad bank. Business restructuring is painful and requires internal optimization of production locations and business functions in the company. The company did not reach its annual business plan for 2015. The business plan for 2016 was submitted and dealt with by the management authorities, together with a five-year business plan, which also provides for a large-scale reorganisation of the business group, with the first positive effects of the restructuring – contracts by new customers, a significant improvement in the business of retail and the like. With regard to my role or the role of the Ministry of Finance, we must be aware that the DUTB must be independent and operate independently in restructuring and take decisions. Independence, of course, does not mean that DUTB can do anything with the society of which it is a creditor. The Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks provides that the DUTB must operate transparently, economically, effectively and effectively. The DUTB shall ensure the transparency of its business by documenting all decision-making procedures to enable their reconstruction. The DUTB shall operate economically if the resources used by DUTB to carry out its activities have been obtained at the right time and at the best price. DUTB is effective if the best relationship between the cartridges used and the effects achieved has been achieved. The DUTB shall be successful if it has achieved the objectives set in advance. The Ministry of Finance will, after its supervisory function in the DUTB, verify the appropriateness of the conduct of the restructuring procedure. We are also aware of the company's great role in the local community and the need for business restructuring to ensure the company's long-term sustainability. From this point of view, the Ministry of Finance has already organised a meeting on 18 February, in particular by Alpina Jiri. For tomorrow, he is planning another meeting that will bring together all stakeholders and inform the Ministry of Finance where the problems that you are also alerting; whether they are real problems or not. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u324	Thank you, Vice President. The Minister also spoke about the past, which I didn't ask him. He spoke in the same way as the principal said; as the director said when she was the director of the Pohorje Sports Centre, it went bankrupt. As far as the independence of the bad bank is concerned, Mr Maramor gave Alpina Giri EUR 3 million, provided that Admetam Business Consultants from Germany receives a million-euro advisory agreement. The representative of this company, Admetam, is a former associate and close personal friend of the Executive Director of the Bad Bank, Mr Janez Škrube. Is that your independence?Oh, my God! In addition, Admetam was selected without an invitation to tender. If this is not about the intentional exhaustion of the company, Mr. Maramor, then I don't know what intentional exhaustion is. This is a school case of intentional exhaustion, which is what is happening now. Not to mention that she is being forgiven in the Alps in development; at the same time, the Director is hiring foreigners. She hired, say, an Italian designer who still can't draw a shoe, let alone make it, and pays him 8 to 9 thousand euros a month to drive it every day from Italy to Jura and back. Isn't that the exhaustion of the company? I used to be on the phone with the mayor of Jirów, who told me that the exact requirements I now made would also be filed tomorrow at the Bank Claims Management Company. I wonder, Mr. Marble, are we going to get answers like this tomorrow? If we don't, we won't talk anymore, we won't negotiate in this way anymore; but there will be a protest meeting in front of the Alpine in the Jurassics this week.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u326	Like I said, tomorrow this meeting will be with all the stakeholders. The first meeting was quite one-sided from the point of view of the exchange of information and will receive these answers tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has a request for a debate in the National Assembly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u328	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that a broader debate be held in the National Assembly on my question and on Alpina Jiri. Alpina Jiri currently holds 30% of the world market share. At the last Olympic Games in Sochi, 63 collages were achieved with the products of this company. Production is declining, warehouses will start to empty, money is obviously to open up new products in Bosnia. But you're going to fire 40, 50, 60 years old people who have nowhere to go. We will not agree that the institution will now start offering some alternative solutions; because we will not give Alpine. Alpina always had a home in Žirjeh, and the Žirovci built it with their own hands, including my old parents. Mr. Maramor, I appeal to you to do everything in your power – I believe today that you and Secretary of State Draganjo will arrange – that tomorrow at the bad bank they will say: yes, we will meet your requirements. To immediately cancel the corruption contract with Admetam, a million euros is for them, it is said that a million euros will already be saved here; to immediately call off Director Barbara Vtic Vraničar to immediately abandon any idea of forgiveness, then there will be another 800 000 euros savings, so we are talking about a million 800; to agree to a different restructuring of the company. Former Directors Martin Kopač and Bojan Starman have prepared this proposal and will present it at a bad bank tomorrow. If you're not prepared to accept these four demands, I'll tell you that there will be a protest in the jury like we saw in Shenchure. Because that's enough. You named your bad bank, you named your SDH, and now you take responsibility. The government is the one that runs state property, and now Alpina owns 100 percent of the country. Before that, we have heard the question of how to kick Savo, unfortunately no one in Gire writes Rigelnik, and no one is named Petan, because I know that these gentlemen are all set up immediately. These are your boors, which are why you came to power and you have a government today. It's enough for people, I've been talking to people all weekend, and I've been talking to people all week. Local policy and the local population are united. And believe me, next year Alpina will celebrate a 70-year-old; but I am not sure that this government will be its third. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr. Marjan Dolinšek will ask the finance minister Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u330	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greeting to all in attendance! The Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is committed to the effective functioning and protection of the broadest social interest in Slovenia and the European Union in the collection of taxes, customs and charges. It is the institution of the most important fiscal role in ensuring stability, funding sources, national public finances and the budget of the European Union, which also directly affects the state and development of the national economy and the protection of the financial interests of the local communities of Slovenia and also of the European Union. The mission of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is the effective and fair collection of taxes, the protection of the company, the provision of general security and protection of residents, product safety, environmental and nature protection, the protection of intellectual property rights and the financial interests of Slovenia and the European Union. The strategic objectives of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in the period 2015-2020 are the effective collection of benefits in cooperation with the environment and the development of partnerships, the development and results-oriented organisation and the integrated information system. With regard to the functioning of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the pursuit of strategic objectives, I would like to ask you the following, distinguished Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor: What is the amount of the outstanding liabilities of the debtors of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of the outstanding taxes and contributions collected by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia? How much is this share of the outstanding liabilities of the State and direct state-owned companies by the Sector? How has tax enforcement improved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u332	Dear Member Marjan Dolinšek, the total debt owed by virtue of the compulsory duties which are within the purview of the collection of Furs is 31. 12. 2015 amounted to €386 million and was 31 per cent. 12. 2014 reduced by €34.6 million and 2.4% respectively. Maybe there's a structure. As of 31st day. 12. In view of the one year previously, Furs notes a reduction in the total tax debt on the cash countries and municipalities, as well as an almost unaltered state of debt on the SGEI and the health treasury, taking into account the fact that the debt situation in the SGEI and the health treasury in December is also conditioned by the increased contributions made in December due to the payment of the additional salaries paid. Debt is reduced as early as January. The tax debt consists of an active and conditionally recoverable state. The active tax debt amounted to EUR 756.5 million at the end of 2015; the conditionally recoverable debt was EUR 630 million. According to state 31. 12. 2014 is a recorded reduction in the active debt of EUR 40.6 million and 5.1 % respectively; and an increase in the conditionally recoverable debt of EUR 5.9 million and 1% respectively. In the structure of the tax debt, the active debt represents 54.6% and is conditionally recoverable 45.4% of the debt. Your next question was how much of the outstanding liabilities of the State and Company Sector were directly owned by the majority state. Furs keeps data on the tax debt under very different criteria, but data on the required criterion relating to the debtor's ownership structure cannot be provided because we do not have this record. How has tax enforcement improved? In 2015, Furs collected EUR 14.1 billion of government revenue for all public funds, namely EUR 513.9 million and 3.8% more than in 2014. At the same time, a tax debt reduction of €14.7 million and 2.4% were found in 2015. These results show a significant improvement in payment discipline in the payment of compulsory duties, as in 2015, more revenues were paid on a voluntary basis for around EUR 550 million, before enforcement was introduced; claims were also settled. For the purpose of increasing voluntary payments, Furs carries out a number of activities, such as raising awareness of individual target groups, simplifying payments, sending reminders and the like. "voluntary" is our number one priority. With regard to active recovery measures in 2015, Furs recovered a debt of EUR 1.1 billion, of which EUR 1.05 billion is a tax debt and EUR 136 million is a debt. On the basis of the measures and activities carried out, EUR 476.7 million was recovered from debt, of which EUR 454.8 million from tax liabilities and 21.8 million from non-taxable liabilities. The maximum share of payments is paid according to the conclusions, namely 52,5 %. Payments received on the basis of reminders are followed – 44.3%; and payments made on the basis of telephone recovery with a 3.2% share of all payments. In the case of taxable persons who have outstanding obligations in the bookkeeping record, while being entitled to reimbursement of the tax after the invoice or decision, Furs has a netting of liabilities, which was 48 million in 2015. I added some additional information.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker will ask the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion; Mrs Alenki Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u334	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Minister, the financial period 2007-2013 has expired in 2015. The use of European funds, I believe, is an important issue, but we know that the European cohesion policy funds have been practically the only one our country has and can exploit. That is why it is so much more important that we manage to use them so successfully and wisely. In the last two years, the Committees of our National Assembly – the Committee on European Union Affairs – have also had a number of debates about whether Slovenia will be able to draw on the European cohesion policy or whether we will have to leave millions of euros in Brussels. These issues have been on the table many times, we have dealt with them a lot, we have had extraordinary meetings of various committees, including the common ones. According to some forecasts, more than half a billion euros are to be left in Europe. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: Have you done whatever is necessary at this point to ensure that funds are drawn from the old perspective 2007-2014? What are the figures for using the European funds of the past period at the end of 2015 when this financial perspective is concluded?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Alenka Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u336	Dear Member, honourable Members and others! Thank you very much for that question. Why? When I took over this area, and after some extraordinary sessions and discussions in this national assembly, as well as elsewhere, some or most thought that what I had set out at the outset would not be possible to carry out. I have to say, I've been listening to all these criticisms, and I've been thinking a lot about them, and then we went into action. And today I can report that we have succeeded, which I am very proud of. At the end of 2015 it was a very important milestone, 31. 12. 2015 was the date on which the period of eligibility of the costs of the previous financial perspective ended. Therefore, the whole year 2015 has been extremely dynamic and very difficult, we have worked with full steam, certainly not only on the SVRK, but here I can talk about all the resources, about the Ministry of Finance, which has also been extremely helpful and has also been extremely active. And I'm also talking about all the beneficiaries who worked full-time all year. Finally, I can tell you that it was worth it, because the information I am about to present to you now suggests that Slovenia has been successful in this area. Before I go to the data, however, I think that the first information we compare with other European countries is very eloquent. Here I can say that Slovenia reached 4th place in Europe at the end of 2015 according to official data, which is a kind of result. A year and a half ago, at the end of June 2014, we were still in 19th place. Slovenia had €4.1 billion at its disposal; from the Slovenian budget we paid good 4.3 billion, which means a good 5% more than the funds were available. The percentage is higher than 100% due to the so-called additional spending rights, which is a measure that you Members know very well about, which you also discussed in the National Assembly. For all three operational programmes that Slovenia has concluded, we have paid off over 100%. How is the refund in the Slovenian budget? At the end of the year, we sent €3.95 billion of claims for reimbursement to Brussels. Here we come at 97.12%, I'm talking about all available funds. Payments to operators were paid up to 31. 12. This is crucial and we can send claims for reimbursement to Brussels up to 30. This year's 6th. Even so, this perspective will not be officially completed, the projects are already ending throughout this year and we will actually know if we were finally successful, only in 2018. Finally, there is no region in Slovenia, no municipality where there would be no project co-financed by the European Union. And key information – an additional 45,000 jobs have been created with this cohesion. Thank you so much for this opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Request for complete response, please, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I hope that there will be no protest because the state has co-financed at least one project in all 211 municipalities. At this point, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that, just as President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, we have been given this honour to monitor the use and use of European funds, I see that much effort has been made. What you have achieved is, in some ways, your thanks and thanks to your professional colleagues, by which you have achieved these results and regularly report them to us at our meetings. My additional question, which is relevant at this point or I am interested in, is: Did this commitment, which you have invested in drawing on European funds in the past financial perspective, which has cut into the new financial perspective, have any impact on the fact that you have prepared documents to draw on the future financial perspective 2014-2020? So perhaps I would ask you to explain to the public how this will take place in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Minister Alenka Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u340	Thank you very much for the additional question. At this point, I can say that last year we were able to set up a system to start drawing on or using funds also in the new financial perspective. There's work to be done in this area. We have prepared a regulation, you have adopted two proposals from ZIPRS, amendments to the law, and a regulation on the implementation of local development. In our ministry, we have prepared instructions that are needed for the functioning system. The guidelines are always in the process of upgrading, because even by the European Commission, for a number of areas, the final instructions are still coming, which we hope will be somehow completed by the end of June of this year. But that doesn't mean it's not possible to start pumping. It is important that we issue the first decision on support for a concrete project 29. Last year's 7th. Since then, 39 decisions have been made. The total value of today's decisions is already EUR 370 million. Conclusion – we are not yet in full swing, but the system is in place and functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u341	Thank you very much. We're moving to round two. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u342	Thank you. Nice greeting to all of us who have endured so far! Dear Minister, at the outset, I ask you not to lecture me on how the government, you and the Prime Minister are not responsible for the management of property, but it is SDH. The Supervisory Board has set up this coalition and it all begins there. However, I have the same question as for the Prime Minister, by really wanting to hear your opinion on three matters. We had quite a few meetings in this national assembly on this subject. Unfortunately, you weren't there. The first question is about managing a concrete investment, it is Sava d. d. I want to know: How can the government order a management company that, after the amount it sets, something has to sell SDH, even if SDH does not know if it has the money? To the explicit question raised here, in this National Assembly, whether it has the money to do so, the answer was that the government also cannot order SDH to purchase this claim or investment. I'm interested in your personal opinion on this procedure. Otherwise, I think this ruling of the government is illegal. Maybe someone will do the same. If tourism is really a strategic industry for Slovenia, which you always point out to us, why don't you save Lipice tourism, why don't you buy Slovenian skis, why don't you buy Bohin hotels; but only Sava d. d. is interesting. Second point – staffing in NLB. 5 billion taxpayers' money ended up in our banks because of past mistakes, we don't have time to talk about it now. I want to know: How do you assess the procedure for replacing the Supervisory Board with the NLB? Even the fact that Banka Slovenije did not specifically require a replacement, although the government argues that at least two of the supervisors did not meet the conditions for being appointed to the Supervisory Board. And the third question: Do you think it is right that the Slovenian State Holding our three companies Paloma, NKBM and Adria Airways sell to postal collectors in Cyprus or Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u344	It is extremely unusual to ask the same question to the President of the Government and then to the Minister, when he has already told the Prime Minister how the government, which has adopted these decisions or which is leading all these processes, is thinking and what the Government's arguments are. I'm not going to explain my personal opinions here, I'm just going to stick to what the president said. But I'm going to explain the logic of selling through these special-purpose companies. Such acquisitions are normal acquisitions; almost all acquisitions take over through specific dedicated companies, and this is nothing special. The use of a dedicated company, says Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), which is established in any of the jurisdictions of a more favourable tax regime and is included in a wider group of companies of the selected investor and in the obligations for which its owners or companies are responsible as weddings at a higher level of the group is a completely normal way of investing financial funds. This does not mean a change of buyer. Private capital deposits are final and direct owners and fully guarantee commitments made in privatisation procedures. It is also quite common and consistent in the acquisition procedures with the takeover Act to guarantee corporate ownership obligations for companies at a higher level or to issue guarantees to banks. I had this in my class, and I explained to the students how it was going. It's nothing unusual. The use of a dedicated company does not constitute a breach of the Companies Act or of any other law. For example, purpose companies are also aware of the Insurance Act, the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks and the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies. They are usually set up to finance and take risks. SDH, which conducts privatisation procedures together with financial advisers, always carefully and responsibly examines the seriousness and financial capacity of the buyer and the ownership structure of established dedicated companies. That's what he has to do. That's how I answer your third question. From the point of view of recruitment in NLB. As a minister, the ECB's request by the NLB Chief Supervisor was transmitted to the Minister that the composition of the Supervisory Board should not be appropriate; in two respects. First of all, there are too few. — 7. There are required to be more than 9 because of all the committees, since they were then one and the same in the individual committees of the Governing Council. Second, with regard to the knowledge and competence of members from the point of view of banking. This was also shown in the table shown to us by Banka Slovenije, very clearly, the competences with red color were determined. This foundation that the Supervisory Board needs to be changed and strengthened in both directions, in the direction of competence and in the direction of a larger supervisory board has also been given by Banka Slovenije to our representatives at the Ministry of Finance. And then we passed it on to SDH. Regarding the management of the Sava, d. d. I'm not a lawyer. I've told you many times. The legal opinions here are different. The legal opinions I then saw were that the Assembly has different powers in the single system than in the two-tier system and that such a decision is appropriate in the single system. I would like to say this again, when choosing individuals who are in the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank, the administration of SDH or other human resources decisions that are not within my jurisdiction, I had nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek has a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you know I appreciate your work. And if we took the time and came to some committee, we could discuss these things. And as Minister of Finance, you are definitely responsible for the management of state property. As far as NLB is concerned, bank experience is expected to be lacking for supervisors. The Supervisory Board gives the only one who has had experience in banks, Mr. Košak. That's a great argument. You have not said anything about the fact that supervisors are not supposed to meet the conditions, but I do not think that this debate will end today either. I'm also curious: Who do you think should answer if the supervisors you gave over the SDH or put SDH in the NLB will not be licensed by the Bank of Slovenia? Who, in particular, must be responsible for this? As for Sava, d. d., I agree, you're not a lawyer, and I'm not a lawyer. I don't think it's some kind of nuclear physics that you know that it's hard to charge someone for a specific amount that they have to give to someone who doesn't even know if they want to. But I am more concerned that the government of Telekom than the congregation did not want to decide, does not decide with Alpina, lets Pek go bankrupt; only with Savi, d.d., does it intervene. And it's not only that SDH has to buy just in case it doesn't affect one too much, let's give it a little more Kad. And indeed, Minister, that is not how state property is managed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u348	I would answer only the question of who will answer – of course the one who proposed, because it cannot be different. This was suggested by the SDH administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u349	Thank you. Mr. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u350	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On my question about Alpina Jura, you have forgotten before, and I, too, have not been present with the Minister of Economy. You did not ask me to comment on the written or oral reply of the absent minister. I want the Minister not to answer me in writing, but to have the Minister answer me orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly. However, since he is not here tomorrow and the Minister will be present at a meeting at a bad bank, and you, Mr Hainz, please, I have here more than 300 signatures of employees in the Alps to hand over this petition to the Minister of Economy; and I will also check if you have them to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u351	The Minister will answer you within the time available. Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the next question for the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesno Györkös Žnidar and Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Majo Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u352	Thank you. Count it to me in procedural terms. First of all, where is Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, given that she has not apologized?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u353	We'll check it out. The secretary's on her way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u354	Thank you, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The government is facing exactly what we announced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that two waves of migrants will hit Slovenia sooner than later – one that has been coming from the Republic of Croatia since October on the Balkan route; and one that will begin to return Austria. As some northern countries are also restricting, especially Scandinavian, including Germany, Austria has now begun to restrict, as well as Slovenia, we see what happened today at the Macedonian-Greek border. However, I am glad that the police, even though they had to use force, managed to keep migrants on the border who wanted to break into the territory of a sovereign state by force. The countries that have rejected migrants are now returning, but it is worth stressing that these are people who have not been entitled to international protection; in short, they are people who are extremely ill-willed and who are obviously asking for asylum in the Republic of Slovenia. Our opinion on this is clear; I hope that this opinion is shared by the Modern Centre Party; as I have heard in the media, the very sharp amendments to the International Protection Act will also propose an early deportation. Here you will get the support of the Slovenian Democratic Party under the amendments, because this is our proposal from months ago. You've done the wrong thing to solve the problem of setting up migrants. We have witnessed a number of protests, and the bottom line is that now these migrants who were not from countries where there was war — Morocco, Algeria, Iran, Pakistan — are being placed in migrant centers close to primary schools, high schools, kindergartens, and colleges. If we are talking about those of our citizens and citizens who are under 18 years of age, you have therefore questioned the safety of our youngest citizens and citizens. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Did the police, especially Sova, prepare a risk assessment, a security assessment? And I'm asking the Minister of Education: How did you coordinate with the government? Do you think your response to the professors' letter is appropriate? I think 24 have signed them against the housing of juvenile migrants, and it is necessary to know what this means for minors, because they are not said to be as old as they are. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u355	Thank you very much. You must have thought of the Minister of the Interior. Minister Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u356	Thank you for your word. That's right, you said - the Minister for Foreign Affairs, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u357	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u358	which is not even so wrong in this situation, given that the internal and external dimensions of migration are so intertwined that this must also be addressed in this context. [[…]] That is what we are doing, but unfortunately there is no foreign minister today. Today there has been a lot of talk about accommodation capacities and economic migrants in this connection. However, I must say that this formulation, which also stems from your parliamentary question of placing illegal economic migrants rejected by the target countries, is too general a formulation that sounds striking and politically useful; however, the situation is much more complex and does not allow for such generalisations. I have already explained today that in this situation it is not a return under the Dublin Regulation, but a rejection in accordance with the criteria agreed upon. As I believe, you are very well aware of the initiative of the Prime Minister, who is at the moment producing very good results in Macedonia. I hope that there will be a trend towards continuing in this direction in order to allow entry into this path only to those people who actually need international protection; and that economic migrants are eliminated as soon as possible. It is the rejection of persons who are in the process of returning to the Republic of Croatia and who did not want international protection in Austria or with us, even though they had the option. For this reason, they have also been handed over to the Austrian security authorities, and our police have consistently adhered to the criteria agreed upon, including the Schengen arrangements for humanitarian entry and surrender to the Austrian security authorities, because it was in accordance with the decision of the National Assembly and also the decision of the European Council, where it is clearly stated that persons who do not meet the conditions at the external borders must be denied entry and who did not request international protection, although they had the option. The assessment of the appropriateness of locations takes into account the security aspect, which has been said today, and which other criteria are taken into account, so I do not think there is a need for this to happen again. Migrants who are not allowed to continue to Austria shall be accommodated in a reception and accommodation centre or other reception and accommodation facilities available to the police or the Ministry until they return to the Republic of Croatia. We know what the regime is like in the Centre for Foreigners; today I explained what the regime is outside the Centre for Foreigners and what the police say about it. The police shall, in accordance with their tasks, in accordance with the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, carry out all the tasks and powers necessary to ensure security; they shall do so in the future. Of course, it will also, in accordance with its powers, carry out all procedures to prevent any conduct that may be problematic, i.e. offences and criminal offences; and also carry out all procedures to ensure that the perpetrators are detected. As far as locations are concerned – I must repeat that most locations have already been identified in the first migratory wave and these lists have not changed, even though these locations have not been activated. There is also an ongoing process of finding new, more suitable locations, but in this context we are particularly trying not to be near schools and kindergartens. We often encounter problems with these efforts because the municipalities do not propose alternative locations, so we are actually looking for all the time that would be appropriate; of course, we are also paying attention to all these risks that have been discussed today. We need alternative solutions, I agree with that. While providing replacement capacity, the existing capacity could be restructured, but I can say that there is little willingness on the part of the municipalities. If this readiness were greater, solutions could also be found that would be more acceptable, even for local communities, and could be brought closer to them in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u360	Thank you very much. As has already been said, and as already been pointed out in the introductory debate today, I think it is extremely important at this time to be patient, especially when it comes to children, when it comes to childhood, education and also when it comes to understanding multiculturalism, which is also referred to in the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, as well as other laws in this field. In this context, we have also given our first response and have been in constant dialogue with all those involved in the event. Let me stress, however, that in concern for tolerance or preparation for understanding diversity and diversity, the ministry has been working all the time with the so-called two-stage integration model, which was introduced immediately after Slovenia's independence or has a number of experience in addressing the integration of immigrants or refugees.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u362	Thank you. You are the Minister of the Interior, not for the outside; but in view of what Erjavec is doing, I am sure that you would be a better Minister for Foreign Affairs because I do not feel that you are in a pro-Russian mood. I wrote there – the return of illegal economic migrants. Let me just explain what I mean by an illegal economic migrant. They're illegal because they didn't come with documents because they didn't come on the official route; they came illegally, without papers. But the economic migrants are me because they obviously didn't come because they were running from war, which they found out by not granting them the status of international protection, but by returning them because they obviously came for some other reason. If we let them probably not come for an adventure, they probably came for economic reasons. A meaningful link seems to me – illegal economic migrants. Fat Rtik – I saw you put them on the Fat Rtik. I have noticed that this means a direct threat to three young families living on the edge of the camp and having six children between the ages of 5 and 15. To access their homes, they have to cross a camp where migrants will be, which is not exactly in line with these safety standards. I want to know: Has this been taken into account, and how will this be done? As for the Minister of Education; a 12-year-old unaccompanied child who came to the UK illegally from a French accommodation camp is, in fact, an 18- to 21-year-old Afghan who was merely a child. Before that, he attacked the father of the family he was visiting and one of the guardians; and on his phone they found the history of the visit to the jihadist sites. Similar examples are known elsewhere in Britain and Sweden. That's what I had in mind, and you didn't answer that. When you attacked those teachers that way, did you think it was appropriate — not exactly an attack, but in a slightly harsher way, you said it was inappropriate — or did you mean that these migrants might not be so old and not even young. How old were they, anyway? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u364	Thank you. As far as economic migrants are concerned, I have explained today that this is not a legal category. We can have persons who come legally into the illegal; and then they receive all those follow-up procedures carried out by the police; and applicants for international protection. In a given situation, we are talking about people who are either unsuccessfully asking for asylum or who do not want international protection, so they do not apply for asylum. International protection is neither accommodating nor subject to economic migration, because if we follow this logic, then it would not be possible to return anyone. However, the return shall be carried out and shall be carried out by the police in accordance with their powers. The rejection, as said, is not the same as the return on return under the Dublin Regulation, has already been defined by the Government and we have adopted the appropriate conclusions on the basis of which the Government's decision is that we will not adopt those who have a decision to hold back under the Dublin Regulation. [[…]] In this respect, the situation is covered, and rejection is a situation that is very current in the context; however, the police have consistently adhered to it on the basis of these criteria. Problems will be further addressed in the future by introducing a single registration form, which Macedonia is currently issuing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u366	Thank you, Vice President. Let me say it wasn't an attack. Maybe that's a very harsh word you used. It was simple to call for tolerance and, as such, we immediately communicated it, also in accordance with the legislation in force in the Slovenian space and which has already been implemented, as has been said, since the adoption of the law itself and also of all regulations further. Let me explain why it is so much more important that we cooperate very well with the IMF, the IMF and the Mišš. Simply so that we can properly identify and substantively identify, especially in children and adolescents, what are the needs. This is an extremely important professional aspect that we have – I can say for the MIZH – verified from past experience. That is why this coordination group also communicates daily and prepares appropriate rescue proposals, and I can say as many individual rescue programmes as possible. I think that this is the way in which we can, with care, expertise, especially with the good communication and the basis we already have, also ensure the safety, security of all, all children, all the adolescents involved in these processes; and especially in the primary educational institutions where any integration in the last stage of the implementation of this model is carried out. First of all, this is a facility in the center, i.e. the first assembly centre, then the so-called introductory office and then integration into the school system, where we work closely with social workers or representatives who are key here to assess and evaluate the way in which they work; therefore, the profession is crucial here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, I owe you an answer to that document case. I don't remember ever losing a document in this house. If you put him in a depository, then he'll come to all the MPs of the National Assembly. And I'm not the mailman. Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u368	Thank you for your word. I welcome all of you who have been able to meet the final question! On 6 February 2016, it was published in the Journal of Work that Elektro Ljubljana abandoned the project of the remote control 2 x 110 kilovolts of Kočevje-Crnomelj due to the demands of the inhabitants of the settlements along the route to carry out certain parts of the remote system in the form of underground cableways. In favour of such subterranean implementation on certain sections of the Civil Initiative, as a form of legal direct democracy, cites arguments such as protection against radiation in the vicinity, density of air ducts in certain areas, protection of the cultural landscape, predominant cable practices abroad, safety against acorn, lower maintenance costs and so on. The only argument of the investor Elektro Ljubljana is that such an implementation would encourage an investment of around EUR 3 million. Elektro Ljubljana is an 80 % owned company of the Republic of Slovenia. In the same article of the newspaper Delo, it was published that Elektro Ljubljana operated with a net profit of EUR 15 million in 2015. Comparing an annual net profit of EUR 15 million and an increased cost for the cable line due to the execution of certain sections of EUR 3 million, it is inevitable that the state – I stress to the state company that profit is more important than citizens. Especially since jobs in the Kanijiarica and Črnomelj industrial zone are at risk due to the insecure supply of electricity. We cannot avoid the feeling that the Director of a state-owned enterprise is putting its capital position above the citizens' arguments, which are in fact the majority owners of that company. In short, it's a form of state kidnapping. That's why I'm asking you: Will you, as a representative of the State through the competent directorate and the Slovenian state holding company, ask the management of Elektro Ljubljana to change priorities for the benefit of citizens, as 80% of the profits according to the ownership structure are state-owned, i.e. from citizens? Will you order the government, as the majority owner of the company, a redistribution of profits from 2015 to cover the costs of underground parts of the Kočevje-Montenegro? As part of your competence, will you ensure that Elektro Ljubljana reclassifies the Kočevje – Črnomelj transmission line as a priority investment in 2016? As we know, Pokolpie is a problem area, and the white landscape is an area with one of the highest unemployment rates? Thank you very much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u370	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, for the questions raised. In some ways, I count it an honor to have the opportunity to answer the final question of today. The hall is already more empty, but we'll do it as it should be. I could start this way – putting the long-distance in place our ministry as a department responsible for the implementation of the energy policy of the country proposed in 2011 with an initiative transmitted to the Ministry of Environment and Space; on the initiative of the investor, this is Elektro Ljubljana, who proposed the preparation of this State Spatial Plan for this long-distance 2 x 110 kilovolts from Kočev to Črnomlje. This far-reaching project provides for the provision of safe, quality, reliable, economic and sufficient electricity supply for the area of Bela Krajina and Dolenjska, as well as an adequate development of energy systems, which are coherent and complementary. This will also provide conditions for the economy to develop the region in an efficient and spatially balanced manner, to ensure a quality housing environment and to enable the country to develop in a coherent manner. These are all objectives pursued by placing this facility in space. The initiative we have put forward deals with the air transmission. This form of remote shock is also professionally justified in an area where the remote control approaches residential buildings. This is also based on the environmental report, which was confirmed by the Ministry of Environment in the process of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, together with all the protection resources, namely the Ministry of Culture, the Department of Nature Protection, the Ministry of Health and also the Ministry of Agriculture. According to the information available to us at the Ministry, the investor, Elektro Ljubljana, did not claim to have resigned or abandoned this placement project and later to build this remote building. At the Ministry, we also believe that, in view of the reasonableness and consistency with the objectives and orientations of sectoral energy regulations and programmes and given the importance of this far-reaching system in order to ensure the quality and reliability of the supply of the White Country and the Dolenjska region, it is reasonable and urgent to continue the process of preparing this State Spatial Plan for this long-distance pipeline. The project is also still included in the ten-year development plan of the Slovenian system operator of the distribution network, and the investor will be able to implement it in accordance with its options, in accordance with the government's decision on the selected variant of this remote. Finally, I would like to say that the Ministry of Infrastructure does not have any powers to require the management of Elektro Ljubljana in any way to spend their profits. This is the responsibility of the management authorities of this company, which is the Slovenian State Holding, which must also follow the objectives set out in the State-owned Company Management Strategy in this regard. In this regard, I cannot give any explanations or interpretations as to whether it is justified that a company with so much profit does not wish to invest in a better implementation of the cables, if I say so. I would add, however, that the possibility of performing on a cabled route has been studied, i.e. buried; however, certain technological problems have also been identified in this regard, and therefore this free-air implementation remains a better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u371	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u372	Dear Minister, I listened to you very carefully. I hope that the ten-year development plan does not provide for this to start in just ten years. You've given the initiative for air remotes, but it will be difficult to avoid civil initiatives, because this is a form of legitimate direct democracy. Even in the European Union, it is mostly already underground because of the lower maintenance costs, and we are also at risk of phlegm and so on. I don't know if you're aware of any crazy big economic damage caused by the fluctuations in electricity in the White landscape and the power outages. It is also because of this and also because of the devastatingly poor traffic connections that there is no investor who would like to invest in the White Land; unemployment is indeed enormous. In the White landscape we do not get electricity or road, but we have got something very important – the only investment in 25 years of Slovenian state is wire. This is what we got, and this wire has prevented us from having the only economic sector that has ever been, and this has been tourism. We want something else, because now we have no tourism, no economy, no infrastructure, no road connections, we dream about the tunnel; because whatever the tram or traffic accident is, they can't with their products over the Gorjanes, and the penalties at the companies are very high. I appeal to you to give some encouragement, however. This underdeveloped region is paying more and more into the state budget than it is getting back, which I think is a specialty in the world. He's hungry. I really urge you to think of the Belokrans at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u374	Thank you very much. I can assure you that we are working at the Ministry to address the area of Slovenia comprehensively from all developmental needs; we are also following these development aspects in the area of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina. I can assure you that I will be further particularly informed, given the information I have so far, that this route, which would have been buried, has been assessed as technologically problematic. This will explain to me in more detail why and how I will ask for these answers. Accordingly, I expect then, if this solution is as comparable as it is appropriate; because it is true, as you have said, that it brings certain advantages in the sense that it is not sensitive to some weather phenomena, although – we know how it affected our remotes – maintenance is cheaper, easier if we also take into account the other advantages it brings to space by not visually burdening the space, and the radiation is smaller. In short, all these things should be taken into account and studied in order to implement such a solution at this section where the matter is approaching the settlements. I'm going to ask for these answers, and I'm going to look into it in detail. I am counting on the project to take place more quickly, but not in a 10-year period such as this plan in which it is envisaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-29-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u375	Thank you very much. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I hereby interrupt the first item of the agenda and also interrupt the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
