ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Iva Dimic from 17:00 on, mag. Tanja Zink by 2 p.m., Ms. Ksenija Krenjak Kramar, Matjaž Hanžek, Mr. Andrej Chuš, mag. Matthew Tonin from 6 p.m. on, mag. Bojan Krajnc, Dr. Jasna Murgel, Dr. Franc Trček by 10.30 a.m. and Mr. Janko Weber by 2 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance Mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposed amendments and additions to the Income Act aim at restructuring the tax burdens between income from work and the income of legal persons. The proposed measures aim to strengthen the competitiveness of the business environment, affecting sustainable economic growth and increasing the global competitiveness of Slovenia and, on the other hand, not jeopardising fiscal consolidation. Changes in income are mainly directed towards the highly professional most productive debtors, who contribute significantly to the added value of businesses and to the segment of promoting remuneration for the business performance of employees in the private sector, thus providing better conditions for employment and employment in Slovenia. The additional law also includes provisions coordinating the area of taxation of the income of natural persons from basic agricultural and forestry activities with changes in flat-rate income determination brought about by the new regime for the determination of cadastral income. The main solutions in the context of tax burden restructuring are three. First of all, it is a change in the rate of income by introducing a new tax grade between the current second and third classes on a net tax base of between EUR 20 000 400 and EUR 48 000 at a rate of 34 %. At the same time, the level of income in the fourth tax class, which is more than €48 000 of income, is reduced from 41% to 39%. This reduces the progressiveity of the current income scale, which is comparatively uncompetitive, and thus represents an important step in terms of decommissioning the debtors receiving active incomes above 1.64 times the average wage. Furthermore, from the tax base of labour income, part of the salary for business performance is excluded up to 70% of the average monthly salary in Slovenia for private sector workers. However, the income threshold for eligibility for higher additional general relief also changes, increasing by 300 euros. This will relieve some 20,000 taxpayers, in particular the recipients of the minimum wage, if the recipient earns more in a given year than just a minimum wage; for example, it is an allowance for night, Sunday or holiday work. In the area of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, it is stipulated that the production of specific crops for which, after the current regime, income must be determined on the basis of bookkeeping, is included in the flat-rate taxation method. In addition, the income achieved by the small scale of the first stage of the processing of own agricultural and forestry crops into certain products is defined as income related to basic agricultural and forestry activities and the exemption of income. A small amount of processing shall be determined through the conditions for entry into the scheme in question. It also provides for a transitional period of three years for the gradual transition to higher income and indirect social security contributions. Other solutions in the bill constitute a regulation of problems that have been detected in the implementation of the law. The proposed solutions in order to reduce the burden of work will result in a reduction in the revenue of the state budget in 2017 by around €106 million and an additional €0.2 million in 2018. Notwithstanding the above, the remaining measures in the framework of the tax restructuring project replace some of these missing revenues with other resources. Dear Members and Members! The government considers it a proposal for tax restructuring, if viewed as a package, to be the first step in the right direction, but of course does not mean the end of finding possible solutions to increase the competitiveness of the economy, including in the tax burden segment and these measures will continue in the following year. However, as regards the proposed laws, I reiterate that we are assessing that this is the first important step in the right direction, and we are proposing to the National Assembly that the proposal be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members, representatives and representatives of the Government! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 64th urgent session. 9. 2016 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly is at its 70th session. 9. 2016 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Confederation of Slovenian Unions, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and a letter from the Confederation of Trade Unions. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by: the NSI Group of Christian Democrats to Articles 16 and 23, the Joint Left Group to Articles 17 and 22, the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups to each article and to one article also the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 7. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the main objectives and solutions of the proposed law and said that it was one of the laws under the tax restructuring package, one of the steps towards a more favourable tax structure, which would also have a beneficial impact on Slovenia's international competitiveness. It presented in detail the individual solutions to the bill below. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the main comment by the Legal Service was of a legal nature and further clarified the written opinion of the Service under the individual articles and where the comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled. She also answered the questions raised in the debate and added additional clarifications. In the debate, some members highlighted the course and way in which the bill and the speed of the hearing were addressed in the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. They also highlighted the issues of the impact of the bill on economic operators and highlighted the importance of the stability and transparency of the tax environment and the reduction of administrative barriers. They also asked whether the draft law was in line with the social partners, and they also raised the issue of minimum wage. The issue of the limitation of part of the salary to pay for business performance was also raised. However, some members of the Committee felt that changes were necessary and that tax restructuring was necessary to achieve better international competitiveness in Slovenia. They considered these changes to be part of the state's public financial capacity and that they were some of the burdens of the tax burden. In the course of the discussion, the representative of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber presented the opinion of the Chamber. The representative of the Government provided further clarifications and answered the question raised below. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has examined the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and adopted them, but has not adopted the amendments tabled by the NSI - Christian Democrats, the United Left and unrelated Members. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we will devote Members and Members to the debate on the so-called mini-tax reform. We are this tax package, so it is about amending the Income Act, amending the Tax Procedure Act and amending the Law on corporate income tax, looking and studying through the optics of our programme, the New Slovenia programme - Christian Democrats. We also hired the New Slovenia Economic Club, which adopted important views on this tax reform. We ourselves estimate that it is not a tax reform, that it is merely a tax translation. After two years of the reign of Dr. Mir Cerar and this coalition, we expected to experience a truly effective tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a new economic model in the country. And this new economic model, we believe, will not be without lower taxes, without less bureaucratic obstacles and without an open economy. It is high time that the Republic of Slovenia is also committed to implementing the social market model of the economy. The proposal for the new Income Act is moving on to a very important and sometimes extremely sensitive area of taxation of citizens' incomes. Christian Democrats always advocate the principle that it is better for people to remain more and therefore be able to decide for themselves how to spend their money. On the other hand, we have the possibility that, instead of them, citizens, the use of the money earned will be decided by the State. The application of this option must be as restrictive and well thought out as possible. According to our firm belief, taxes in Slovenia are too high, so in the New Slovenia Group we regret that our amendment, which proposed the implementation of a single general relief of EUR 7 000, was not adopted in the consideration of the law on the labour market. By implementing this proposal, we would increase the net revenue for all those who are committed and at the same time solve the issue of migrant workers, on which we have not found an effective and fair solution for years and years. Some of the changes brought by the novels make sense to us. This is, for example, a provision that introduces the possibility of excluding part of the remuneration for business performance from the tax base and of increasing the income threshold for eligibility for a higher general benefit for persons with the lowest income. The most important novelty brought by law is the change in the income scale. A new class is introduced between the current second and third classes at a net tax base of EUR 48 000 at a rate of 34 %. The rate in the fourth tax class is reduced from 41 % to 39 %. However, following the pressure of some coalition parties, the final grade rate remains 50%, which we regret in Novi Slovenije. The proposed change in the tax scale indicates that the government has taken action to solve the real problems. But it is not enough to diagnose, it is important and more important that we also set up therapy to set right and effective solutions. However, we note that the proposed adjustments to the income scale represent only cosmetic corrections. Moreover, the so-called mini-tax reform does not affect the lower level of the income scale, which we consider to be a weakness for Christian Democrats. When we prepared and tabled a proposal for a new Law on Social Security Contributions in New Slovenia, we proposed a ceiling of four gross minimum wages for social security contributions to employers. That's what we called a development cap. At the same time, we have also set a lower income limit from which contributions would not be paid, which we have called a social slipper. Similarly, a comprehensive approach in Nova Slovenija would be desirable from the Government. Given that the government of Mira Cerar has already ruled more than half its mandate, we could rightly expect a comprehensive intervention into the tax system, which would also interfere with the field of labour taxation. In Novi Slovenija, we will not oppose the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u7	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u8	Good-bye! We have before us a package of tax legislation; a package that the Minister is now talking about is restructuring and no longer a mini-tax reform. In the beginning, I need to say a few words about the adoption process itself. The government of Mira Cerar has been running the country for two years, not since yesterday, so we would rightly expect such a tax package of three laws to be adopted according to normal procedure, so that all stakeholders involved can express their views and not necessarily on a horrage. Second thing. So easy to overwhelm the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, swing it with your hand, I don't think it's the most appropriate. The law we are talking about refers to a law that is not even established yet. I don't know how this works. I think that for the package that we have on the table, it is far from a good trip and also for the Minister, I think it is not good that the first thing she advocates in the National Assembly as Minister is this tax package, especially because of the way. We have before us the Income Act, the Tax Procedure Act and the corporate income tax. In order to make your restructuring comprehensive, it is necessary to add the VAT increase that you already carried out some year ago. According to our assessment, we should be more bold in our changes. With what we have ahead of us, there will be no new jobs, no development. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, according to our assessment, are burdened more than they are to date, of course with corporate income tax, which is bad. We will vote in our parliamentary group as stipulated in the Constitution, that is everyone's conscience, but I can say that we will be Members of the Alliance no matter what, including the criticisms I have just said, the Income Act. Why? Since we are confident that the changes are going in the right direction, it is a relief, but we still estimate that you are not bold enough to make these changes. We'd like more optimism. Especially in people who earn the least. Changes happen in real classes, incomes, but those who earn the least would deserve more attention from the government. We're two years behind schedule, and apparently that's the way it's gonna be with the next two. That's too bad. With a billion euros, a billion euros that you have more than we have in the national budget, we should do significantly more; more for young people to stay at home, and more for older people to have a safe age. With what we have on the table, there will be no new jobs, no development and no better future. Once again, I would like more money in the state budget to be able to make better use of this and better use of Slovenia and to ensure that citizens have stable economic growth, with new jobs, development and, above all, a better future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u9	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. The proposed amendments to the Income Act are part of the tax restructuring package between labour income and the income of legal persons in order to reduce the burden of income from work and increase the burden on corporate income taxes. In this way, the government will in particular increase the competitiveness of the economy, as it will relieve the work that is above average taxed and burden the capital that is under average taxed. With regard to the proposals in the Income Act, it should be noted that by raising additional general relief, by increasing the income threshold for an additional general benefit of EUR 300, the reduction in the tax liability of some 19 000 738 debtors eligible for additional general relief will be a reduction. In revenue of €11,000 at annual level, the debtors will be burdened by around €335 or around €28 per month. These changes are only due to the change in the definition of minimum wage and thus exemption from allowances. Individual recipients of the minimum wage, of course, if they receive a higher wage than the minimum wage due to the receipt of those allowances, may lose the right to a higher allowance, which is reflected in a substantially lower net salary received than before the amendment of the law governing the minimum wage. The change in the additional general relief segment is therefore aimed at preventing such cases in the recipients of the minimum wage. The proposed change in the income scale will increase the net income of the debtors over 1.6 times the average wage, which will relieve the most productive class of the debtors. With regard to the impact on consumption, it can be expected that this will have a lower impact, otherwise labour costs will remain the same and the tax burden on work will be reduced. The business environment in the field of labour taxation in Slovenia will also be more favourable. In addition, it will be a more tax-friendly solution to exempt part of the salary for business performance from the tax base of income from the employment ratio of up to 70% of the average monthly salary in Slovenia. This will indirectly reduce employers' costs on the one hand, increase net earnings on the other hand for employees, and this will have a positive impact on economic growth. The aim of the change in income from basic agricultural and forestry activities is to harmonise with the new method of identification of cadastral income, which extends the flat-rate assessment of agricultural and forestry income even further to the production of certain crops. With regard to the solutions to the Income Act, it should be pointed out that, in order to mitigate the transition to a new catastronomic income system, the law governing cadastral income already regulates the transition stage, taking into account only 40% of the calculated flat-rate income in 2017, 55% in 2018 and 75% of the new amount in 2019. In addition, this law also regulates a three-year transitional period in which a farmer’s household will not be able to demonstrate a flat-rate estimated income of more than twice the amount of the previous year. However, the law also allows taxable persons who receive income from a working relationship abroad from the employer to apply a reduction of the tax base for the cost of food between work and transport to and from work, with these costs being recognised in view of the actual presence at work and in accordance with the government regulation. Because the law will allow the most productive employees to be unloaded and allow a more attractive business environment for their employment, the SMC Group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u11	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleague, colleague! At today's meeting of the National Assembly, we are discussing three laws that the Blue Centre Party and the Coalition have called the so-called mini-tax reform. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expected significantly more tax reforms from the so-called name. When we take a closer look at the package of three laws, we can quickly see that it is actually a matter of moving money from one bag to another and that there will be no real positive effect of these three laws. If we define ourselves with regard to the amendment of the Income Act, we can see that there are minimal changes and, in view of the late statements made by the Prime Minister of the Government and the Ministry of Finance regarding economic growth in Slovenia, we expected much more. We were convinced that the Party of the Modern Centre – and the Coalition – would have much more courage in the so-called mini reform than it had chosen, because in fact it was only a handful of people to change the income scale. However, we are clearly surprised by the statements made by both the President of the Government and now in the position of the Group of Members that this is actually a positive part, the most productive part of the employees. Respected and respected! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the productivity of the employees is at the same level as the cleaner to the director. There is no doubt that we cannot agree that you categorize employees by productivity, because we are convinced that productivity must be taken care of by the entire employee system. Again, we can witness that the Modern Centre Party has a first- and second-class class in Slovenia, and this is certainly not good. We are confident that the proposal to amend the income scale will not affect the opening of new jobs, will not affect higher productivity and will not affect higher economic growth. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the burdens of work are too high, that tax burdens are too high. Last but not least, a well-respected coalition, this change in the income scale will not affect migrant workers either. We will still have too much tax burden in Slovenia and migrant workers will still have to pay extra income in Slovenia due to higher taxes. The Chamber of Commerce is also disappointed by the proposed law. Just changing the income scale for a handful of employees does not mean what is presented to the public. However, we have decided in the SDS, because this only means, I would say, one part of the improvements to a certain segment of employees, that we will support this amendment of the Income Act, but we expect from the coalition and the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister that they have two more years to mandate and that they are trying to make the tax environment more favourable for all employees in Slovenia in these two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u13	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! The so-called mini-tax reforms that have been announced have been raising quite a bit of dust for some time. Amendments which in any way interfere with the existing rights and obligations of taxpayers in any way whatsoever, of course, in all the expected sense, give rise to criticism, opposition, shared opinions. Similar dissatisfaction also occurs in the case of positive solutions, for example, we extend certain tax advantages because of the fact that, of course, every debtor wants as much financial savings as possible. From the very beginning in Desus, we are aware that the Government had no easy work; on the contrary, what a difficult task it had in drafting a proposal for this law, namely the Income Law. This should cover the widest possible range of stakeholders in terms of exemption from tax duties on income. No matter how good a bill could be drawn up, it would not be possible to meet the needs, wishes, appetites of all the debtors. And despite the opposition, it is a fact that the proposal for a novel, which we are currently considering, is this law, will certainly not and cannot harm. It is not ideal, once again, but, of course, the proposal is a step away from the current regime that we all criticize. With the new income scale, we will unload an additional rather nice number of pledges and allow Slovenia to get closer to creating a knowledge society and further strengthening the so-called development staff. Developmental orientation, colleagues and colleagues will also be affected by the tax burden on Christmas tax, and we welcome the fact that this right of workers will also be given its legal regime. We agree with this in our parliamentary group, but we stress that we will not stop here, we will move on. The next round of decommissioning will have to do more to relieve the average population and, in particular, people with lower incomes. In short, we insist and always insist on redefining lower income classes. In the same breath, we welcome the continuation of the fourth or the new, since the new class is added, the fifth income class, which will continue to be subject to a 50% tax rate. Let me remind you all that last year's novelty was, on request, the Desus Group's request, extended validity of the highest rate of income and is now definitively maintained. With regard to people with lower incomes, where we are particularly vulnerable, we think mainly of the beneficiaries of minimum wages, and we are extremely pleased in Desus or our group of Members, because a large number or all of these pledges will have the right to an additional general benefit by increasing the eligibility threshold to EUR 300. The new law focuses not only on one segment but also on a series of other advantages. Let me also mention the change in agricultural and forestry activities – such as the establishment of so-called exemptions to tax obligations in the small scale of the first processing – and the recognition of transport costs to work and lunches for cross-border migrant workers who will no longer be counted as tax bases. In short, let me finish and recap. The new law introduces measures to reduce the tax burden on labour income created within the framework of the permitted public finances – of course, restrictions – policies and we will support them in the Desus Group, as already announced. At the same time, we will be watching that changes in the future will also go in the right direction; the direction of relief and greater benefits for individuals, especially those with lower incomes. In this regard, we will also have in mind the sustainability of public finances as a basis for assisting the unemployed or social assistance to the needy target groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u15	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Thus, the most important of the laws of the so-called tax restructuring package, or the so-called “ministerial” tax reforms, the Income Act, are ahead of us. The proposed law is a product of relatively long coordination and represents the first step towards a more equitable tax system. While this is relatively highly distorted for us, it represents, on the one hand, highly progressively taxed labour and knowledge incomes, which are further burdened by social security contributions, while at the same time strongly avoiding the internationally comparable burden of assets and capital. That is why today's step, albeit small, is one of the major shifts in the right direction and the proper balance of the Slovenian tax system. Social Democrats are therefore in favour of these legislative changes, for four key reasons. First of all, because these changes will for the first time in Slovenia introduce a more tax-friendly treatment of collective awards of employees for business success. The solution to this disposable income, after the domestic 13th salary or Christmas pay, is to exempt up to 70% of the average wage, i.e. that companies and employees will also be offered financial benefits and thus motivation if they decide to reward their co-workers for collective success. It allows sufficient flexibility within the mechanism for a different segment of enterprises, while being restrictive enough to prevent tax relief from the title of the 13th salary from spilling from regular wages and thus form a kind of tax oasis. Secondly, we support change because it relieves income from work and knowledge where, compared to other countries, the highest burden is on taxes. The current income scale is extremely progressive and the shift to 41% taxation occurs very quickly in us. That is why we have advocated the introduction of a new income class by the Social Democrats, and we welcome the proposal that this solution should also be introduced. The latter means a step forward to prevent or at least prevent the outflow of more ambitious across our country's borders into a more tax-friendly environment and encourage businesses to maintain and develop high value-added jobs, as well as all others, of course, in Slovenia. Third time. We also support the law because it raises general tax relief and special relief for less paid jobs, and thus, through its actions, also takes care of those whose income is lowest, which, of course, contributes significantly to the consolidation of the country of prosperity and the inherent system of solidarity in our country. Fourth time. We also support the law because it preserves the highest, i.e. a 50% tax rate for those whose incomes are the highest, for which we have been in coalitions, for one more, the other less, and finally, importantly, we have made a successful effort and found our place in this law. We are aware that many of this reform would want significantly more, which is understandable, as it is understandable that everyone would want much from the country for as little or no paid tax as possible. This is not possible in today's society, which wants to build its competitiveness and effectiveness on quality, solidarity and the state of prosperity. In the future, however, it is possible to show a little more ambition, which we believe will be the motivation and energy of the new Minister with the team, and we believe that further changes in the direction of even more effective tax legislation can be looked forward to the future. The proposed amendments to the Income Act will be supported by the Social Democrats. As has already been said, we want more courage for further steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! We will not support this anti-social tax reform in the United Left, but the reason is simple. The coalition will now, at the time of saving this measure, provide a poor 10 per cent of the best paid in this country with a tax gift of EUR 60 million. This will not reduce the cost of work in the country for a cent, the only effect will be that directors with 10,000 euros of gross wages will receive an additional EUR 2 000 400 in the next year at the annual level. The budget will therefore be cut by €60 million, which will, of course, result in some more BMWs being run along our roads, but the money for the reconstruction of these roads will be reduced. If we make a fiscal balance of Cerara's government, we see that it works consistently in the interest of 10 percent of the privileged. If we just look at some numbers. Last year, 10 percent of the best-paid income scales won 20 million euros. This year they will earn another €60 million, says the government has given them a total of €100 million tax gift over the last two years. On the other hand, what did the government do for 10 percent of the poorest? The coalition says you increased aid to the poorest by 10 euros, from 278 to 288 euros a month. This means that some 70,000 recipients of different types of social assistance have gained only EUR 10 million per year. So within two years, 20 million euros will be received from this title. If we put this on the scale now: 10 per cent of the best paid has won 100 million euros and 10 per cent of the poorest 20 million euros. So your government's actions are 1:5 in favour of the rich. This is redistribution, the tax redistribution of this government and we will oppose it in the United Left as long as we can. In the United Left, we do not fall for the neoliberal ideology of the lean state and low taxes. Both the coalition and the right opposition are completely caught up in this ideology, so it is not surprising, even though it should be that even the parties declaring themselves social, such as SD and Desus, have not resisted the fact that the 10 per cent of the best-paid gifts of €56 million of public, i.e. total resources, budgetary resources, and the parties are literally arguing with each other who will further underpin this tax gift with the excuses that this will contribute to the well-being of all. But look, such tax gifts and such policies do not contribute to development. If this were the case, Latin America would be a paradise on earth, where such policies began to be introduced 50 years ago. And if that were the case, the Bulgarians, Lithuanians and Latvians would have an influx of immigration into their countries, and so these are the countries from which people literally flee. In the last 15, 20 years, quite a third of the population has moved out of Latvia, and the reason for this is that governments have consistently introduced anti-social policies such as those before us today. In the last ten years, Slovenian governments have similarly significantly reduced the taxation of high incomes. In 2006 and 2012, the income scale was changed, with 2009 the tax on paid salaries was abolished, which was solidarity, but nevertheless the rate of eviction is the highest in our modern history. In 2000, when we had, historically, the highest wage and capital taxes, 1.8 inhabitants per thousand in Slovenia moved abroad, this year this number is 7.2; it is four times higher. Why did they move out? I assure you, not because of the high taxation of the highest wages, but because of the general impoverishment of the country. This law, which is ahead of us, will make the budget of the rich poor poor for an additional €60 million a year, so of course we will vote against it in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, again. I will now briefly explain why we are proposing this amendment. Our amendment would – just to read it, in the last sentence of the first paragraph, the point is replaced by a comma and add the text, which reads "and the provisions of Articles 17 and 22 which begin to apply for the tax year shall begin on 1 January 2019". Thus, we would postpone the effects of this law in January 2019 in order to gain two years of time to prepare a better tax scale, a socially fair tax scale, one that will not explicitly favour the rich, and, on the other hand, to the poorest who need this money, toss only a few crumbs. As I said before, the effects of the tax reforms of the Cerara government so far, somehow the balance sheet, overall, is 100 million money for 10 percent of the best paid, 20 million for 10 percent of the poorest. It says, 5:1 in favour of the rich. In our opinion, it should be the other way around. In fact, it seems unacceptable to us that at a time of saving, at a time when we have 70,000 people on social support, instead of trying to help those who live with 280 euros a month, which is virtually unimaginable that someone can survive with that sum in this country, we prefer to think about how we will best pay, 10% of the best paid, give tax gifts. In the United Left, we insist that we first need to help the needy and first try to help those who have the least. The government says that this will happen in some way in this law, because if the richest have the most, the economy will work better and the effects will spill down the social hierarchy, but unfortunately it does not. Indeed, with this tax reform, the change in the company's income scale will not even raise the euro for investments. The only effect of this will be that they will be rich, because the gross wages will remain the same, it is said, only the rich will get a tax gift at the expense of the budget, but that will not result in more money for investments, as companies will still pay the same gross wages as they are now paying. The second thing to be pointed out is that these 10 percent of the best-paid people we give them these 60 million will not spend this money on consumption in Slovenia, but they are most likely to buy some foreign securities or spend money on luxury consumption, which usually means buying imported goods, such as luxury cars or something like that, and also in this sense, in terms of promoting consumption, this will not contribute to economic growth. If, on the other hand, this money were to be given to the poorest who have the highest degree of propensity for consumption because they have the cheapest wallets, it would make a significant contribution to strengthening consumption in Slovenia, while such a measure as we now have will primarily encourage the purchase of foreign goods and foreign luxury goods and foreign securities. Thus, economic growth will not come from this either. This is shown by the end of the day also by foreign practices. If we look at which countries in Europe are most or least taxed, we see that the most heavily taxed Scandinavian countries, Belgium, Germany, and so on, while on the other hand we have the most favourable tax-dump experiments, especially in the European East, the Baltic countries, Bulgaria, are predestined to do so, but in Bulgaria, where they have the most favourable tax environment in Europe for ten years, they have not encouraged economic growth in this account, but they have only encouraged the further impoverishment of the population there, the brain drain and the practical development stagnation or even the setback of that country. Thus, even in a developmental sense, these policies are meaningless and we do not really understand why the Government is doing this and where it is taking such measures. In short, in the United Left because of these matters, we oppose and propose that its implementation be postponed in January 2019, that we gain two years of time, not by the urgency of the process as it was now, but within a normal period of two years we seriously discuss what would be best for the development and well-being of this country, and that we create such a tax reform that would meet these two criteria, but not that we accept overnight some tax gifts for the rich, which obviously, if we just look at foreign practices, will have no positive effect, except that the directors of the ten thousand-euro administrations will have some more money to pay in the account.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u21	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In fact, we see no reason in the Modern Centre Party to delay the implementation of the Income Act, since the purpose of the law is to relieve the most successful personnel, the purpose of the law is also to increase the threshold of general relief and thus the lowest class gets it. In addition, we believe that when we begin implementing this law and the fact that employment is increasing, in fact the need for social transfers will be reduced in some way. It is therefore fitting that the law enters into force with 1. 1. 2017 and the amendment to Article 23 opposes this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u23	The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me begin by defining myself before the amendment. With the proposed amendment, the implementation of the new rate scale is delayed in 2019 and thus destroys the objective set by the Government with the proposed law, which is why we cannot support the proposed amendment. However, I would like to reinforce the solutions listed in this Article with some concrete information. Today we have heard the claim that taxes in Slovenia are too high. The total tax burden in recent years has fallen from 37.5% of GDP to 37%. When the final figures for 2015 are known, I am sure that this number will fall even lower. The average burden in Europe or in the OECD countries to which we like to compare ourselves is much higher. Therefore, it is not an issue that the general tax burden in Slovenia is too high. However, the issue is that the structure of taxes in Slovenia is not favourable. And the bill before us is trying to correct this uncompetitive or unfavourable structure of tax burden. In all official positions, the Government has always stressed that we are talking about restructuring, even in the 2015-2016 social agreement, we have recorded tax restructuring together with the social partners. Although some social partners have then withdrawn from the social agreement, we are still convinced that this is the right way, because our first task is to ensure a stable public financial environment for the economy and people, and in this context we are also improving competitiveness. It is certainly possible to agree with Mr Mesec that the proposed tax solutions in themselves and in isolation will not increase the number of employees in Slovenia, but are an important element of the environment in which more people can find employment. And let us ask ourselves what jobs we want to create in Slovenia. The current structure of taxpayers shows that there is a marked income equality between people achieving active income. 58 per cent and a half of all taxpayers for income are classified in the first tax grade, another 32.8 per cent in the second tax class, i.e. total 91 per cent of all taxpayers belong in the first two income classes or in the first two tax classes. These debtors pay about half of the income, the remaining poor 9% and 8.75% of the debtors pay the poor 50 % of the income. Let's take a look at it a little bit more. In Slovenia, people with a salary of up to 1.6 times the average wage are strongly dominated. We have 90.4% of these people. Tax policy must ensure that the conditions for creating higher value added jobs are created and that the average wage in this country can also be increased. As a result, the Government cannot support the general burden, but it can support the incentive to create higher value-added jobs in Slovenia, and this proposal brings the law. On the other hand, when we talk about providing care for the most vulnerable groups, we must not forget that we are talking about tax today, we are talking about the revenue side of the budget, how much we take from people to provide resources for common or general needs. On the other hand, it is important to look at how much of the State budget expenditure is actually spent on these most vulnerable groups. A billion 200 are social transfers, a billion 300 transfers to the pension fund, which ensures payment of normal or adequate pensions. In addition, additional millions are provided in the school area for other transfers, in the infrastructure sector, for subsidies for transport to school or to primary or secondary schools. So when we talk about caring for the most vulnerable groups, we need to look not only at income but above all at the expenditure side. As we look at the customer’s income, we see how appropriate it is, given the economic power, that an individual contributes to these general needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First, I would like to say a few words about all the three laws that we are considering today, including the Income Act, which we are also talking about today and which we also have an amendment. What the State or this government, with the Income Act, will in some way give to citizens and citizens will, in another way, take away when it taxes more, increase the rate of corporate income tax. This is, of course, the fact that it will now be a more competitive society and so on, everything is still in the air, which is why there is also additional employment, stimulating additional employment in the air. It's not proven, it's simply not proven because it can't be proven. We agree, however, that not only will tax legislation be the one that will increase competitiveness, there will be a lot of other things here, but there will probably be another time in this regard. What worries most about this Income Act is, in my mind, that it is even a question of whether this law is in accordance with Slovenian law. We have very quickly put forward in these explanations the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which mentions that this law refers to a law that does not actually exist. We are of course talking about the fact that the Income Act refers in the field of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, to the law that is under the referendum legislation, which is being signed. The legislative and legal service here says that this means that the proposal of the Income Law and, consequently, the law itself refers to a law that is not yet in existence. This shall apply irrespective of the follow-up to the referendum request. The reference of legal provisions to another law that has not entered into force constitutes an unacceptable prejudication, regardless of whether a proposal for a law will be considered as a law that will apply later, perhaps at the moment in line with the Cadastrian Income Law. Look, this is a legal matter. This is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Government of Mir Cerar simply walks through it. Of course, this means a certain pre-judgment of referendum decisions, and that means how many the government of Mira Cerar, and if Members and Members support this law, and you too, to the opinion of the people. Regardless of the opinion of anyone on the referendum, the referendum is a constitutional category, a referendum is a matter to be respected. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, members of the coalition went through this, through this constitutional provision, through this opinion, and of course you are not interested. You can make excuses for anything, but the Income Act refers to a law that does not exist. What legal practice do we actually introduce in the National Assembly? Look, it's very bad. We're actually instituting a legal anarchy. The next time someone comes, he'll say, because it's happened already, I don't know when, it's happened in the past, it's parliamentary practice and so on. Very bad. Very bad for the country, I think it is even very bad and shameful for the National Assembly to simply go through one law and in fact this law is totally unfair. The second story, if I speak substantively, is that this cosmetics of tax laws will not bring much – what it will give on the one hand will it take on the other. Because it won't bring much, I would expect the National Assembly to make some appeal to the government to do something here, not just in this area, but in some other area. For this economic growth, which is often discussed, is on average much smaller than economic growth in other countries, when we are talking about the European Union, in comparable countries. Slovenia has been much closer to the European Union's average of development than it is today. As a result, I would expect some additional measures and some additional impetus in this regard. It's nice, I'll say, to give everyone a little bit and so on – it's not going to work. I also do not agree that the effects will be as stated by my fellow moon, that now all money will be spent abroad and so on, up and down. This, of course, also fits in the National Assembly to mention the BMW and these things a little bit, but anyway, the effects will be that people will get due to the nature of the income, where we have the rates we have, we do not have a uniform tax rate, but we have progress here so that the differences are then different. On the basis of this, employers will be able to pay the same gross — with less gross — and I apologize — the same net. It's just a deal with employees, with workers, collective agreements and so on. Here this mathematics exists, it always existed, but it's a matter of social partners. So no one's going to have much of it, every bit, some bits, but all of it I think will be forgotten very quickly, and probably in six months or one year, we'll be asking again about the same thing. Once again, this law, reminds us of this Law-Legal Service, is illegal and may also be unconstitutional from this point of view. This is what matters most, and it is that in this national assembly, if you want to, we simply do not respond to the constitutional matter that we are dealing with here, or that you do not answer because you are in fact in favour of such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! This law is discussed in the grave in two ways; on the one hand, with the expectation that it is possible to increase taxes, burdens and then share this as if the tax revenues were created by the stroke of the wizard's wand, on the other hand, with the expectation that, in total tax burden, we would create an ideal environment where people would have income surpluses themselves and invest freely, create growth, and forget that there is also a need to ensure that any development and growth at all, that is education, health, solidarity, prosperity and so on. Both extremes, in their own logic, make no sense and I hope to argue that, even out of pure ideological malice, they create a conflict between work and capital, instead of trying, as the government does with this bill, to go beyond and create a balance between one and the other that will allow, not in one step completely to alter and enable and radically to change, but in the process and coincident with some other measures, allowing for some balance, which is one of the key objectives of increasing productivity and the related productivity increase in incomes, raising consumption and, above all, finding a way to stimulate those who want to create and who today create the most, regardless of where the income scales are located. That is why this law, however, introduces some of the key solutions that we have discussed over the years. One of the most important solutions in this regard is the issue of the 13th payload, the Christmas tree or whatever we want to name it. We have often met and, for example, at meetings of craftsmen at the Chamber of Commerce and elsewhere, with the question of why the state does not allow us to reward our employees with dignity, why the state does not allow us and is overly burdening us when we want to motivate employees to increase productivity through the financial reward in the form of 13, we can also pay 14. This is happening and we can rightly believe that the result will be that people for collective success in the company will be rewarded and that a greater share of this reward will now not be collected by the State, but that the net amount will actually reach the employee – not only about workers, but about employees, because they create all the employees – will probably mean a significant shift in the atmosphere in businesses and will also allow in some way shifts in the logic of economists, craftsmen in relation to the way in which they deliver higher productivity, while at the same time allowing the employees themselves to have a substantially different perception of their job and their responsibility to the created, as the results will also bring financial incentives. Of course, an excellent addition to this would still be an updated law on the sharing of profits among employees, but this probably falls within the category of courageous steps that await us, as I mentioned in the introduction. Furthermore, of course, some income outages will also have to be replaced in the budget. It is obvious that we are burdening the economy substantially with this 2% increase in corporate income tax. We are here on a European scale almost a tax oasis; we are one of those who had this lowest. There is no particular reason why there should not be a balance here and that each party would not contribute to something, especially since this law is clearly looking for ways to increase productivity, which will mean – assuming that it will increase, that consumption will also increase – and ultimately higher incomes of the economy and trades. And that goes hand in hand. What is most important in the core in some way is that the progressive income scale goes on to say, fragment and achieve its greater justice through the additional classes. The more classes we have, the more the burden on those who pay the income, the more just. And there would not have been a sense of what was heard several times in the National Assembly, on the street and elsewhere, that we would impose all the burdens of crisis on employees, on workers, on those who, in the eyes of many, especially managers, bankers, and also on those who also reach the highest wages and consequently the highest income classes in terms of burden, have left in peace, there is also a 50% income class for those who, more, some less justified wage levels that they reach, also deserve. But in the core of such laws we follow one very simple logic, and that is to answer the question of how can we create more, that we can earn more, that we can pay the net more, that we will motivate people more, that we will receive the works of what they create, and that as a result we will have an effective tax system in which money will also come. Because we can, of course, follow the logic of some who now say that taxes need to be raised and we can invest in health care. If we put this up indefinitely – because the logic of things says there will be less tax collection. If we let them down to the end, the logic of things tells us that we will crush the welfare state, that we will no longer have the opportunity to create a level playing field for everyone's success, that we will no longer be able to bet on quality, that we will have to look for competitiveness in price advantages and that will be in the long term bad for the country. This model of overcoming and one and the other ideas by seeking a balance between the two is the only meaningful story in the long run, although with one smaller step here the government is going in the right direction with this proposal. But absolutely what Comrade Shircelj was talking about is something that we have to worry about, something that we still have to answer here; it is simply a matter of hearing the fact that the existing law is referring to a law that we cannot fully claim to exist because of referendum law. Above all, it would be bad to conclude, if we agreed in this country that this law is judged through optics, either radically left-wing or radically neoliberal logic, for which it would in any case be bad, but neither do they understand that the creation of equal opportunities and productivity go hand in hand, that they must be balanced and that they must act effectively. Those who understand this will support the marriage, and those who feel that like Ostrzek will grow money on a tree if we plant it in the ground will collect money in the same place as Ostrzek — nowhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! It is true that when we read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the amendment of the Income Act and had a discussion on this, a thorough discussion on the working body, I must say that I have become appalled. I can say that this novel of the Income Act is actually a contribution, an unfair contribution to the illegal state. We are fighting for the rule of law all the time, and we are trying and repeating what I have already said several times, because, of course, today we are also talking about the economic sector, when Members of Parliament gathered at the end of 2012, the government at Brdo pri Kranj, with the top of the Slovenian economy, there were about 500 directors present, and we were faced with four key policy demands. First of all, it was a request called the rule of law. It's a state of law. I expected, and so did my colleagues and colleagues in the Group of Members, that it would be precisely this government outfit, that this coalition would actually take important steps towards the rule of law. Unfortunately, it is precisely this novel of the Income Act that we are moving away from the rule of law. This was discussed in detail by a fellow Shirtzelj. When I talk to representatives of foreign countries, then, of course, the word about economic cooperation, of course, also political cooperation, and when we talk about economic cooperation and our wishes, however, that the Member States, in particular the European Union and other countries in Slovenia, invest more, we talk about the conditions, the business environment. And I tell you, everyone has comments on our tax instability. We have a very unstable tax system. Virtually every six months we amend some tax legislation; either one or the other, or the third law. Look, we now have a so-called mini-tax reform, which is not, because if it were a reform, then we would treat it on a regular basis, not necessarily, and the government and the coalition are already predicting the next steps. What they'll be like, probably nobody knows today. It is also important for the investor to have a stable tax environment in the country where he invests, so that the investor can calculate fairly precisely when his investment will be reimbursed. Now we have a good climate, at least as far as economic growth is concerned. In this climate, in this positive climate, economic growth is around 2.7%, in fact we should take real reform measures, we should really make a radical improvement in the business environment so that our young experts do not blackmail us. It's kind of the most painful thing for young people to leave us. When we give them education here, relatively well, and these graduates are literally yearned for Europe, America and, of course, other countries. I'm not talking to you. I'm talking to numbers. The first quarter of this year, look at the republican statistics, points again to an extremely negative migration balance. 205 people moved more than they moved to Slovenia. Unfortunately, in this structure of people who have moved is the vast majority of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I also add a negative natural increase minus 612 for the first quarter of this year, which of course indicates some bad atmosphere, some bad climate. In general, they point to some state of the spirit in this country. I wonder how many more jobs we will have as a result of this change in the income scale and in general due to the amendment of the Income Act. Of course, that's not what the government's predicting. I know it's hard to predict. However, the fact is that due to the good economic climate, due to more employees, due to economic growth, last but not least, we have a very good income realization compared to the adopted budget for 2016. If we look at the report on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the first half of this year, we find that the income has been realised 60.9%. We collected 10 million more income than in the same period last year, 10 million. 60.8% of implementation in relation to the approved budget, which is €977.5 million, is a good result. Of course, we know that the first summer is not the same as the second summer, but if we know that, and if we know that exactly, then we should also display this data as a weighted one. In the position of the New Slovenia Group, I said that this is not a tax reform, that this is not an improvement in the business environment, that it is more or less tax translation. On the one hand, we will lose 106 million in the state budget because of this change in the Income Act and then the government actually says fairly that this hole has to be patched up somewhere and says, yes, we will take the economy, which is paying relatively little anyway – these are the words of the government representatives. And we raise the corporate income tax rate by 2% and we take 60% from the economy there. Last year we took about 40 million with the introduction of tax registers, because it was necessary to obtain hardware and software. The government itself said in the Law on tax clearance of accounts that the economy or the debtors would have to deduct around €40 million for this equipment, mechanically and programmely. So there are always new and new burdens on the economic sector. I got my mandate from my constituents, it wouldn't be moral today to vehemently support this tax package, it wouldn't be responsible, it wouldn't be moral. It wouldn't be responsible for my constituents who sent me to the National Assembly. No one in the field actually supports this tax package; the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has responded very strongly, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia has responded very strongly, and the fact is that the economic sector unfortunately does not have as strong an interlocutors with the government as the trade union, especially the public sector union. In order to understand that I will not be misunderstood, the public sector and the real sector, the economy, of course, must work hand in hand, but it is not fair for one to give in, say, a thousand euros more at the annual level, the other to the real sector, but maybe only 150 euros. This is not fair, this is not moral, because tax legislation must also contain elements of ethics. As I said, in New Slovenia we have assessed this tax package through the optics of our political programme, the New Slovenia political programme, because we firmly believe that the real model, the real economic model of the social market model of the economy, is verified in Europe and in those countries where it is consistently implemented, people live in prosperity or our people have an interest in going and living and working in these countries. On the other hand, little, almost nothing, is happening at the removal of bureaucratic barriers. Who else will invest in Slovenia if there is no remote control if you need a building permit for a production hall for maybe a few years? And the third issue, the open economy – ladies and gentlemen, we are still almost hermetically closed, as far as foreign investors are concerned. Take a look at how our privatisation procedures are running or falling! Until we graduate from the privatisation process, until then we will be dealing with corruption, we say, more privatisation is less corruption. As regards the amendment of the colleagues of the United Left, we have examined it and we do not see any added value, so we will not support it, nor will we support the amendment of the Income Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. It is interesting to listen to the discussions of the entire political class, especially from the right, where they do not separate between the economy and capital. Of course, if a politician honestly tells his mantra that the economic burden really means capital relief, no one will support it, not even small people, the working classes to which they are usually right-wing, politics refers. The tax reform ahead of us is a tax reform for the Bulgarian development model. It's a super-hikov tax reform. This reform generates 7.4% of the best paid 56 million euros a heavy tax gift and raises the threshold of general relief to 20,000 beneficiaries will only bring EUR 5 million. So those who have the most will get 56 million euros, those who have the least will get 5 million euros. For all of this tax rolling, there is an additional hole in our budget; a hole in which our social services suffer, due to the argument that our social assistance is less than 300 euros and cannot be maintained. We are turning a hole in the budget to give to the rich and at the same time these same people who are doing this, the ruling part of the political class, say that there is no money in our budget for the public construction of the second track. Imagine that. Oh, no, we don't have the money, our budget is too small, no, let's give the rich 50 million euros. That's what's going on! That is why I am saying that we are dealing with a super-hikov tax reform. If I walk through some of the government's and coalition's arguments, I'm going to start with the funniest thing about how this tax reform is going to lead to a rise in productivity. Please enlighten me on how giving the rich tens of millions of euros leads to an increase in productivity. How? In what way? Some answer to the first ball here could be written in the style of Trickledown economics; yes to those who have the most, we will give a little more, and this wealth will somehow magically penetrate through all of society's losses and will eventually have the poorest and working classes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Members, this is an empty ideology that has no stigma in reality. If you want, I can formulate it differently. The financial, economic crisis that we have survived or are still surviving – at least in its social dimension – is not the end of the crisis for the poor and working classes, and with this reform you are declaring that the end of the crisis is certainly for the rich – this economic crisis is the crisis of the ideology of Trickledown economics. Has the Slovenian political class learned anything from this crisis? Nothing! The reasons for the crisis are, in fact, exacerbated by this tax reform, as does inequality. The argument of increasing productivity is in no point at all and is a mere floscule which attempts to push this highly criminal tax reform through the National Assembly. Next, this reform is supposed to relieve the most good, which is a brotherly argument that this reform raises productivity. It is not true, this reform relieves the richest, 7.4% of the most paid people in Slovenian society, not the most profitable. In this way, to shift the political class to equal productivity and diligence with salary levels, their snobbery and elitism are very clear. This relief, the most well - off, and in fact the best - paid, does not serve any developmental purpose at all. What kind of bread will come from this flour — not just those who already have it — will have more and more. This is the only profit of this reform, which is after all the only, that is the only, that is, the purely silent purpose of this reform: to redistribute the social wealth from the working classes, from the poor to the most privileged – 7.4% of the Slovenian population. The minister spoke of high added value and how these lower taxes for the rich magically testify to high added value. Yeah, who's that reform really tanning? He's thrashing engineers? No! No! It's about management, it's about politics, it's about bankers. Look, these are the social classes that they're getting through this tax reform. If you are consistent in the argument of high added value and productivity, I challenge you to stand up, tell all the people, our fellow citizens, that politicians create added value. Politicians raise added value with their work, managers are the ones who create added value. Say it honestly because it's behind your words, that's the only argument behind those words. Only if you say it directly and honestly, will people cheer you up and they'll go completely insane because that's not true, it's pure ideology without support in reality. However, the Minister said very well that taxes in Slovenia are not too high, only that their structure is not favourable. That is true, but this is an argument for a fair tax reform that we are advocating in the United Left, not for the super-hikov tax reform that we have on the table today. This is simply going in the wrong direction. We want to restructure taxes, okay, let's start by lowering the value added tax, and further increase the corporate income tax, step up the income ladder, which is actually the only truly fair tax, include in the income base even more income, capital income and so on, not only labour income, but we will already get closer to the declared objective of fair tax restructuring. But, as a matter of fact, that's something we advocate in the United Left. The government's tax reform is going in the diametric opposite direction. I'm sorry, I can add. We have also heard the argument of raising domestic consumption, I repeat, 7.4% of the best-paid people in Slovenian society gain €56 million through this tax reform. How do you imagine that this part of Slovenian life will really contribute to internal consumption? Look, these finances are a luxury, they go into financial papers and so on. However, they do not make a significant contribution to raising domestic consumption, which could be circulating in such a way as to further drive the Slovenian economy. I can tell you the truth. As a Member, with this tax reform, if I am not mistaken, I will get 80 euros of net salary per month, me as a Member. I don't have a bad salary. Meanwhile, financial social assistance was stuck in 288 euros. So how's that fair? Where is that basic element of social justice? He's not here. And what are we going to do – and I can say for myself, 80 euros more net salary than I'm going to get after this tax reform? Do you think I'm gonna spend it just like that for everyday flour? No, it'll go to the piggy. This is the profit of domestic consumption from this tax reform. On the other hand, if we raised the incomes of the most neglected, poor, working classes, what we could do by increasing tax progress and then reinvesting such assets, this would really trigger internal consumption, not false American Trickle-Down economics, as you advocate in the coalition and even more orthodox in the right. Skoberna, a colleague from SD, spoke about the balance between this tax reform and the balance. I mean, okay, this tax reform may be balanced, but the balance between the rich and the capital; as has been the case for the last 10 or 15 years, taxes are steadily decreasing, while inequality in Slovenian society is growing. Those who do not have a large part of Slovenian society have fewer every day; those who have more each day. I mean, if that's the balance, then it's very high on the right. To conclude, the argument about how young people leave us because of too much taxes and so on. And it is true that young people leave us because they do not have the opportunity in Slovenia due to the hyper-use of capital and the rich, which parasites at their work. I call upon all of this to support our amendment. This is probably an empty invitation, but for a fair tax reform. The rich really don't need extra tax breaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I have to take another call and point out that taxes are quite an exact matter and require, in fact, that we also specify them accurately, not with some general Flossules. Let me say again, we are talking about people or people who are committed to active income, which are included in the annual income base. Our structure of taxpayers, their distribution by tax grade, is extremely unfavourable and unequal to tax structures in other countries. Once again, in the first tax grade, 58.5% of all taxpayers pay € 365 per year. In the second tax grade, an additional 32.8% of the taxpayers who pay EUR 2 000158 per year on an average. What we want to achieve with this reform is to alleviate the progression. Our tax scale is one of the most progressive in the world, and that is what we want to do with this reform, or with this restructuring, so that I will not be misunderstood, to address it. Let's ask ourselves once again, is it true that the payer is 1.6 times higher than the average wage, that rounded up means 2 000 600 euros gross, or a thousand 600 euros net per month, or is it really rich in our society? I don't think so. In doing so, this tax reform begins and their revenues are referred to. What do we want to achieve? We want to improve the conditions for opening such jobs, not jobs where workers will be paid with a minimum wage or something small above the minimum wage. We want to develop Slovenia in which it will truly prove itself or where the income of an individual will be higher and the tax burden is one part of creating conditions for the development of such jobs in Slovenia or, if you want, raising the income level of existing jobs. This is what we think we must aspire to, and this goal can also be achieved in the first step through the proposed reform. I agree with the speakers that the tax system must be stable, but we must also take into account that the tax system stems from the economic environment in which it is set, and if the economic environment is dynamic and changing, then we also need to follow the changes in the tax system in an organised and transparent manner, and we also want to introduce further changes in the tax area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u36	Messengers and Members, welcome! Any change in the tax system is important in the sense that it creates a different environment, of course it can also bring a number of problems and problems, because the tax environment is constantly changing, but the intent is that with the changes we want to push all things forward. And when we ask ourselves what tax changes would be necessary to ensure a more stable and sustainable growth in Slovenia, then the answer to this question is mainly tax change, which will in one way or another increase domestic consumption. If we look at economic growth from three different sides, such as in terms of exports, from the point of view of public investment or domestic consumption, then all economists will be able to tell you that if we want to push our economic growth further, domestic consumption is key. Exports are doing relatively well, while public investment is conditioned by public financial capabilities, with the European money we have, and then we get to that key issue of domestic consumption. However, domestic consumption cannot be increased in any other way than by leaving more people in their pockets. You can't spend any more if there's nothing left in your pockets. And all the changes in our tax legislation, and in particular the changes in income legislation, should go in the direction that more people are left in their pockets. The problem that I see in this law that the government has set before us today is that we're going after a group of people. While the government estimates that this is a group of people who, compared to other similar groups in neighbouring or European countries, are overburdened, as the minister said, are overly progressive. Well, that is understandable, but without understanding why the government is so strongly opposed to increasing general tax relief. A rise in general tax relief would be most helpful to those with lower incomes, especially migrant workers working across our northern border. According to our assessment, this is practically the only way to solve the problem of daily migrants in a constitutionally acceptable way and to resolve their demands. Those of you who participated in the Committee on Finance may have noticed that we have proposed an amendment for a general tax relief of €7,000, unfortunately this amendment has been rejected and the article is closed, so that we cannot even today amend this part of the law. However, I think it is a shame that the Government, if it has already made some effort to amend the income laws, has not yet made a small effort to increase the overall tax relief. Rightly raising the general tax relief, as I said, would solve a lot of problems. But the situation is what it is. I would like to mention another matter here, which remains intact, is the question of the 50th grade of income. It seems to me that I, too, have given up on this because there is no point in arguing about it, because it is a highly ideologically overheated issue, around which, in particular the left part with the Social Democrats and the United Left at the head, they want to collect additional political points. From this address, they have as many as they can and should have, but it is difficult to understand, according to common sense, why regular employees who are in a regular working relationship have a slightly higher salary must pay extremely high taxes, while ultra-rich people already have an established cap on contributions, in particular those who sing, and while ultra-rich can be super-taxated through the ownership of certain companies. I would expect those who are advocates of the middle class to be strong in order to take this society forward so as to address this issue in such a fair manner. Of course, the easiest thing to say is that the 50th grade has to stay because we don't give money to the rich. It's great to explain things in 15, 10 seconds, but actually matter is much more complex. There are few opportunities for the government to bring income changes to parliament, because if the opposition is doing so, they always very quickly and simply reject us, but when the Government does so, one would expect things to get a little wider and try to address as many questions as possible; but it is, as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister and, of course, in particular, greeting my former co-worker, who is now on the other side, so good luck on this new path. When we talk about the Income Act, it's always like this, now we've heard that it's face-lifting, cosmetics, nothing changes, there's not going to be any efficiency, no one will have any of it. Nevertheless, I think that we must be at least right here to say that this law proposes certain solutions. Everyone has their own vision in this. I'm one of the more radical and I'd like some big, fast, effective changes, but now, after two years, I've learned that it's unfortunately too slow for my taste, but still somehow it's changing. The basic objective of this law is to somehow reduce this tax burden on labour income, as well as to harmonise the income from agricultural and economic activities with the new method of determining cadastral income, but I wanted to somehow define what this proposed law actually means. This law has eleven solutions that I would like to share with you, namely: firstly, the change in the income scale, such as the exclusion of part of the wages for business performance from the tax base of the employment relationship. Furthermore, raising the income threshold for eligibility for higher additional general relief, then there are changes in income from basic agricultural and economic activities, changes in the area of determining the resident status of natural persons, the introduction of exemptions to income compensation for non-profit damage due to violations of the protection of the rights to a trial without undue delay received by the European Court of Justice, then, in order to terminate the Directive, the decisions on taxation of savings income in the form of payment interest are also deleted. Then we have solutions here for further incentives to increase the promotion of health in the workplace, which is possible to forget. Then we have for those who receive income from a working relationship from abroad, where the possibility of reducing the tax base for the cost of eating between work and the cost of transporting to work is introduced, which was mentioned earlier, but also in another connotation, but also in this segment some work is done for those people who work. And maybe one of those interesting things that most people miss, but at least it's important to me, it's a deletion of the benefit to pay to political parties. Here it is interesting that a ban on the financing of political parties is also imposed here by independent entrepreneurs of individuals and individuals who carry out their own activities. I think that this is also one step further in trying to make some order in this country also because of donations to political parties, and maybe who's doing it in the nose. Finally, the removal of the income benefit from the capital gains achieved in absorbing the share of the social risks of capital by establishing a transitional period. These eleven solutions are too small for someone, too small for someone, but they only talk about this 50th grade and that this is not enough as a major reform, but if we look at the direction of the Ministry of Finance during this two-year period, there are also tax rebates and this minor tax reform that have taken steps towards some normal society that will have some culture and tax payments of its income and everything else. So also by somehow trying to get this intermediate class inside, we're trying to sort of get these little steps into some countries that have tails and heads. Hitting and making big radical changes, I'm afraid it's not going to work. We have also learned this, but there are many questions. There was no talk here about our unfortunate pascal, where it would be good to speak. We are all speechless here, but these are our political stories, which then blurt out various other things, but if we want to make order before our own threshold, we should also start. That's all on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Please sign up. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Actually, I'd like to respond to a few things first. First of all, colleague Škoberne defined this tax reform, which we criticise as antisocial in the United Left, as a way to increase productivity. I must oppose this because productivity is high when money is spent as much as possible in the economy. With this reform, the change in the income scale will happen – what? The EUR 60 million currently in the budget will go hand in hand as a reward for 10% of the best paid. This will not increase productivity, but will reduce productivity. This means that instead of building a second track with these 60 million or some other infrastructure development project, we will give 60 million as a gift to someone we do not know what he will do with this money; whether he will buy some foreign shares or buy a luxury car, but will definitely not use that money in the same productive way as he could if we invested it as a country in some infrastructure project. That's the first thing. Then it's connected again. My colleague Škoberna says that this will stop the outflow of the most ambitious into a more tax-friendly environment. That's another myth to be contradicted. I have not heard that people from Slovenia would move to a more tax-friendly environment, such as Bulgaria, the Baltic States or Bosnia. I am only talking about countries that are the most favourable tax environment in Europe, but are moving to countries like Belgium, where, despite having once higher wages than in Slovenia, the limit for the 50% income scale is already set at 37,000 euros, almost half of which is less than in Slovenia. That is to say, in countries that are in fact much more profitable, but are therefore more socially fair and more developmentally oriented. This brings me to the core of my argument. Indeed, as the Minister has already said, it is a myth that we have high taxes in Slovenia when we talk about income and similar matters. When we look at income and compare it with countries that are actually comparable, not with the Baltic countries, Bulgaria and so on, but with the surrounding countries of Austria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, we see that our income is relative in the context of these countries. And these countries are the ones whose companies are our direct competitors and what standard we can measure, but not with some Bulgaria that has been dead for 10 years or more, practically developmentally, from which people are fleeing and where all social justice has died and young people are just waiting to be evicted from it. We must not compare ourselves with such countries, but with the better of us. Better countries than us have better income or even more progressive income than we have. But it's true that we have too high indirect taxes, it's called spending taxes. For example, VAT, which is 22% at the same rate, pays, say, when spending thousands of euros, is 220 euros of pensioner with 500 euros of pension or a manager with 10,000 euros of gross salary. This is a socially unfair tax, and here we should ask ourselves how we can reduce it. On the other hand, how can capital, where we are almost the least taxed in Europe, be more taxed before last, and how can we also include capital revenues back in progressive taxation because it is the only one that is fair. So the more you get, the more you pay. We would advocate such an income scale and therefore propose an amendment that all together or that the change in the income scale should end in 2019, because it is simply this solution, which is before us, unthinkable, undeveloped and anti-social, and buy ourselves two years of time to find a better solution, which will be developmental, social and just. This is our goal, and I am essentially once again calling on Members and Members to support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mr. Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleague Moon is a specialist in misunderstandings and misinterpretation and, above all, a specialist in the disposal and construction of castles in clouds; unfortunately, static does not allow us to build a better world there. Like the criticism of the Catholic Church, God’s kingdom on earth must be built here and now. What my fellow moon is, I hope, not maliciously, but I suppose that yes, I misunderstood, is my thesis on where we raise productivity. We increase productivity by including employees in getting the results of what they are creating, what they are doing by decommissioning their 13th salary, so that those who have created something collectively in the company, in the craft workshop, can be given the opportunity to take what the country has collected today as part of the net reward and therefore be more motivated to participate more actively in the work of a company. To understand this, you need to talk to craftsmen, employees, and shopkeepers. Some of us come from families that are craftsmen, some of us have worked more at forestry workshops, and others have taught more and of course not understand. But it's all right. What is therefore important when people are allowed more net income, of course they will spend more. As they will spend more, as I said, the income of entrepreneurs, the economy, can also be raised from this title, so it is logical to raise the tax on the income of legal persons and this part is levelled. What is most demagogic and most dangerous is the purposeful creation of the feeling that they are employers and employees in conflict. Together they create, they generate, they develop together, they sell together. I was a few days ago, and now it will be fourteen days, I think, at a meeting of the Chamber of Commerce in one of the major companies in the Upper Savina Valley. There, the company, the employees, the management breathe with each other, develop innovative products, grow, create added value and understand that, when they are more competitive in quality, knowledge, and with their input and effort, they also increase performance, sales, and thus what they deserve, and what they get. One of the objectives of this tax reform is to relieve these people, help them. If you want to postpone this reform for another two years, you will only do so that what they create will not be able to obtain a higher net profit, there will be no higher productivity and at the end of the day you will of course contribute significantly to a worse economic picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. My former student is a good rhetoricalist, but a little less logical. All right, he gave me a leak. Yesterday, I was at a bicycle workshop in Maribor, which is also verifiable on Facebook, and I was talking, and I had a little lunch for the employees there, and they explained to me how they dropped the hourly item on 15 euros gross, and that seems to them quite a lot, but the comparable item is in Austria, I think, 56 or 58 euros. I agree with the Minister that taxes are an exact matter, and I also agree with Mr Tonin that they are complex matter. Now I know they're gonna pull my ears a little bit in the game, but luckily for now, I'm not in any game. That is exactly why I wanted to be told exactly when we had more than eight hours of debate on the parent's working body on the Committee on Finance. At that time, the current Minister was still in the role of Secretary of State, deceiving that they could not say this because of data protection. Yes, how will you work, people of God or heaven, restructuring and tax reform and efficiency if you aggregate a little bit over your thumb! I and the United Left would have no problem finding the middle class of young engineers, but then, Madam Minister, I would like to see the structure of these people, who are 7.4% in this. Then we would quickly see that young engineers are very few to receive a few euros a month for 2,000, 600 gross if they have none at all. And someone who is -- I'll say, this is a candy for those who turned the tax hole, sorry bank hole very much in their own way. And they're going to get a few hundred euros a month. Another point that is illustrative that this will immediately translate into domestic consumption. Maybe this is going to become more of a foreign consumption, this Circus 60 million. Our problems are, of course, as they have already said before me, an excessive proportion of indirect taxes, which are the least unjust, which also strike one, say, the president of the SD, who said that he cannot survive with these money, but a pensioner who has 500 euros in pension or less in essence. With such, I will say, binary – I hope even stupid – the logic of tax restructuring will not, of course, drive the economy. Which is also clear to you because you also wrote in that there will be less impact on the economy. I worked alone and as a student and started some family business where usually, as I have said many times before, everyone, some wages, often minimal, pays one or two. Everyone put me on the floor, and everyone, and everyone, who's working with these brewers now. And they were able to say very nicely what an investment they had to make for two and a half years so that they could both — and I really appreciate them — pay the minimum wage. In short, a little window will have to open the service cars and step into the bike shop, into the brewery, into the craftsman, into some small auto school that you want to actually destroy with the new law, and think a little bit more and then also think complex taxes. I will have a third point — the corporate tax. The Minister herself said that this would be a good percentage more in practice or you said that we would come from 11.5 to 12.85 after your calculations, and that would probably be even less. We should open up and look at tax reliefs for investment, for development and so on, where there has been a lot of fraud, let us be honest. There is no problem in the United Left that we will give tax relief to someone who will develop technology that will result in better working conditions for workers, better wages that will actually allow co-ownership and economic democracy, as you have also written in some coalition contracts, and I cannot even wave with this in fact and even set up some State Secretary for cooperatives, and somehow there is almost no confiscation after half of the term. Taxing this way is unrealistic and at the same time unfair. Like I've been pinning for the whole term, it's high time we went to logic and, and, and, uh... If we wanted to give some more net pennies to young engineers – great, I would give them, after all, because they would go to buy some book in an e-form or different and will be educated, but then we should aim it differently, but not forget the data on poverty that we have. With such restructuring reforms or whatever you call it, we will only be late for decades. A single relief mentioned by some. Sounds good, but I'll read it to you. In fact – what? Employees with under-average salaries and pensioners get substantially less than the best paid. That's another thing. According to the Ministry of Finance, this is down to 470 million. One of you really like it here, you have a social cap that's going to mean over 800 million, and we're going to get there at 1.2 billion, or a break in the social state. When it comes to these matters, it is also necessary to present this through such aggregations, and it is evident to me that there is a strong populism. But this whole thing is interesting, and this morning I've been asking questions, and I'm going to burn all the time how many customers we have in the National Assembly. In the National Assembly, we have one client, one client, one client, one quarter, one half. The party is composed of SDS and SMC. This is essentially the SDS, a colleague of Shircelj explained more than SMC on the Committee what would be the result of this tax reform. But the SD always has some duality, the quietest is because it's the most obsessive of the country. They are half, don't mind me, in Novi Slovenija, which could be conservatists of the 21st century, they turn to the prince. The fourth is Desus, because it's important that Karl is with him, and whatever ministry you give him, he's going to have an affair, and we're a party. Then there are some unrelated ones; and that is essentially the problem. Until we break through this policy on the right, which has a different agenda than we do to talk seriously, we will not have serious tax reforms until then, as well as some major changes that citizens and citizens expect from us. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. A replica, a debate? Okay, here you go, mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u46	I would expect Member Trček to at least recognize our work, that we are more than half, that we are more than one, because I think, if we have not now proved that we have serious ambitions in this sense, that we are proposing again and again measures and proposals in the field of taxes and economy, then I do not know what Member Trček is looking at. But despite all that, he mentioned this general tax relief, how it was all without connection and how it would plunge a huge hole into the budget. But at first, he also debated the need to look at everything in an integrated way, not just one detail. With regard to this general tax relief, which has unfortunately fallen on the Committee, I am sure that it would solve many problems not only for day-to-day migrants who travel to Austria every day, but also for the public sector. What am I saying? I am convinced that if I were to receive a general tax relief of up to 7,000 euros, all citizens, and in particular public servants, would gain enormously. With the rise in general relief, the lower pressures we are facing today should also be after the rise in public sector wages. In such an elegant way, a higher general tax relief could raise net wages in the public sector while not increasing or curbing these pressures, which are now emerging to raise these salaries in the public sector. In short, if all matters were to be dealt with in this way, this budget deficit would probably be much smaller than that referred to by Member Trček. However, if you add another indication to all this that almost 4,000 additional civil servants have been employed in years or in the recent period of Cerara's government, then put it back into a new perspective. If the ZUJF and all these austerity measures have reduced public sector employment by around 4 000 employees, this is now completely destroyed by Cerar's government in two years and we are somewhere on the ground that we started to shrink the public sector in 2012. But what I want to say is that an opportunity for some very concrete overall relief would be if all these things were taken into account if we were to curb the public sector, if we were to curb the appetites after the increase in wages, then all citizens, not only in the public sector, but also in the real sector, could have these higher general tax reliefs. This should be some goal for all of us here in Parliament, not just to look at one group of people, but to look at the whole country as a whole. So I hope that at this time Member Trček has changed his mind and nevertheless recognizes our great role and effort in improving the tax environment or business environment in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate slowly? Not yet. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I absolutely agree with Madam Minister, who says that the income scale in our country is one of the most progressive, possibly the most progressive in the world. This means that this conclusion requires urgent action. This amendment to the Income Act makes this curve slightly more flexible, but it is still a dramatic 50 % rate and a simple analysis shows that 1% of the taxpayers in the fourth income class, this 50%, pays, thus contributing as much to income as 41 % of those in the first income class, this 16 %. Is that fair? Is that fair? I don't think so. However, it would be interesting to hear from the Minister, given that my current third income class, Grade 41, where in 2014 there were good 83,000 taxpayers, we are now dividing this third class into 34% and 39%. I'd like to know how many people are in debt because what the projections show, how many people are going to be in the class now, and how many in the class 39%. But the fact is that we, according to Gini's coefficient – we have to put something on the scale – that we are a very egalitarian society, I add, unfortunately we are egalitarian in poverty, we are an egalitarian society in poverty. Many countries, which also had a totalitarian system 25 years ago, as they were in Slovenia, are now overtaken on the left and on the right. And if we look at tradesmen and entrepreneurs now, they say that they have slowly enough empty promises and unfulfilled proposals and that they absolutely disagree with this tax restructuring and they demand that the country do significantly more in eliminating the grey economy. This is huge, it can also be estimated at about 10 billion a year. The grey economy is perfectly normal to create unfair competition for entrepreneurs, craftsmen. So there's money that should be obtained more in the form of taxes and contributions to the tax box. Tax registers – see, this is not the right solution. If we expect to receive more than €60 million in VAT on a yearly basis with the tax box, this is Pirov's victory for me. On the other hand, the grey economy, the scale, as some say, is about 10 billion. So, I expect more money from the government, with the coalition in amending tax legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Please, if you sign up, I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Dr. Franz Duck has no more time to discuss. Good. Then we can finish. Thank you very much. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Mags. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Members! The basic purpose of the bill is to simplify tax collection procedures or to fulfil tax obligations. In order to achieve this objective, a new institution is proposed – a pre-filled calculation of social security contributions by which the tax authority will issue to certain categories of taxpayers a pre-filled calculation of social security contributions. This will make it easier for the taxpayers to meet their tax obligations and reduce their costs and ensure that the tax authority is properly and on time to collect its contributions. The proposed arrangement will apply to debtors who have to account for themselves and pay social security contributions, and the tax authority has data for them to determine the basis for paying these contributions. This simplification is particularly important for small independent entrepreneurs or self-employed people. In order to ensure liquidity and thus facilitate the payment of taxes and contributions from taxable persons, a five-day suspension of the payment of taxes and contributions shall be introduced where these are paid in the form of a tax withdrawal and in the case of social security contributions to which the undertaking is liable. In order to bridge the liquidity problems of a taxable person who does not yet meet the conditions for insolvency proceedings, it is proposed that the tax authority may, in cases of simplified enforcement, allow a taxable person up to a 60-month interest payment of the tax and thereby support restructuring. The proposal for a law with a new institute introduces the possibility of submitting a tax invoice under tax inspection. If the taxable person submits a tax invoice in accordance with the findings of the tax inspection and at the same time with the invoice provided, the obligation found will be fully settled, he will only pay interest at a lower rate and will not be penalised for the offence. The proposal for a law systematically renews the charging of interest burdened by a taxable person for failure to comply with tax obligations by increasing the interest rate by a phase of non-compliance. The proposed determination of interest ensures tax fairness as it eliminates the imbalance in the payment of obligations in relation to the severity of the infringement. In determining the amount of the interest in respect of non-compliance with the provision, account shall be taken of the gravity of the infringement and the circumstances of whether the taxable person has lifted the infringement itself or has been found by the tax authority. The proposed regime also follows the effectiveness of the tax procedure, which must be one of the fundamental leaders. Taxpayers who meet their tax obligations correctly and on time will not be subject to interest payments. By changing the amount of interest, the proposal gives taxpayers the opportunity to take advantage of a self-declaration institution which is more favourable than the applicable regime for the taxpayer. The changes in the area of tax enforcement aimed at ensuring the existence of the debtor, his family members and other persons to which the debtor must survive are also important. These provisions will also be reinforced by an amendment to the regulation to be issued on the basis of the amended law, which will significantly reduce the costs of tax enforcement in the various elements. The draft law transposes into the Slovenian legal order the three directives of the European Union governing the exchange of data in the field of taxation. The transposition of these Directives is also linked to the OECD action plan for the BEPS project on the reduction of the tax base and the profit supported by Slovenia. The aim is to provide instruments to tackle tax evasion and the illegal diversion of profits. The proposed amendments also follow the transparency of tax collection and the legal security of taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is proposing to the National Assembly that you support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 64th urgent session. 9. 2016 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly is at its 70th session. 9. 2016 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The opinion of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was also forwarded as additional material to the members of the Committee. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the draft law to each article were tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, the SDS Group and the NSI Group of Members. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the main objectives and solutions of the proposed law and presented in more detail seven sets of amendments brought about by the proposed law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a written opinion on the proposal for a law focusing in the first part on the rule of law. She said that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups in that part followed the comments made by the services; she further pointed out the comment to Article 14 and drew attention to the dispute over the provision that the entry into force of the rules relating to income from the basic agricultural and forestry activities would be linked to the application of the law which was not yet in force. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee welcomed the positive attitude of the proposed law. They considered the proposed solutions to be appropriate as they would help improve the business environment and the business of economic operators. Support was expressed for further removals of administrative barriers, pre-filled collection of taxes and contributions for self-employed persons, shareholders and farmers, the five-day extension of the deadline for payment of taxes and contributions to pay and the promotion of self-declaration. On the contrary, others pointed out the issue of the entry into force of this law and the question of late interest rates, the question of the appropriateness of the amount of funds necessary for the survival of the debtor and its dependent family members exempted from enforcement. With regard to these funds, the issue of flag rights on vessels, aircraft and real estate abroad and the question of eTopicity is a matter of law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and voted on the amendments. It has adopted amendments to the coalition groups; it has not accepted amendments tabled by the SDS and NSI groups. Finally, he voted on all the articles of the law together and adopted the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much and thank you very much again; especially our former colleague in this National Assembly! I hope that he will be as successful as possible in his work at the Ministry of Finance. The Law on the Tax Procedure, which we are talking about at this time, is the only one in the package of three laws that is absolutely going in the right direction, so it also has the support of our parliamentary group. Once again, I cannot help but overturn the fact that the whole package of tax restructuring, as we now call it and also name it, does not go in the direction it should go. In the economic situation which is at this point in our country, after all, is not important because of whose merit the government should be significantly more optimistic, it should strive to create conditions for stable economic growth, new jobs, development, for a better future. With the package that's on the table today, we're not headed the right way, unfortunately. Once again, there are two delayed years behind us, and if you continue with such paces and changes as we have today on the table, unfortunately there are two more delayed years ahead of us. You have the opportunity, you still have the opportunity and the time, you grab things and you do what you need to do. As I have already said, this law on the tax procedure introduces good and appropriate changes, so we will support it in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Honourable representative of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we support the solutions of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act by introducing a new institute, which is a pre-filled calculation of social security contributions. This will make it easier for certain groups of social security contributors, who themselves are insured under the laws governing pension and disability insurance, healthcare, health insurance, parental care and family benefits and employment, to pay social security contributions themselves in the calculation of social security contributions to meet this obligation. We also support legal solutions that allow the five-day extension of the time limit for paying taxes and contributions after payment of wages or income. In accordance with the current regulation, the taxpayer must calculate and withdraw from the income calculation when the fulfilment of his tax obligation is determined in the form of the calculation and payment of the tax deduction, and pay on the day of payment of the income. The proposed five-day suspension measures will enable taxpayers to become more liquidity. In any case, the welcome solution introduced by this amendment to the law will be by introducing additional possibilities for the tax to be paid by hand for cases of simplified compulsory settlement. In cases of simplified forced settlement, the tax authority will be able to allow for the payment of the tax by hand in no more than 60 instalments. If you remember, last year we were able to get 24 meals through the renovation of the law. In the event that a taxable person suffers from a more permanent insolvency or loss of income on grounds that he could not have been affected by, a more severe economic damage would prevent the taxable person from obtaining more economic damage. The proposed method will enable liquidity problems to be overcome by a taxable person who does not yet meet the conditions for compulsory settlement or bankruptcy. The law also introduces a new institution which allows the taxpayer to submit a corrected tax invoice. This institution aims to encourage taxpayers to increase their participation in tax inspection and thus ensure a better legal position. More than necessary, it was proposed to extend the limitation of tax enforcement to debtors' monetary benefits. The purpose of these amendments and the addition of tax enforcement provisions is to ensure the existence of the debtor, his family members and other persons to which the debtor must survive. The proposal thus extends the tax enforcement restrictions to the debtors' monetary benefits if the debtor survives a family member or another person who is required to survive by law. If the debtor survives a family member or another person who is required to survive under the law, it may be in the tax enforcement of his or her monetary income, which, in accordance with the Income Act, is considered to be income from the employment relationship, be reduced to a maximum of two thirds, but in such a way that the debtor remains at least 76% of the minimum wage under the law governing the minimum wage; in addition, the proposed amount shall also be the amount of the remuneration fixed for the survivor. Such restrictions shall also apply to an independent entrepreneur, an individual or an individual acting independently and to his or her family members or other persons who are required to survive by law. Since this law mainly removes administrative barriers to taxpayers and provides additional options that enable the taxpayer to pay more easily the tax debt and extend the restrictions on tax enforcement, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Tax Procedure Act, a fundamental tax law that gives the debtors on one side of the right and on the other side of the obligation; it also gives the Financial Office rights and obligations. Therefore, the importance of this law is even greater. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support those solutions that represent greater transparency for the debtor, which constitute provisions that simplify the charging and payment of the tax. These are certainly provisions relating to pre-filled forms for social security. We believe that this should continue; the breakthrough in this area was made in 2006 and 2007, when the debtors first received the so-called IT calculation. After ten years, this is one of the following points, which, of course, is why we support it. Speaking of simplifications, we must say that in the Tax Procedure Act and almost every law proposed by that Government and the previous governments for adoption by the National Assembly, it has always been stated that it simplifies certain matters. In any event, there would be a question of why things had to be so complicated once in the past that there was a need for continuous simplification; in other words, there was probably a need to make some general simplification in the future. One of the areas related to the tax procedure and also to justice is the late interest. Here we believe that these late interest rates, their height, should provide some real basis or real value of money. Today we have a number of problems here mainly because the late interest was also linked to the eurobor plus the supplement. EURIBOR is now negative and the country has problems here. We certainly believe that the late interest should not be penalised, the criminal provisions are specifically mentioned; but to ensure that the real interest rate, which consists on the one hand of the economy, the state of the economy, employment and so on; and, on the other hand, the future inflation charge. Here we made comments, or amendments, which were unfortunately not adopted. We also have amendments in view of the implementation of this law, particularly in relation to those procedures that are actually under way today. Here we believe that the government should go into a solution that would in all cases constitute a more favourable situation for the taxpayer. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the law also has some positive solutions, particularly in the area of transparency, simplification and also in the exchange of data; therefore, we will not oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Secretary, other honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! The Law on the Tax Procedure further opens up the possibility of facilitating the payment of tax debt, for which we estimate in the Desus Group that it is necessary and more than necessary. This will be followed by a new provision introducing a new institution in the form of a pre-filled accounting of social security contributions by Furs. The possibility of paying taxes and contributions within five days of payment will also be extended. The proposed solutions are for the benefit of the debtors, as they enable them to meet tax obligations or administrative and financial savings, so there is no doubt that we will support the proposal for a law in the Desus Group. In this way, at the same time, we must ensure greater liquidity and transparency in the management of tax debt. Despite the efforts made so far, failure to comply with tax obligations remains a pressing problem. The provisions relating to the increase in interest rates with a view to encouraging the Institute of Self-Login, simplifying tax enforcement and tax control are also being amended. The data show that the tax debt is 30 days. 6. 2016 amounted to EUR 1.3 billion and compared to the situation at 31. 12. 2015 decreased by 3 %. The tax debt of the pension fund remains the same and moves around 20%. The situation in this area is slowly improving. However, further improvements are expected by the adoption of today's proposed measures. A solution envisaged to facilitate payment of the following tax obligations for cross-border labour migrants will also help to improve the efficiency of the country in collecting taxes and paying obligations by the debtors. In the Desus Group, we are pleased to have arranged, in the framework of the Rules on the Implementation of the Tax Procedure Act, for the taxation of those taxpayers who have incurred tax obligations so high that their social situation is crippled. In doing so, we must not forget that the situations that have arisen are very different from those of the case, so it is imperative to take into account the circumstances and the gravity of the infringement. In the Desus Group on this site, we reiterate the equal treatment of taxpayers and the fair redistribution of the tax burden. As we have already announced, Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well-known representatives of the Ministry and colleagues and colleagues! The Tax Procedure Act constitutes a fundamental law under which the executive authorities conduct procedures for the collection, assessment and recovery of taxes. It therefore sets out the basic rules which, for the debtors, represent the predictability and reliability of the proceedings. The Tax Procedure Act is therefore the one which has the main contribution to the so-called tax predictability. The procedures for charging and recovery of taxes have the same, if not even greater, impact on the long-term planning of companies as the amount of the tax rate. As entrepreneurs often say – less important is the level of the tax rate, such as the importance of stability, that I know my obligations and the procedures that I have to conduct. The complexity of the Slovenian tax system and procedures has already passed almost into a pronunciation, even though this may not be entirely true. Procedures, such as the IT calculation of income, make life extremely easy for the taxpayers. We have known him for years, even though he is unknown to many in the developing world. Nevertheless, there is always room for improvement. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance has been following the practice for several years to engage in dialogue with stakeholders and to prepare changes that can be made and thus simplify procedures, facilitate tax recovery and ensure the predictability and legal security of the debtors. After a public debate, he shall submit these amendments to the National Assembly for adoption. This way of working ensures that the tax procedure is slowly but steadily improving; however, the legal certainty of the debtors and the predictability of the proceedings is enhanced. It is also apparent that constant changes have a negative impact on the predictability of the system. To some extent it is possible to attach this to it, but it is a change that simplifies and relieves it. This is therefore a change that is less difficult for most taxpayers; not for changes that make life difficult. A complete change and a major adjustment to speed could lead to more uncertainty, complexity and unpredictability. This time, too, the Law on the Tax Procedure brings mainly administrative simplifications in the tax procedure and accounts. One of the key solutions is to highlight the introduction of an informational calculation of contributions and withdrawals for self-employed persons. Solutions regulating the time limits, procedures and late interest in default on the part of the debtors are also important. This is also regulated in many ways by the situation of Slovenian workers employed abroad, as it provides for an incentive scale of late interest, which motivates the debtors to act as soon as possible in the event of a lack of clarity or payment and thus to arrange for their tax obligations. We will support the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act because of the positive changes and simplifications it brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you again for your word and a nice greeting! Members of the United Left will abstain here. The proposal belongs to a package of laws that is socially unfair and economically harmful and we therefore oppose it. At a time when the government tells us that we will continue to have to give up, the government has excluded from this denial a bad tenth of the best paid in the country, which will have only a change in the income scale of around €60 million higher income next year. At a time when savings are forecast to continue in all areas, the overall impact of this package will be minus €46 million for the budget. This is more than it would cost us to finance the construction of a second track if we gave up the public-private partnership. In fact, these proposals are not about decommissioning businesses, as the government says; they are about 7.4% of the best paid in these companies and in political summits; they are the ones most responsible for the crisis we have been paying for almost a decade. Therefore, it is, of course, an unrealistic claim from the argument that it is a tax burden on employees. In fact, it is a tax burden on the best-paid, of which 90% of the population will not benefit completely. While the government emphasises that the situation of the poor 20,000 debtors, who will be entitled to increased general relief, will improve but will not be able to obtain only five million out of this package, eleven times less than the best paid. So the least paid will get eleven times less than the best paid. This is a social note in this reform. The United Left does not support such a fiscal policy and does not support a social policy that allows the socially disadvantaged to live from 288 euros a month; at the same time, it does not raise the euro by 200 euros at the expense of the budget. As you know, the Minister of Finance presented the budget on Friday. And this budget does not provide for an increase in social security costs. This means that social aid will not increase and will remain €100 below the 2009 calculated minimum costs. If I finally identify myself before the changes in the tax procedure, I can say that such changes make sense to us if they increase the efficiency of tax collection. This law is not promising, so the applicants also stated that there will be no financial impact. I am not saying that there are no useful solutions for the debtors in it, but it is important to ask honestly what is the real problem of this society – that self-employed people have to pay their contributions, or that we have whole sectors of forced labour workers, and that chastity is no longer a matter that is confined to young people. In the United Left, we have repeatedly proposed measures against leniency, lastly with the amendment of the Labour Inspection Act and the amendment to the Smoking Services Act. Nevertheless, the illegal situation in some industries has become a norm and, of course, it suits the ruling ones. The ruling parties need people who are subordinate, who are disciplined, who depend on their bosses. But this is not the subject of this treatment. We do not support this package in the United Left and therefore we cannot support this technical solution, which we are considering in the second part of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State; dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The bill represents a procedural part of today's so-called mini-tax reform and brings some welcome news. The novelty brings us provisions introducing a new institution, which is a pre-filled calculation of social security contributions. The tax authority will issue a pre-filled calculation of the contributions to self-employed, to shareholders, to farmers who are legally or voluntarily involved in pension insurance; to taxable persons who carry out their activities as a foreign profession and other voluntarily involved in pension insurance. The Institute will facilitate compliance and reduce accounting costs for those categories of debtors. Christian Democrats welcome all efforts to remove bureaucratic obstacles and facilitate the operations of citizens. That is why we welcome the introduction of the Institute of Pre-filled Accounting of Social Security Contributions. By setting higher interest rates in case of various tax infringements, the bill seeks to increase incentives for timely payment of taxes. This is a reasonable goal, which we support in pursuing in New Slovenia. As a weakness of the law, I should point out only that, compared to the current regulation, the law has set interest rates slightly disproportionately in these cases, as these could also be slightly lower. As positive provisions of the law, a further five-day extension of the time limit for paying taxes and contributions can be laid down, allowing greater liquidity for the debtors. We also welcome the possibility of being able to pay the tax by hand in case of a simplified compulsory settlement. Christian Democrats in this place call on the government to continue in future and in other areas looking for new possibilities for bureaucratic relief of Slovenian citizens. One of our important objectives must certainly be a lean and efficient state administration. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u67	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 71 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment that prevents the retroactive functioning of this law. The retroactive operation of the Tax Procedure Act could happen in itself. Today we have a number of tax procedures. Individuals, legal persons, institutions have a tax review and this tax review is carried out in accordance with procedures, which means that the taxable person must first be examined, then the tax authority or the Financial Administration will write and issue the minutes, the minutes may contain comments, followed by a decision, a complaint to the decision and so on. Then the case can go to a second level, to the courts. And we suggest simply that if these procedures are already in place and this law would change these procedures so that the debtors are in a less favourable position, so that they will always take better account of the situation, for those who are actually in the financial or tax process. I think that this would ensure greater legal certainty and also that the law could not be applied back. We do know, however, that a number of decisions by the Constitutional Court were such that they prevented any law from going backwards, whether it was a tax law or another law. That is why we have proposed an amendment to Article 71, and I hope that it will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u69	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We have carefully examined this amendment to Article 71, we are inclined to do so and we will also support it. On this occasion, I would like to point out the following. We regret that when we talk about the tax procedure, the so-called e-business is not slightly more involved in the tax procedure. This was even agreed by the Minister, then the Secretary of State, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, when we, the New Slovenia Group, tabled an amendment to Article 53 and actually argued with the Government's action plan. In the two-year Action Plan 2016-2017, on page 33, in the seventh chapter, entitled Effective IT, increasing the use of e-services and interoperability of information solutions, the measure of reorganisation of state information technology and the consolidation of human resources in the field of IT, by which the system is being built, the central system for e-Raising, which is expected to be in place by the end of this year. This Tax Procedure Act shall enter into force 1. 1. 2017. This means that eUrtion should be carried out in the manner stated in the government's previous action plan. I wanted to, of course, this was a utopian desire for Minister Koprivnikar to come to the meeting of the committee; but somehow I calmed down in the debate when Mrs Minister announced that in the next amendment of the Tax Procedure Act eTopication would be regulated as necessary; and that it was necessary to change, I warn, also Article 85 of the Tax Procedure Act. eCurrency does not mean that you publish this informational or exact calculation of the contributions on the eTax portal. eDelivery means that the debtor gets this precalculated form, this precalculation right into his secure electronic drawer. This is the concept of e-Raising that we've set up. And we regret that these solutions, which we somehow proclaim, the state also receives some awards, as far as I know; but people have nothing to do with it. And why should we not be somehow more diligent in implementing these e-services, specifically this e-Raising. Only through the eTax system does it run counter to the concept of service, whereby each entity can choose its secure email address to which it receives the official mail. The regulation is also important from the point of view of the Regulation on trust services, eIDAS is also called eIDAS, which further defines the trust services of secure electronic service and the obligation to certify providers and cross-border use. The Ministry of Public Administration is setting up an e-Raising system that is expected to be completed, as I said, by the end of this year. It is incomprehensible to duplicate functions while at the same time to be served in a different way on each portal. This, of course, causes confusion, reduces legal certainty and causes additional costs, and that is about how we argued our amendment to Article 53. And this would actually be some very important technological modernisation of the tax process, if we're talking about digitisation of Slovenia, digital economy, digital society. We regret, indeed, that we are not, or will not, in this law on tax procedure, to legalise the true concept of eUrtion that the government is talking about. The government speaks one way; when implementation is needed, it does not happen. And here we are very critical of why these solutions are not implemented for the good of people. This pre-filled calculation, the template for the calculated contributions, is an analogy to the income information calculation. When we talk about income, we are talking about an information calculation when we talk about this form of calculated contributions, this is an exact calculation. We regret that in ten years, we already have an informative calculation, which is the result of the work of the then Minister, Dr. André Bajuk, and Director General Durs Mag. Ivana Simič, we regret that there are no more informative or exact calculations where the debtor, one way or another, could have made these calculations in an easy way, so he would have paid through his e-bank if you wanted. As I said in the position of the New Slovenia Group, some solutions are good, we will support this law, I will say this again. The fact is, however, that the amendment of Slovenian Democratic Party colleagues would improve the solution. In some ways, however, I appeal to the government to be a little more careful in the next amendment to the Tax Procedure Act and to implement into this Act electronic commerce in the broadest sense, which must be professional and in accordance with the concepts that are set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u71	Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I'll start at the end, and then I'll get back to the beginning, because I have to answer some of the things that have been said. As for the service and the possibilities of electronic service, we already have a defined service in Article 85a of the current law. It is true, however, that this is not entirely true; it is only voluntary for natural persons, for those who carry out the activity, legal persons and so on. There is an eDavka portal, which is a central entry portal for tax purposes, which has developed quite well in recent years; it has not only become an administratively demanding portal as many others, but something useful, something that users also accept, get the information they need, also inform them, they are given certain writings and so on. However, I agree that improvements are always possible, and this will continue. But we will see what time will bring, as far as how this would be unified at state level. As for the operation of this portal, several steps have already been taken. Such changes also include checking what is already working, how users have taken this action, how they respond to this, so that any future changes will be of particular benefit to them. It was mentioned as regards payments. We already have a lot of options today on how to pay. Lately, provisions have been complemented by provisions governing the possibilities for payment of the debtors, such as deferrals, interest payments and so on. Here too, it is important to be careful that legislation becomes more friendly to those who are bound by it, and that opportunities are available to them. On the other hand, when taxes are recovered, the country may be more effective. If he finds out that he has property, he may avoid paying the tax, the measure. Thus, in these areas, several steps have been taken, and I believe that we will do more together. As far as the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is concerned, we do not support it. There are several reasons, and I'm going to try to thicken them somehow. As far as legal certainty is concerned, material legislation is without prejudice here. As far as procedural matters are concerned, in terms of what you would like, theoretically this would be possible to arrange in some way, then to place a number of additional provisions that would adapt to or refer to each individual institution as to how we would proceed in some case. In general, this is a little more difficult or I think it would not work. And as legislation is now written, these changes certainly follow that they are as clear and unequivocal as possible. This danger, which you have pointed out to the extent that the debtors may be at risk now or in a situation that is significantly worse, is not. However, it is still true when a procedure is under way when we look at those general provisions concerning whether or not they will apply to someone if we go to the area of evidence, because you are referring to it more favourably – this word relationship applies mainly when we talk about tax inspection and find out something to the benefit and also to the detriment of the debtor. And now, of course, these things remain. I do not think that such a solution is necessary in this case and, as it is said, we do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u73	I see there's still an interest in the debate, so please sign in. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This will be a replica to the new Secretary of State. The Secretary of State, who is here today for the first time in the role of Secretary of State, must take into account some general characteristics in law and what the Constitutional Court has already said, this is that the law cannot be applied retroactively. And since it has repeatedly been retroactive, the Court, the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice, have repeatedly discussed this, is, of course, a guardian in this article, proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The guardian that in all those proceedings, I have already said this twice today, in all those proceedings pending, from the start of the procedure when the decision is taken, or even if no decision is taken, now after the new Furs there is no need to take a decision, until the last instance if you want the Constitutional Court and so on; and if anyone, because of this law, would come into a worse position than it was, then this provision prevents it. That's all it is. Because this is not the case without this provision. And the taxpayers will in fact have to adapt and will not know. That's a suggestion of that. But if that's not true, then it doesn't hurt anything, it doesn't hurt anything at all. But, as it turns out, that is why the government, which is now represented by the new Secretary of State, has decided differently. Under the terms of reference, the government did not conclude on this, which was decided at the Ministry of Finance and is then spoken on behalf of the government. It's always been like this, nothing wrong, but just so we know who the government is. But that's all it's about. And it is not true that many provisions will have to be stated here and so on. No, you will only complicate this, this is a general general provision that gives a more favourable position to the taxpayer in case that happens. This will be established in the procedure of the Tax Administration. There's nothing harmful about it, nothing harmful. It is only legally clearer to see that there is now a debate between him and the consultant that the new Secretary of State will be properly informed of what he must do; but nothing harmful. [[…]] And if you're against it, then maybe there's something in the back. Now I don't know what the government wants to do with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u75	The government can get a word in between. Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u76	I'd say no to that hint. There is nothing behind that there will be no misunderstanding as to this possible retroactive effect. Nor did the Law-Legal Service get sick of it, we can say that it also indirectly attaches itself to this position that it takes. But thank you for that thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u77	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I would like to say, I would like to present that the Tax Procedure Act is indeed going in the direction of decommissioning administrative barriers and is therefore to be welcomed. This is a continuation from last year's package, which was the first part; it is now continuing and it is certainly positive that the government will once a year review what else can simplify. Of course, this pre-filled social contribution form received by the beneficiaries is positive because they will only be able to make payments; and this is also welcome as a preliminary income calculation. I agree with this, as well as all the other procedures that are being simplified. Nevertheless, I would like to point out at this point that eTaxes do work in some way and that all legal persons of this portal are using it. Actually, you can't do business at the company anymore if you don't use the e-portal. In spite of this, I would point out that entrepreneurs and all accounting work through an e-portal. However, the following questions are raised regarding natural persons, on whom I think this will somehow be introduced into procedures towards the introduction of digital technology. Therefore, I think that further simplification of the procedures and of this e-portal will also be this continuation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u79	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Private, I alone would like the government to implement the commitments it has chosen. If I used to say that the informative calculation is the fruit of the work of the Tandem Bajuk-Simič, then I would like to get eUrtion now in accordance with the Action Plan 2016-2017. I would like to commend the Tandem Vraničar-Koprivnikar to do the eWorking as described in this action plan, in 7. Chapter — Effective informatics, raising the use of e-services and operationality of information solutions. Because it is through this action plan that the e-Raising system is being built, which, as I said, should be ready by the end of this year. Now it would be fair for the government to say - sorry, we are not in a position to establish this system with 1. 1. 2017. I understand. They can be objective problems. You're talking about e-Taxes. Of course there are good solutions, but the service is a little different. Only through the eTax system does it run counter to the concept of service, whereby each entity can choose its secure email address to which it receives the official mail. It is said that there is a contradiction in the concept put forward and that the service over eTax is not good, it is not in line with the action plan, it is not in line with the system as it is supposed to be established. We also warn that we cannot commend the government for a truly good electronic solution to come before this Parliament and, above all, to the taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u81	I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law amending the Law and supplementing the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear ex-colleagues and ex-colleagues! Let me first tell you that it is an honor for me to be able to address you in this role as well, and I hope that we will work together well. Today it appears that we will be, so I look forward to future cooperation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax, which forms part of a package of tax restructuring proposals aimed at improving the competitiveness of the business environment, subject to stable and predictable public financial revenues. In addition to this novel, the package includes changes in the taxation of natural persons already presented under the second item of this meeting, as well as the tax procedure we have just discussed. In the area of tax policy, therefore, measures are proposed to support the prospects for stable further economic growth, which can be ensured by an improved competitiveness factor and productivity increase. In order to achieve those objectives, it is essential to ensure a sustainable structural balance of public finances and to maintain an approximately equal level of social state. The bill proposes to raise the level of corporate income tax by two percentage points and thus to cover part of the public financial deficit due to the work burden measures set out in the new Income Act. The smaller part of the solutions is due to the consideration of the second, non-taxable legal environment and consequently to the assessment of the appropriateness or sense of maintaining the measures in force. A provision of an explanatory nature is proposed which ensures equal treatment of taxable persons with regard to the determination of the amount of the tax base, irrespective of the accounting legal basis used, namely either Slovenian accounting standards or international accounting reporting standards. Provisions are also proposed to harmonise the ZDDPO-2 with the applicable legislation, namely, to facilitate donations to political parties, to specific rates for venture capital companies and to exempt profits from the seizure of equity shares in venture capital companies. Dear President, honourable Members, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the package of proposed measures to be the first step in the right direction, but does not mean the end of finding possible solutions to increase the competitiveness of the business environment for businesses, to maintain jobs in Slovenia, to have a positive impact on productivity and efficiency in companies; therefore, it proposes to support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u83	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chair of the Committee of Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 64th urgent session. 9. 2016 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly is at its 70th session. 9. He decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service also attended. In addition to the proposal for a law, the members of the Committee were also presented with an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and an amendment from the Association of Investment Fund Management Companies. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the Joint Left Group to Article 4, the Coalition Parliamentary Group to Article 6 and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 4. In addition, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the main objectives and solutions of the proposed law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the service had made a comment on the proposed law on Article 6 followed by the amendment of the coalition groups. As regards the other comments, however, appropriate explanations were provided. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee focused on the debate on which level of the tax rate would be most appropriate to achieve fiscal consolidation and, at the same time, to strengthen the competitiveness and productivity of the economy. Some discussers felt that the proposed increase in the tax rate in terms of maintaining that balance was appropriate; others felt that the tax rate should be increased further. On the other hand, some discussers pointed out the negative effects of the increase in the tax rate, particularly in terms of attracting investments, and therefore suggested a reduction. The Committee voted and considered the amendments. It adopted the amendment to Article 6 proposed by the coalition groups. However, it did not accept the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and the United Left. Finally, he voted on all articles of the draft law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u85	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Branko Zorman, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u86	Dear President, colleague Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to the Law on corporate income tax are part of the tax restructuring package, followed by a more favourable tax structure in Slovenia. The bill will mainly raise the corporate income tax rate from the current 17% to 19%. Higher corporate tax revenues of around €55 million will be used to reduce the public financial deficit on the one hand and, on the other hand, to reduce the tax deficit on income. However, it should be pointed out that the revenue burden will be much higher than the revenue raised under this heading. The corporate income tax will raise the revenue of the state budget by €55 million and, on the other hand, some taxpayers will have higher net salaries and will fall out of the budget totalling €106 million. The law should therefore be seen in conjunction with the measures of the Income Act, which will increase net wages and to a certain extent increase consumption and employment. It should be pointed out, however, that the effective tax rate in 2015 was 11.5% according to the data from the corporate income tax and decreased by more than 6 percentage points according to 2006. The current effective rate of corporate income tax is among the lowest in the European Union in Slovenia, at 11.5%, as said. This will now rise to 12.85%, where Slovenia will still be among the lowest in the European Union. The comparison of nominal corporate tax rates in Slovenia at 17% shows that taxation is significantly lower than the average nominal corporate tax rate in the Member States of the European Union, where the tax rate is 22.8% for 2015 and 22.6% for 2016. Among them, for 2016, France has the highest rate of 38% and Bulgaria’s lowest rate of 10%. Six countries have a nominal rate of less than 17 % and more than two thirds and 19 countries have a rate of more than 19 %. Despite the rise in nominal corporate tax rates, the burden on companies' profits is becoming a burden at a level favourable to the acquisition of new foreign investments. Tax incentives for investment and for research and development remain at the same level as they have so far been recognised as highly competitive. It is therefore not expected that the rise in nominal rates would affect investment decisions. It should therefore be pointed out that the government is following the right direction with the burdens of work which are over-taxed and with the burden of capital which is under-average taxation. The tax restructuring package will thus become a more business-friendly environment for the employment of highly qualified personnel. In view of the above, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplementation to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u87	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in its name mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u88	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We still have a third bill in the package of so-called tax reform prepared by the coalition – the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. The coalition proposes to reduce taxation from 17% to 19%. We have always supported the economy in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and thus all the stakeholders in the economy, the employees. We disagree with the proposed solution in the Slovenian Democratic Party and strongly oppose it. We oppose the proposed higher taxation on the income of legal persons for a number of reasons. We are convinced that such an increase does not lead to higher economic growth and job creation. Above all, we are confident that the matter will go against it. All analyses around the world show that in the event of an increase in corporate income tax, this means that capital is taxed to distribute this burden across all economic interests. We are confident that an increase in the profit tax will also have negative consequences for employees. It should be borne in mind that the economy, the owners of enterprises, invest in the development of the company and, without the development of the company, cannot be a competitive company on the market. We are confident that this will reduce the competitiveness of Slovenian companies, which will also have consequences for employees. Nor can we be past the fact that Slovenia is currently one of the countries of the European Union, where there are at least foreign investors or at least foreign investments. The reason for this is more, one of the reasons is also the unfavourable business environment. We are confident that this move will probably drive out those foreign investors who are in Slovenia or that foreign investors will choose Zagreb, Belgrade, Bratislava, Budapest instead of Slovenia. The Slovenian Democratic Party also proposed an amendment to this proposal for a law so that the amendment to the higher tax would enter into force on 1 January 2019. Regardless of the fact that the tax burden is increased by two percentage points, we are confident that this amount is large and that the increase in the corporate tax rate will have a broader impact not only on capital owners or business owners.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u89	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! The new law is part of, as we have heard several times today, a package of so-called tax reform or tax legislation, however you wish, which, as a result, plays a role in creating a balance in the definition of financial consequences and is a countermeasure in the so-called tax restructuring. This law is about making a positive financial impact, getting something more, about 60 or a million less. Of course, it is realistic to expect a tax or a tax to be lifted when more is collected from someone who will not encounter a positive currency in the shareholders. However, the new tax rate on the profits of legal persons, i.e. businesses, is expected to increase from the current 17% to 19%. We all know that in the last period, sometime since 2006, when the last major changes were made in the tax area, the tax rate has decreased from 25% in proportion to 2013, and is still in force at 17%. Here, we are now going up by 2%, by two percentage points, but we will not yet be comparable to the European Union as a whole. There is an average of almost 23%, with an average of 22.8% of this tax, according to the data available to me. We raise it from 17% to 19%, I speak nominally; this means that we will raise it from 11.5% to effective 13.2%). We're still on the tail, whatever you want, 20-22. The city with Poland and the Czech Republic, so this is not some astronomical entertainment. We believe that, at the time of recovery and economic growth, it is appropriate to start moving the wagon in the opposite direction from the regulation I have previously illustrated by the fall in this tax. Let me remind you that all these years the tax rate has been declining, and it is right that this trend is changing now. In the Desus Group we assess and we are sure that it should be and will be the opposite trend in the future; it is growing. Of course, we can't do this at once, and this also needs to be explicitly highlighted, to decide what is an enormous, astronomical rise; but we need to go slowly and also make sure that public finances are consolidated. Now the reasons why we will unanimously support the proposed amendment in the Desus Group. These are so far experience, unfortunately, many bad experiences. The reduced tax rate has proved, as it has been said, from 2006 to today, to be not the moment that would contribute and which would have meant that these savings, lower taxes, would be invested by owners in the development of businesses, creating new jobs, for prosperity. In general, but unfortunately, many times this savings remained in the owners' pockets, many times it was mirrored through expensive cars, through yachts, even as an outflow of capital abroad. The lower profit tax is not essential or has not affected higher economic growth at all, so in the Desus Group we support the solution that the tax rate starts to grow gradually. Let us recall, however, once again, how we like to compare ourselves to being far from being comparable, far below the average of this tax at the level of the European Union. And if the fact were true, the conclusion was that Bulgaria had a 3.5-fold and even lower tax that all investments were there and none in France with the highest tax, then they could indeed be concerned. We believe that the proposed solutions, such as the proposal for this law, should be adopted, which, in our view, will contribute to further economic recovery and have a positive impact on the revenue side, thus allowing sustainable public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u91	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Amendments to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons mean an establishment in a direction that was drawn up by neoliberal governments years ago. They represent the point at which the shift towards a fairer distribution of burdens between work and capital begins. Less than 15 years ago, the so-called corporate profit tax was set at a European comparable rate of 25%. This tax then started to decline on behalf of international competitiveness, and today this rate is only 17%. If the changes in the tax rate are eliminated on the time schedule, we can quickly see that the reductions took place at a time when the right government was in power. What are the results of this work? Substantially lower revenues in the budget and the threatened stability of public finances, but little or no realisation of the promised consequences – new investments, new jobs and development that are expected to lead to tax cuts. I'm afraid that didn't happen. In the crisis, the country's power of action was also limited due to a reduction in its income. In the time of fat cows, these revenues are significantly lower than they could have been. Neoliberal logic didn't bring any results here. Economic growth has brought innovation to entrepreneurs, work, knowledge and the efforts of employees. It brings a stable environment, with access to resources, markets and skilled labour; not low capital taxes. Most of the countries in the developed world retain their taxes on corporate profits at a rate that is strong over 20%. Some developed countries, such as the United States of America or Germany, are even approaching 35% at this stage. Why is he doing this? Since the responsible capital they want to attract in this way can appreciate the positive aspects of such an arrangement. The reduction of tax rates on corporate profits attracts only irresponsible capital. The door opens to those capitalists who are exempt from any tax or obligation. To those who desire and keep crops, and not to those who are aware that it is necessary to sow, cultivate, care, and develop them. This irresponsible capital does not wish to pay its contribution for the common good, while complaining that there is no skilled workforce available. It requires us to spend less on health and, at the same time, tardy that its employees are sick, to sue for poor and decaying infrastructure; but at the same time, it avoids co-financing. In Slovenia, however, we want capital, which will also be aware of its responsibilities. The capital, which is not a shy bird, has the courage to share in partnership and dialogue with the people. The implementation of a key solution to this law is therefore necessary. This is about increasing the tax rate on company profits from 17% to 19%. This is not only necessary to make up for the loss caused by the workload on the income side; it is essential because we need to build a fairer system with more equitable burdens. The corporate income tax is paid from the amount remaining after deduction of all costs, while income taxes only partially through relief take into account that individuals also have living expenses. By increasing the rate to 19% of the corporate income tax, it will still not be high. It will remain much below the European average and lower than most neighbouring countries and those with whom we also like to compare. Will the lift signal that in Slovenia we want everyone to contribute their share for the common good?Oh, my God! Therefore, the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons; we will reject some proposals that would further reduce this burden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! In the United Left, we will abstain on this issue, of course, not because we would be against raising corporate tax; but because this raise is significantly too small. Slovenia is in the case of capital taxes, as the United Left continues to point out, on the very tail of the European Union; and after subsidies and state aid to companies at the summit itself. This means that raising the rate to 22%, as proposed by us, would in no way endanger Slovenian competitiveness, but would increase the budget revenue by at least €90 million per year. We urgently need these funds for development and for social services. And this is the only way the economy, this is the capital owners, will repay to the citizens the aid they have received through the rehabilitation of banks. The poor claims were private debts of various church and similar holding companies, which were converted into public debt by the rehabilitation of banks. And it is time for this assistance to return to the citizens and citizens who have paid for it. In Slovenia, capital is very low. This applies to the capital income of natural persons, to property of high value and to the profit of undertakings. It is therefore not surprising that, according to the latest available data, we are in the last place in the European Union by the size of the tax base for capital; and by the percentage of the taxes collected, we are in the last place. This is partly due to Bajuk's legislation, which exempt dividends, interest and capital gains from solidarity taxation. Since then, a pensioner with one share has paid income at the same rate as a speculator who owns thousands of shares. The main reason is the corporate income tax. There is a lot of relief in this law that reduces the tax base; and the rate itself is significantly lower than that of Europe. The government proposal has not even touched on the benefits, despite the fact that the analysis shows that these incentives do not affect productive investments. The government proposal thus foresees an increase to 19%, although the European average is 22.6%, even though all neighbouring countries have a higher rate, even a significantly higher rate. This tax reform clearly shows the duality of coalition parties, in particular those declared social, namely Desus and SD. At the declaration level, these two parties are committed to decommissioning the middle class, but the new income scale will not relieve the middle class; it will only relieve 7.4% of the best paid in that country. At a time when we still have a record rate of poverty, when we have almost 70,000 recipients of social assistance living from 288 euros per month, these social parties are devoting themselves to the middle class; in practice they are working in the interest of 7.4% of the best paid in the country. The same could be said for a profit tax. Social Democrats wrote in their economic programme last November that they are committed to raising the tax rate to the European average, i.e. by 22.6%, and to overwinding the benefits. But in this law, the rate rose to only 19% and all the reliefs remained the same as they were. As far as I know, none of the presidents of the coalition parties protested. There is no rational discussion of taxes in the National Assembly. It is clear that the neoliberal recipe is pure gold for the coalition and for the right opposition. On behalf of this doctrine and in the interest of the poor tens of the richest, we will thus give up 150 million budget revenues at the time of the greatest savings. If low taxes were a guarantee of development and prosperity, Bulgaria would be a recorder with a uniform rate of 10%. Countries such as Germany, with a rate of 30%, or Belgium, where the rate of profit tax is as high as 33%, would be in total dispersion, but it is quite the opposite. In the United Left, we are aware that low taxes are mainly a cover for low productivity and a recipe for state poverty. This is a reliable path to provincialisation, which, unfortunately, has made so much progress in the last ten years; therefore, we will not support the proposal. However, they would strongly support the tightening of the tax rates on capital, since, as I have pointed out in my position, they are comparatively seen in the latter place as regards the tax base, and in the latter place as regards the tax actually collected for capital. This is an injustice that we need to change in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! For two years, we have waited for the Government of Mir Cerar to send to the National Assembly measures that would be a burden for the overburdened Slovenian tax environment. We have seen the so-called mini tax reform. We Christian Democrats have quickly come to realize that the proposed tax reform is not really reform but merely a tax redistribution. In fact, when we consider the amendment of the Law on corporate tax, we are in fact on the target plane, it is actually the finals of tax translation. If we have given up or if this coalition has given up 106 million income inflows, then this hole needs to be filled. And where to take it? Yes, the economy. This is the logic of this government or this coalition. Practically every six months, we are experiencing some amendment to some law, some measures that mean over and over again additional and additional burdens on the economic sector. So translation, according to the local word, from one pocket to another pocket, instead of the government preparing a systemic intervention into the tax system that would leave businesses and citizens in their pockets with more of their earned money, development firms, individuals for more consumption. Some of the provisions in the proposed package of laws were still hopeful that the government would fix certain things in our tax system. The government, however, imagined that it would finance all of this from the part of our economy. The economy that has been the victim of too long of too light a state tax evasion, as we sometimes hear from government circles. However, the state's tax evasion of our economists is not and cannot be seen to be over. Moreover, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, which we are currently considering, places new tax burdens on our economy's back. The proposal for a new law provides for an increase in the corporate income tax rate by two percentage points, from 17% to 19%. At this point, when the government should propose a reduction of the rate from 17% to 15%, Members of New Slovenia are disappointed to note that the Slovenian coalition reality is unfortunately such that we have to fight against such an unacceptable proposal as is currently at the table. Christian Democrats point out that, above all, Slovenian export-oriented companies are the pillars that contribute most to the growth of gross domestic product, as announced by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in recent days. In New Slovenia, we ask the government whether raising taxes on companies is a penalty for their success; does the government realize that it is with such proposals that it impedes the development of our economy and the growth of gross domestic product in the coming years?Oh, my God! We Christian Democrats are very opposed to thinking that every time we need a new source of budget money, we just need to pinch off the Slovenian economy, which, on the other hand, always has enough budget bags and creates the best jobs. As we know in New Slovenia that our companies play a key role in the lives of our people, and because we do not want our young people to have to look abroad for their opportunities, we will vote against the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u98	Have a nice hello to everyone again! We will also vote in our parliamentary group against the proposal to amend the corporate income tax. This is not because the 19 % rate of this tax would be so crucial or terribly burdensome for the Slovenian economy. The reason is that Slovenian companies, from large to small, need a stable tax environment for their success. In the last ten years, I think we have changed this corporate income tax at least six times. At least six times if we're talking about rates. I think that such conduct is unacceptable to the state or government. We have also announced the fiscally stable environment, however, in the documents that we have sent to Brussels, on several occasions; not because it would be well heard, but because it is because of the fact that you are telling us that a stable tax environment will affect not only investors but also those who judge us. Just because we're changing this tax again ad hoc doesn't mean anything good. And once again, even at a 19 % rate and with the benefits that remain, Slovenia will not be among the best, far from that; nor will it be among the worst countries in the European Union. If we made a genuine tax reform, which would then hold and last, as would be appropriate for tax reform, at least for a medium-term period, this measure could also make sense. The fact is that this third package, which we have on the table today, places an additional burden on the economy, so the words are that this restructuring of tax burdens has a positive impact on the economy – blah, blah. Of course not! And that is also why a large and small economy has resisted this restructuring. The profits of owners will be created or created by new jobs, only new jobs mean development, only new jobs mean the possibility of a social state and only new jobs mean the future. Without new jobs, young people will go abroad, and every year we will renegotiate about the pensions of our pensioners. That is why the proposal before us, according to our assessment, goes absolutely in the wrong direction. And that's why he doesn't have our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u100	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We have already said in the opening position of the Slovenian Democratic Party that we will not support this bill. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we decided to propose an amendment to enter into force on 1 January 2019. We have tabled this amendment for several reasons. We are convinced that the step taken by the government to raise the tax rate for the profit of businesses by two percentage points is too high. We are convinced that such a step means lower economic growth as well as fewer new jobs. In particular, we have heard from the positions of coalition groups that Slovenia is among the lowest in the European Union in taxing the profits of legal persons. At the same time, it must be said that Slovenia is also one of the countries with least foreign investments, which clearly shows that the economic environment in Slovenia is not friendly. This is why foreign multinationals decide to open their seats in Zagreb, Budapest, Bratislava, Belgrade and neighbouring countries. The government in the material it has sent us foresees that this amendment of the law will bring some €60 million of additional savings into the budget. I'm sure this amount will be significantly lower. But I would have a question for the government. The fact is that Slovenia is also a country where there is a lot of state ownership. I wonder if the government or the Ministry of Finance has done a simulation, what does this change mean for the dividend policy of state-owned enterprises and, consequently, how many less dividends can we expect in the coming years on behalf of state ownership? The fact is that SDH, as instructed by the Government and the Ministry of Finance at all the assemblies, puts forward counter-proposals to increase the payment of dividends. As a result, two percentage points will increase the corporate income tax, which means that state-owned companies will also have lower profits. I was wondering if you did a simulation of what that would mean for the dividends to be paid in the coming years. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the consequences of this increase in income tax will not be borne or will not only be the burden of capital owners, but all studies around the world have the result that this burden will be roughly distributed in the same way, which means that employees will also feel the consequences. The fact is that responsible owners make sure that the profits are then returned to the company for new development, for new markets and, consequently, for the creation of new jobs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we ask the coalition to reconsider our amendment's proposal. We are convinced that the proposal of our amendment is in favour of the economy and for the benefit of all employees. We are convinced that with higher taxation of profits we are making the economic environment worse in Slovenia. As a result, capital owners will have less chance of investing the profits they earn in the company's further development in some investment. Despite all the steps taken by the coalition to call the three laws that we are considering today a mini-tax reform, this is far from it. What the budget will suffer in the so-called burden of the income scale, you have decided to gain in some way by amending the law on the income of legal persons. In fact, it's about translating money from one bag to another. A respected coalition, a respected government, in view of your statements on economic growth, if we listen to the President of the Government, we can see that in Slovenia we are leaking honey and milk; we do not understand, we could go into this whole reform bolder and really make the economic environment one that would also attract a foreign investment. Because I am sure that new investments, new investments are the only guarantee or only guarantee to create new jobs. The government boasts that 50,000 new jobs have opened up. I would like to hear once how many of these jobs are at the expense of the economy and how many jobs are at the expense of public administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In Novi Slovenija we have written an amendment proposing that this amendment of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons be enforced only in 2018. Why? Because we want to give at least another year to the economy more oxygen. True, Prime Minister Miro Cerar likes to boast of economic growth and says that these are the credits of this government. Okay. It would be fair for the Prime Minister to also say that, for example, Government Action A has brought in the structure of 2.7% of economic growth, let's say 10%; government Action B in structure 2.7% of economic growth has contributed 30% and so on. I would like to quantify government measures if indeed government measures are those that are driving economic growth. But me – we are very good, we are the best government, we have finally economic growth and so on. It's not fair. It would be good if, at least sometimes, we told the Slovenian economy, this is a healthy Slovenian economy. And let me tell you something else, we can also give you the titles of companies that we have visited when some of you are talking about capital, I would like to give you the titles of companies to go see, to talk to owners, directors; and they will tell you the following, that their largest capital is a man, an employee. And they all start their story like this: we're lucky, we have a great collective. And further, we would like to share some of our profits with those workers who create it, as the owner of the profits, but the state should also give up. No, the state says no. In the Income Law there is indeed a minimal change, the first step towards what we want in New Slovenia. We want the Christmas tree to be regarded as a regression. In Austria, the country takes 6% from the Christmas tree, 13% and 14%. Calculate how much we have. It is true that the level of corporate income tax is not only a key element in the competitiveness of this country. Competitiveness is very complex. It's got multiple elements. You say that taxes on the income of legal persons are relatively low; I have even heard that the lowest in Europe is effectively 11.12%. According to our assessment, according to our taste, according to the New Slovenia programme today or 2017, to be more accurate, the tax rate on the income of legal persons should be 15%. We've done this before, you've broken it down now and you're raising this rate by four percentage points. True, we also introduced a time of relief for research and development. I think we should make things better here. I'm not saying our solution was ideal. But today I am listening to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which says that this moment 200 Slovenian companies have a tax review and that tax inspectors, representatives of Furs, are watching how these 200 companies have made it possible to facilitate research and development. That's worrying. I'm not criticizing anyone here, but the system is probably too complicated. We should make it easier here if we already have these R & D facilities. It is a feeling that now that the economy is prospering quite well, the President of the Government is boasting about it, and now the economy needs to be hit on the head with a new tax, with new taxes. I'm not going to list everyone now because I don't have enough time. The report on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the first half of the year also makes it clear that the corporate income tax is increasing. If you look at the data, you can see that the realization is 58.3% relative to the 2016 budget adopted. We have collected almost 15 million more taxes on the income of legal persons in the first half of this year according to the same period last year. That's a pretty good number, almost 15 million. You'll say again that maybe the first half isn't the same as the second half. I don't know, maybe it's true, maybe it isn't. But if I extrapolate linearly, I can estimate that there will be about 30 million more corporate income taxes this year. 30 million more than we planned in the budget. Why? Because the economy is doing well. And if the economy is doing well and as long as the economy is doing well, it will be good for us, first for the workers who are employed there and then for all of us. Why? Because money doesn't grow on trees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. I think that in those days when the government was also working on the preparation of the budget, we were all aware of this, but certainly the government that money is not growing or the tree; only one observation about this. It's another matter of amendments. We have received, as has already been said, two amendments, one from the NSI Group, the other from the SDS. The one drafted by the NSI Group sends the whole amendment in order to somehow delay the application of all the articles of this Act to the following year. This, in our view, would be inappropriate, not only because of the work we are somehow thinking about holding public finances in balance, but also because there are certain measures in place concerning venture capital companies, where changes are necessary, not only welcome. That is why it must be brought to an end. As far as the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group is concerned, there is a proposal that the tax rate rises for two years should be suspended. Now a few comments on what was also mentioned in the debate. With regard to the higher implementation of the corporate income tax, however, it is worth noting, as has already been said, that the economy is growing successfully, even thanks to this government. As a result, the tax calculations made by legal persons during this year were a little higher and therefore a little higher. I hope that this trend will show this in the future, because this means that the economy is doing better and that we will also have more available money for those policies that we have set for ourselves. Then it was mentioned that many companies in the field tell you that their largest capital is human. I think that today's debate, as well as changes, have also taken place in this light, particularly in the area of income, where it is intended to reward business performance. Those who are successful are stimulated by something more, with lower income burdens. It could also be said that someone who owns a certain company is giving up part of their profits at the expense of giving it in some way a reward for business performance, while the country is also giving up on that income, namely part of the income income. Here, however, the country has stepped something together, even if we draw under the line at the end, as far as this restructuring is concerned, it is not only neutral, but, at the end of the day, it remains the economy. More remains, in some ways, the economy through the fact that certain costs are being incurred, the real payment of income is being reduced, as well as through other measures, those measures which are in the tax area of the tax procedure. Why? If there are fewer administrative obstacles, they can devote more time to their business, spend less costs on administration and generate more revenue by engaging in their core activities. If we move forward, this change is still valid with 1. 1. 2017, at least the company’s cash flow provides for some sort of gradualness. Why? Because this will be known mainly through the withdrawal, from month to month. When this moves from 17% to 19%, this deposit will be gradually paid a little more during the year. Finally, through the budget, it is expected that around 90% of this will be known over the year and about 10% then in the calculation. Part will also be shown in the company balance sheets, but this is not a tax effect, it is said mainly by the amount of tax deferred. The temporary differences that occur in the balance sheets, such as the case of someone who brings past tax losses, someone who may have some reservations from the past, will know that he will have a little raise in the balance sheet and will be able to benefit later. But it may not be that important from this point of view. If I return again, the balance of public finances is extremely important. Why? Although it is often said that ratings are something very abstract, they are not so abstract when we get to the company. Why? Since the undertaking is in debt, the underlying interest rate to which it relates is the one to which the country is at risk. If the state falls in interest rates and works well with public finances, and this is actually a success through consolidation, it is known in practically every undertaking that is indebted because it can refinance its debts, it is easier to borrow medium- and long-term loans, which is also actually happening in the economy now. In recent times, a number of companies have also taken a step that may not have been so possible or could not have been successful in the past that they may have issued commercial records for the medium-term funding period, including interest rates that are significantly below those already a year or two ago. Some are already in debt under three, two percent, which is very important for the economy. This is a set of circumstances that enable the economy to compete. Ensuring the stability that we have to provide in public finances in some way indirectly helps all those in debt to do business; and somehow, by raising the country's credit rating, it also raises their credit ratings. And as we say, we do not support these two proposals for all these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvat has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, you have been a long time politicians and I am pleased that you have also opened the area and said that we also have economic growth based on government measures. That's exactly what I was talking about. Can you quantify these government measures? This is absolutely necessary, since then those measures that are more conducive to economic growth need to be stepped up. That's all this is about. And here I really ask you to analyze your government actions. How much did the individual government measure contribute to the 2.7% economic growth structure? I'm very grateful in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. I have two introductory comments on the coalition tax on the income of legal persons from 17% to 19%. Too little and too late. Why not? Slovenia is an effective tax haven, we are on the tail of the European Union as regards the capital taxes collected; therefore, in the United Left we have also proposed to at least try to get closer to the European average, which is 22.6%; unfortunately, our amendment was rejected. In today's debate, the words of courage, mainly by the right-wing tribunal, have repeatedly been spoken, and they wanted more courage from the government to reduce capital taxation. The fact that you're lowering capital taxes, the fact that you're giving the rich millions, budget millions with tax breaks, doesn't require any courage. What requires courage is that you step on the capital's tail, which is also the only promising development strategy. He's on foot for profit, that's the only max he's chasing. When a statement is made in this National Assembly that our largest capital is a man who reportedly comes out of the mouth of capitalist directors, it is okay. Then why do we have half of the jobs in Slovenian society if man is such a big capitalist and some kind of benevolent uncle who would like to pay higher wages to invest; only an ugly, ugly country will not give them too much taxes. Once again, Slovenia, as far as corporate income tax is concerned, is an effective tax haven in general compared to the European Union. Countries in our neighbourhood and in our competition, to shoot down few statistics, have the following corporate income tax: Austria – 25%, Italy – 27%, Croatia – 20%, Hungary – 19%, Slovakia – 22%, Germany, with which we like to compare so much, almost 30%, Belgium – 33% and France – 38%. These are the countries from which foreign investments are taking place in Slovenia. What I want to say is that it is not just some naked listing of numbers, as Slovenia is behind after the taxation of capital compared to our neighbours and partners in the European Union. I want to say that there are some mantras - let's lower taxes and investment will happen and high-tech corporations will come and everything will be nice and wealth will run from rich down to poor - they won't last long without drinking water. It's just an ideological bubble. When talking about oxygen for the economy, we will not bring this oxygen by reducing capital taxes; we must do the exact opposite, and this is what we are taking in the United Left. Progressive taxation, this has to be sharpened. It is necessary to raise the corporate income tax at least to the level of the European average and then to invest in infrastructure, public goods and so on. In this way, we are only building domestic demand, building quality jobs and moving on to a broad range of social progress. What's happening to us right now is not stagnation, but regression. If all these mantras on lowering taxes and on capitalist prosperity and utopia persist and if low taxes really contribute to growth, employment and prosperity, please answer me: Why are we not talking about the Bulgarian developmental miracle? Bulgaria has had a single tax rate of almost ten years, 10% applies to income, 10% applies to legal persons. But what's going on? Bulgaria, through GDP, the rate of poverty, unemployment and emigration, ranks more strongly than a third world than a developed Europe, as we can hear from the authorities. Here, you have a theoretical, if you want, and a purely practical example of the Bulgarian development model, why the tax reduction strategy does not work for the rich and the capital. In support of this point that capital is a bird's beach and that we have to go to his side and I don't know how to jump around rich people, celebrate them and blink them and invite them, I'm going to quote Jožet P. Damian, the development minister in the first Yangtze government, who said the following about the interview for Youth, quote: "We haven't moved our share of high-tech exports at the same level as we did ten years ago because of higher profits and greater investment." What's behind those words? We can draw from them the fact that low capital taxes are in fact a bare cover for low productivity and a recipe for state poverty. Under low-tax conditions, there are diverse semi-prespective entrepreneurs who build their profits by hyper-exploiting labour instead of going to high-tech development, innovation, research and development. Therefore, Bulgaria is not an economic miracle; indeed, according to the ideology with which it parades the political class, it should be. On the other hand, we have France, Germany, Belgium and so on, which are valid for successful countries, for breakthrough countries, for the developmental tip of this world, with taxes on the income of legal persons above 30%. It is hard to talk about courage when it comes to giving to the powerful, when it comes to giving tax exemptions to the rulers of the world, capital. What really takes courage is to raise the income of legal persons to some fair level, at least to the level of the European average, if not more. That takes real courage. This means confronting the powerful, confronting the lobbies, confronting the fugitive capital, taking our destiny back into our hands and saying no, and our society will not dictate the greed of some individuals and corporations. That's brave. And that's the courage that the Slovenian political class can't do. The right-hand man speaks in a diametrically opposite way. Here the liberals, who are covered in left, are essentially doing what the right does; only they are trying to make it look good and put on flowers. For example, in his economic programme last November, the SD said that they were committed to raising the tax rate to at least 22,6 % and to overwinding the benefits. This is the same SD that is now in the government and offers us some cumbersome tax reform, which is one big tax exemption for the rich. They ate up their own program not a year ago. The same is true of Desus. In Slovenia, we have witnessed a consistent reduction in taxes on capital and on high incomes over the last ten years. And this does not coincide with the lost decade that Slovenia could turn into a breakthrough. We had Bajuk in 2006, which reduced the corporate income tax rate from 25% to 20%, then Šuštersič had an additional reduction to 17%. In both governments, Social Desus was also self-proclaimed, and they agreed to reduce the income to eliminate the tax on paid salaries, which would, by the way, have been compensated to reduce the rate of contribution for the employer's pension. There is no courage in this, it is the removal of rich lobbying, capital; it would be courage to oppose it. And that's exactly what we're doing in the United Left today. We will hardly agree to give the rich tax breaks, that for the 50 million tax gifts to the richest – 7.4% of the population in Slovenian society – poorer our budget, in which it is said that there is no money to invest in a second-track development project, for social assistance to the weakest who are beset from day to day with 288 euros of social assistance. This is not what we are going to do in the United Left, so we will not support this cosmetic tax reform and the cosmetic tax hike on the income of legal persons. Although we will not oppose the bill, it is a step in the right direction, but, as I began my intervention, this step is too late and this step is too small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u110	Perhaps it would be wise to start this debate with an anecdote on the optimisation of the cow by Marxist Miha. You know how it is. The cow gave her too little milk, she ate too much, and then Marxists suggested that they would give her less food day after day. And when the cow finally got used to giving milk without food, the next day she died. And Marxist Miha said – and we just taught her to give milk without eating. Something similar is happening in the taxation of the income of legal persons, or in the domestic sense, taxation of corporate income. Of course, on this left Marxist side it is to hear fear and trembling as the rotten capitalists abuse all these things and take all the profits and the workers work for minimum wages. Of course, it is also true, it is rotten capitalists, it must be disabled as soon as possible, taken to the Age or elsewhere, where bars have their place. But we can't generalize all things. In this Slovenia there are also many good capitalists, good entrepreneurs who give jobs to many Slovenians. And if we understood that development was financed from this profit, we might be looking at things a little differently. Any company you go to, they tell you it's profit-funded development. If there is no development, if you do not update the services or products you sell, then there are simply no customers once. But if there's no buyers, there's nothing to sell without profit, and there's no jobs. Marxists should understand that, too. The cases of Nokia and Canona are very exemplary, but at some point they stopped investing in development; they are virtually gone. And when Member Kordish talked about how we need high-tech companies that will pay high wages to workers, I absolutely agree with him. But it can't be done in the way he proposes. High-tech companies also need a large profit to invest a lot of profits in development, because it is only in this way that they can maintain their advantage over competition and can thus be highly technological. But if you take all their oxygen, then it's clear that these companies will eventually land like some classic manufacturing companies, which are subcontractors who can give workers a minimum wage. If this is the goal followed by Marxist Miha, well; but this is not my goal. And here I want to be very clear. Since some of you are laughing that someone will not take this as an insult, I spoke to Ambassador Kordish in the hallway and said he was proud to be addressed by a Marxist. That no one will think that now I'm counting here or I'm saying bad things. He himself expressed the desire to be addressed in this way, if necessary. Who are we going to charge with this extra, with a higher tax rate? Above all, those who do what is fair, who show some profit, because that profit is also used usefully. However, all those who know all tax machinations to optimise themselves as much as possible and have a positive zero in the end, although everyone far away sees that this is not the case, and those tax rates will virtually not be affected in any way. And again, in such a quick way, we hit the head of the most good and conscientious. With regard to the Bulgarian model to which such solutions are to go now, we have a Bulgarian model with a 10% tax rate if Members of the United Left have told me correctly; but we also have an Irish model with a tax rate of 12.5%, which also exists. Obviously, tax rates are relatively similar or in the same place; but the difference in quality of life in one country or another is very different. Of course, each one has his own reasons for doing so, most likely the reasons on this side may be in a strange and unusual transition. I also think that it is part of those problems that the Bulgarians have, the matter of their transition, and maybe too much taste or the rest of the time that they came out of, and they want to get rid of; but that's their problem, I don't want to go into their stories. I just want to show that there is not just one case, there is another case where the standard of living is completely different. And if they can have 12.5% in Ireland; why in Slovenia now, as is the case, 17% is excessive and has to be raised to 19%. It will not be a mistake for me to merely embezzle the Members of the United Left; there are also some things that need to be said to the government representatives. The Secretary of State must have advised entrepreneurs in a well-intentioned manner, if they had too much profits, and were not overtaxed, they still have the opportunity to devote this profit to business performance. Otherwise, a good proposal with one drawback if taxation of this business performance was not so high that it was not worth doing. If we went even better in parallel to lowering, rewarding business performance, there would probably be more interest here. I know that the answer from the Ministry will be that they are very trying, that they have already shown in their current efforts that this taxation of business performance is declining, but nevertheless let us look at a little bit more in our neighbouring countries how things are. How has the matter contributed to economic growth? Of course, economic growth is important because it shows some general economic climate in the country. It will also depend on how businesses will operate and in our interest it must be that businesses are doing the best they can, that they have as much profits as possible, that they invest as much in development as possible and that they give workers the best possible wages. That's our goal. Of course, it is important to ask what the government’s efforts so far have been to do with this. On this second anniversary of this government, there was a lot of talk about what this government has done to ensure that we have economic growth today. I alone have no idea of the three or four measures that this government has taken to make the economy better today. I just don't know them, and I don't think they are. If we make an objective assessment, we can find that the first year of this mandate was primarily the government's task of teaming, establishing a team, looking for ministers, I think that the largest number of ministers have resigned or gone. This is because we have new and untested customers. There were also no major surpluses or reforms during the second year of this mandate. There were several proposals that had been stopped or stopped before they came to Parliament. The only measure that I think really worked at that time was the ZUJF. ZUJF, preserved by the government of Alenka Bratušek and ZUJF, which until recently was also held in some parts by the government of Mir Cerar. The only serious measure for a stable public financial situation and for the environment in which the economy was feeling well was Minister Marble, the former Minister and then his right-hand hand of the current minister, to make sure that everything was in some normal public financial framework. This is what I think was far from being the greatest contribution to this stability and to the situation that we today have such economic growth as we have. One more thing to say is that this law will burden the economy for an additional EUR 60 million. In the previous two laws, we have burdened citizens with millions of euros. The government says that part of this amount will be found within existing reserves and increased budgetary revenues, and part of this burden will be restructured and transferred to the economy. The economy will now be further burdened with €60 million. If we add plastic to the current public sector employment, I have already said in previous discussions that only in the time of the Government of Mira Cerar, the number of public servants has increased by almost less than 4 000 and that according to the data available to us, these 4 thousand public servants will be worth about EUR 20 million each year for salaries and similar things. If you add to this now this September release of the compressed salary scale in the public sector, you are at €70 million per year, which we will pay more for these measures in the public sector. This is also one of the things I see on the negative side, not on the positive side, the actions of the Cerara government. The EUR 70 million that the state will invest in the public sector will be picked up on the side of the economy. It's unacceptable to me. Because every cow has to eat if they want to give milk. Pika. Until we are aware of this, the economy will be able to become extremely burdened until this economy is kneeling. The only thing the economists praised was the corporate income tax. For this tax, which we are increasing today, economists are telling you that it is one of the few taxes that is competitive compared to other European countries. And where we're good, even where we're competitive, we're going to start making things worse. I would say very simply, because we will give the public sector an additional 70 million euros a year, on the other hand we will burden the economy for 60 million euros. I find that unacceptable. But you can find a thousand reasons why this is good, but sooner than later you will come to the same realization that if we want this country to work, if we want the social state to be high-level, if we want infrastructure to be built in this country, then we need a real sector, then we need a well-standing company that will give people a job, and that pays well, not a minimum wage, so that they can spend these salaries and thus fill the state budget. You can have a thousand ideological contradictions and obstacles, why it's some different mantra that doesn't hold, but actually it's the only logic that works in the world today, and everything else is utopia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Here you go, replica, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you, Chairman, for the replica! The "Farish Liberal" Tonin may be familiar with the anecdotes of dead cows, but in development policies there is little skill. As for milking a dead cow and all that, see, Slovenia creates more than consumption. Essentially, substantially more. The surplus in the balance of payments over the last 12 months has been 7.9% of GDP, so we will create more than 3 billion euros than we spend. What is a real case for us in Slovenia is that some capitalist cows get fat at the expense of a Slovenian worker, because of a bad tax policy that favors rich and capital instead of making a fair contribution to Slovenian social well-being. In order for low taxes not to contribute to development, he also met macro-economicist Jože P. Damjan, who I mentioned earlier, I will mention him again in this replica. "In terms of technological structure, because of higher profits and greater investments, we have not moved even by a millimeter. Today, the share of high-tech exports is at the same level as 10 years ago." In short, the capitalist cow is getting fat, and the Slovenian worker is "decorating", which is the only story that is here, and we must prevent this by raising the corporate income tax even to a higher level than the Government is proposing at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss, please, if you'd like to sign up. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, chairman. Before I get to the cows, which is a good point, I would like to say that I am trying to follow this debate, which I find difficult to call a discussion with some basic substantive mathematical logic, even though as a high school student I mainly sprayed high school, after basic education I am still a natural mathematical technician. I must say that I hardly find this logic or statements are often illogical, even sometimes it just says some party colleague of mine, but we come to that. But first, about cows and milk. The State Secretary from the Ministry of State boasts that the milkiness of Slovenian cows has gone up, and at the same time this is a problem in this sector. Why? Because for a litre of milk that a farmer receives paid under less than 25 cents, even after 19 cents, he cannot survive. It is also important to produce how much milk cow we want or even exaggerate here. We could compare a cow here to a worker. And I don't want to be insulting, not to the workers, not to the cows. And on the other hand how this product – milk – will be packed and sold. For example, some relatively small economies cannot compete in milk production with milk surpluses, as we know that we currently have it in Europe and that more intelligent societies face tax and other policies more effectively. I'll bring up the neighbors again, about 15 kilometers from the airline. And there a farmer can survive milk processing. Of course, because they have BIO milk because they have alpine milk because they have free pastures and so on. At the same time, you also need such an economy that the worker will have such a salary that this type of milk will also be slightly more expensive to buy. So these cows were a very nice point. I want this transition to stop being an excuse, because I don't want to sit here in a wheelchair like an old MP, if I'm still here, and we're still going to talk about some transition. We like to talk about the public sector here: the real sector. The problem with Slovenia since independence so far is that this so-called real sector of yours has often known irrelatively and irrationally. Some people who are somehow overpriced through some wave of privatisation – but we can go from the piduvian to the tycoon to the DUTB now – became some owners, did not know because I am a nemarksist, I will use your vocabulary, this capital to elevate. And that's the problem. In the language of the people, because there were some shabbazers. In some transition societies, it was similar, and in some other transition societies, these people who, in a kleptopathic, often corrupt way, came to own property, this property could somehow be eloquent. We do not need to go far, we can look at the Slovenian food processing industry or, if you want, Croatian. Hello! Good morning! And these are some problems we actually have. We always push about it 'privatize, privatize', because it's basically all privatized, as Hans said the last time, 'we've almost destroyed everything already,' and then he listed four companies that we haven't somehow destroyed. If I go back to whether we're going to call it reform or restructuring now, of all this non-debate, I have a feeling that someone executive power and government has flagged, that they've gone to change some income scale and then they've watched a little bit that this hole in my knee won't be too big and at the same time they're turning 60 million holes in the tides at the same time as they're looking for this DTPO. Look, I can personally say that I would be most happy if the tax on the profits of legal persons would not come into the budget, but all of this would go directly back to the companies for everything I've said before. This is where Tonin sat on his ears. But unlike me, someone else is reading some reports from the Court of Auditors and something else, Madam Minister of Zeha, and in fact, to make this easier, I know that I am already a boring Madam Minister, that these facilitations are somehow weighed and somehow passed through this work of the fine-tuning tax system. No one has a problem with this money going back to business, to innovation, to better working conditions. I could also start the debate now, but I will be sued despite the immunity of some companies that you all so impudently mention, and I am talking to the workers about what the conditions of work are there. But you know, cutting Kevlar and giving it together is quite like dealing with asbestos. You probably know who I'm talking about. What we now have here on the table will not cause some crazy changes, except that you lower some social standard to those most needed. What Luka said earlier, from the forecast of what we will have on the table on October 5, 6th, the next budget shows that we will still have some social security from 2009, aggregated to 2007 data probably in 2017. Such policies should be closed according to that penal code, and I will find you some articles that could somehow make this happen. And that's the problem. You're all talking about the first half, the second half, at least the more experienced politicians should know that in a normal term we need to talk hockey because they are thirds. You have the first third, if you do anything, then the third third, when you get a little bit apart from each other and prepare for the next election. Then there's the penalty shots and the extension in between, and then we'll get the next composition of the National Assembly. I hope, Tonin, that at least we agree on this metaphor somehow. Well, now the mints are coming. You know, now she's the minister who's the "uncle" on the desk that her MP told us about, who's been following us from cradle to grave, she's going to give us some candy. There will be no more sealing on the property for a protective supplement to this and this amount, but in the middle of it happened to us for half a decade, at the beginning there were 41,000 elderly people with a protective supplement, and now there are 4 thousand. Good morning! These are some things where I sometimes think I'm actually talking to myself. Now I also have to criticize Marxist Miho for not just Tonin and this story, the cow metaphor. In fact, it's not true what Micah said that our low taxes actually bring you low productive production. We have essentially high productive production. If you talk to the workers a little bit, they're working over the edge of exhaustion, but we're still in that extension phase, as Marxism's volcano is called, labor intensive production. This is the problem of the irrationality of the real sector. Now I could have you because I have a pretty big head and a good memory, which one of the political parties looked at the economy because it turned out to be a total incompetent. Somehow, however, this little connection depends on how long you were in the executive power, not the nun, some of them happened beyond that. If we look at this debate today and the debate on the committee, I think it's a tragedy. The tax non-reform is explained to us by the SDS and the taxes are explained by Kordish and Tonin. Someone who would look a little out of space at this House and tell him what a coalition or government is now, would probably say something else. But we have 35 people who are mostly silent, and some of them have to sit in here on duty as a hockey exchange. Well, at least the Secretary of State has now received a tax area that is more or less eloquent. We have an essentially very important topic that is happening today in such a way that some slightly unhappy week. Let's be honest. The Minister already has a suitcase full of us, she'd go to work, most of us couldn't talk, some of them are here freezing, some of us are repeating ourselves, and this is supposed to be some parliamentary debate on such important topics, which in one way or another concerns all of us. I don't know. I push students like that for a perfox. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am very surprised that the distinguished colleague Mihi Kordiš does not like the title Marxist, otherwise he would not have regretted the introduction of my colleague mag's discussion. Matthew Tonin, and you, Mr Vice President, should react. It was an ecclesiastical insult. But I'm thinking and I'm going on. Who's powerful here? There was a speech that the powerful were the ones to be hit taxly. Probably powerful in the private sector, at least that's what I imagine. But let's look at the private sector. 99% of the small economy means the whole economy in the private sector. The small economy is 99% of the economy. And who's powerful here now? I don't know. When we talk about taxes, the question arises what is fair, what is economically effective and what maximizes prosperity. That's what this is about. We, New Slovenia, are putting a man at the forefront. It's about the welfare of an individual. And I expected answers from the government to these questions myself. Here today we have heard quite a few manipulations with rhetorical structures, such as that corporations should pay taxes. I say companies don't pay taxes, people are the ones who pay taxes. So the rhetorical structures, we're taxing corporations, paying taxes instead of workers, and so on, hiding the essence. The burden of each tax is borne by man, not by some abstract entity, corporation d. d. or corporation d. o. o. The burden of corporate income tax is borne specifically by shareholders and workers and consumers, the latter over higher prices. The findings show that, normally, more than half the burden of this tax, the corporate income tax falls on the salaries of workers in the form of lower wages. So those who fight for higher taxes on the profits of legal persons are fighting for lower wages of workers. However, the entrepreneur, the director, the owner must ensure part of the money that the company develops, that in 15 years it will also be able to give jobs to those who are now in primary or secondary school and who will carry out professions that we do not know today. The high corporate income tax discourages investors, inhibits growth and entrepreneurship and reduces the level of innovation. But you should have understood that slowly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. 20 years ago – you are more progermanically oriented – the famous book Pasti Globalisation has been published. It was written by two editors of Spiegel at the time, and I've already talked about it, in which people, my colleague Horvat, German key managers of the largest companies praised that by the year 2000, they would not pay any taxes to the German state for tax optimisation. Then too many businesses to fail, come into crisis, people go back and ask the country to help. Such a fine example was the American automotive industry, since you know that when asked about them in Congress, each of you arrived on his own plane. It was people again, my respectable colleague. One thing you have reminded me of, and I am partly in agreement, as I say several times, is that we lack medium-sized enterprises in a global sense. Companies that have, if you want half a billion to one billion per year after home cash flow, and around this cluster, serious, smart specializations and niche economies are formed. It's not like that. I will not now return to my beloved subject, Talum Kidričeva, and so on, in which I would explain it, because it is likely that Luka will say something else about how Comrade Horvat does not understand this tax. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have listened with great interest today to the debate of colleagues and colleagues on the mini tax reform, now on the profits of businesses, where there is a story that the corporate income tax increases from 17% to 19% and, of course, debates about and against why it is a counterweight to the fact that, on the one hand, you relieve certain income scales, as we know, 41% of us have somehow divided into two thresholds, i.e. 34% and 39%, you add, sometimes you take. Now that debate for and against, arguments for and against, and finally perhaps already colleagues and colleagues are also using a strange vocabulary, there is an insult. However, as a macro-economist, I would like to say why we are ugly capital representatives or customers, who somehow realize that without serious knowledge, without serious products, there will be no greater prosperity, why we always reduce the so-called corporate income tax, which is why this was our solution for the year and year, respected colleagues and colleagues. This is what I think we owe today to tell the Slovenian public, Slovenian citizens and citizens. And this is also my argument to the Ministry of Finance, why it has set the wrong history of society, especially of the Slovenian economy, and where is currently that key weak point of the Slovenian state. If our common path and our common goals, including all the customers here, are to live better, to have better well-being, to not listen daily, to collect stoppers, to enable children to operate abroad, to have no waiting lines or to have better roads, then the question is how quickly do we want to achieve some prosperity. We have more options. One possibility presented today by the so-called socialists, I call it post-communists, is that they are not socialists according to the example of Germany, because it is there, we can say, an insult to the German social Democrats. It is the path where you can wait for years and years and hope that certain Slovenian small family companies will develop into medium-sized enterprises and, as my colleague Trček said, become some medium-sized companies with cash flow between half billion and billions, and this will take place for the next two generations and people will wait for the next 70 years if there are no major crises and your great-grandchildren may someday live better. But we can also have a quicker way, respected colleagues, colleagues. And the quicker way is where we've put up a history long ago, it's the end of the 90s. The year we missed the first major foreign investment in Slovenia. The biggest investment, which I have to admit today, is the hair on my head, in Maribor after the failed Tam entry of BMW, before the entry of the investor Audi, when they did not take them seriously, as you know, Audi went to Hungary to the town of Győr and set up a company there, he also received strong tax reliefs, even I think no taxes for the next few years. Today they make high-tech engines and even make up engines for most of the audios. In Hungary, they consist of Audi A3, as you know, a complete series of TT, TTRS and so on, and employ thousands and thousands of people. In addition, a number of these people who are employed in Audi, kindergartens, shops. Audi is then linked to a whole range of small suppliers, from those who care about food to those who produce certain rubber products, plastic products and so on. I mean, this is the short road that we can still experience, respected colleagues and colleagues, and foreign investment, foreign capital, which is why we have reduced this tax. It was a tactic to take a step, two steps back, so that we can take three or five steps forward in the next ten years. But why was there no foreign investment? Look, at this step, there are still some systems and subsystems in this country that don't work. Why do we always talk about a judicial system that doesn't work? I am not talking now about a case that has taken place in political processes, we are now talking about economic disputes. Why we're saying that certain ministries don't do well to have so-called, I call it, green socialists. When such undertakings are placed in a room, they take years and years for certain decisions they issue. On the other hand, if Audi decides today to enter Slovenia, with our school system, with a large number of high school graduates, with the whole fleet of FDV, when these graduates do not bring anything that is literally without usable knowledge on the market, we do not have these investments. So we need a low tax on the income of legal persons to be interested in capital, we need engineers, techniques, machine techniques, electrotechnics. If we also want from our institutes the quality of the knowledge that we have and is particularly in the field of mechanics, in the field of bionics, in the field of nanotechnology, all that we have developed, in what we have invested years and years, then we need low taxes, especially for foreign companies that are coming. Of course, we need a serious judicial system, we need a serious judicial system, we need a serious school system that will allow these companies to have human resources pools here that can enter businesses immediately and also all other benefits. We must be kind to foreign investments, to foreign capital. We're stuck on this road with these tycoons, too. We realize that where it's not, you can't own something if you don't have your own capital and then the whole thing goes through credit, exhaustion, not investing in development and so on. This is our story for the past 15 years, when we have completely remained, respected colleagues and colleagues. What did we do now? The government has undertaken a mini-tax reform, and if one of these multinationals comes here, it will not bring development. Not with this mini-tax reform. Because, I'm sorry, I believe it pays you 2,3 000 euros a lot, but in the company where I worked, 5,6 000 euros a net salary, not a gross salary, it doesn't mean a big income, let's say, for one development engineer. And look, we still have more than 50% taxed. Here in this mini tax reform, between 34% and 39% are hidden a whole range of better paid public servants who will now receive this money. Not so many top engineers that we may not have, who have specific knowledge, as Igor Akrapovich once said, must bring them from abroad because they want at least €5.6,000 net salary, they are all 50%. Look, the Ministry didn't do anything on this road. Here I agree with all the subjects you doubt. After all, this is now a key problem, that is, the conclusion of complete problems, that is to take people and give them to a country that acts intransparency and waste. This money will go to agencies, hundreds of institutions in Slovenia, for bad roads, for non-transparent public procurement and procedures. This money will go to a school system that produces at least high school and high school personnel that no one in the world needs. 70% of this staff needs no one, dear colleagues and colleagues, and that's it. And these companies, even when they enter, have no relief. I came back from Hamburg last week, I was in Berlin right in front of companies with over a billion cash flow. Many investments in their latest technologies are available, making it easier on the whole line, any new technology comes, so that the trendesters are in their industry. And look, we're getting further away, we're living in some post-socialist paradise, and we think the world is judging around us. And we're about to be a complete robbery, some imaginary country where everyone will make circuits and no one will ever come to this country again. And that's the problem, that's the time we're missing, respected colleagues and colleagues. You're talking about workers, about exploiting workers. Why is everyone running to Germany, Austria, Switzerland, tell me why if this socialist model of yours works? Why has no one ever fled to socialist countries? I've said it once before, and I've discussed it many times. Why you like to use iPads like that, you use antibiotics and everything else, if all this was created in capitalism, where there was fair competition. It was all there. And respected colleagues and colleagues, the sum of these reforms, or if you don't like to hear the word reform, I will say modernisation, it helps us to get foreign investments, but we need this stability for at least 10 years. We need a small corporate tax, we respect a serious school system that will adapt to the economy. We need a good judicial system that will react quickly. And we need other infrastructure – from telecommunications infrastructure to road, rail infrastructure. This is the task of the state, and you should be doing the best you can here. However, the economic part must be left to the market, and people who make decisions on a daily basis must be left to themselves. With such solutions, which the Government is showing today through the Ministry of Finance, we are giving signals to the market, to the European market and to the global markets. We give signals that we don't know how to go big stories and that we'll never reach these stories, I'm increasingly skeptical, in our lives probably not. Here we're going to have a fight, and in the end there are three quarters of the socialists themselves, sorry when I listen to some people who are supposed to be liberal, that's all socialist. [[…]] We need serious capitalism, this third generation, the fourth generation, which has given results, which can also seriously finance the social state, solutions that operate on the market, which have always worked and produced results that have given prosperity to people, gave quality life. Those who have a quality life will most often also have a higher age and everything else, live happily ever after, walk with joy to work, to work, and so on. I've been through all this myself. I speak of this for hours and hours in Parliament, and I believe that it may touch you a little. This is now the problem that we have — on the one hand, money, burden, and give to people who do not contribute much for prosperity, and on the other hand we take it to companies that could invest in their development, as my colleague Tonin said earlier. Above all, we are signaling that in Slovenia foreign investors are necessarily evil, that we do not want them and that we will be alone. Let me finish my debate – we don't want a foreign one, but we have nothing. This is the essence of this mini tax reform, which is the essence of this law that we are currently discussing, the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The continuation of such a policy in these situations, where all our competing countries, the Czech Republic, Poland, also Croatia, which is in the European Union, are attracting foreign investors in other ways, meaning that we will slowly turn off the lights in the medium term. Today, in 2016, late September, I hope that this will remain in the magnetogram and you will remember. Total ignorance of the world's situation, macroeconomic conditions in the world and the search for always some quasi-socialist models of solutions, particularly some macroeconomic solutions through socialist models. Our history is what I was talking about today, and that's not enough foreign investment, but we don't have our own capital. All the stories of foreign investment coming from Russia, we know, no knowledge, no social network, all that was coming, went to hotel chains, to tourism, all the investments were mostly inherited. We do not just need the money that comes with foreign investment, with knowledge in the sectors, which is urgently needed, the social capital that these foreign multinational companies have around the world have. And this then multiplies the great economic growth and, consequently, the well-being of the people, our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members, Members, Minister and Secretary of State, welcome! Currently, we have a third law under consideration from the so-called package of so-called mini-tax reforms, namely the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. I do not agree with this law alone solely for one reason – because you raise the tax on profits. The Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal to deal with the parent committee was to reduce the tax to 15%, as already adopted in 2012, and then in 2013 the government of Alenka Bratušek stopped this gradual tax reduction. Since we cannot table a different amendment at this time, we have proposed that this provision should not apply until 2019. Why? Because we are counting on another government to have a slightly different view of the country's economic policy. Why do I support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party? Because I think it's the only way. The economy needs to be unloaded, not burdened. You are very eager to boast about economic growth, of course the exporters are the most responsible for it. They're economists. And these economists, last but not least, in this annex, you can see that they do not agree with this proposal of yours to impose additional burdens on them. State Secretary Bozič said that the economy is also growing successfully thanks to this government. He has already had the question of how the measures of this government are successfully growing the economy. However, I am also interested in how much good the situation in foreign markets contributes to our largest partners, such as Germany and the like. Is it not right here that exporters can do well because they have knowledge and have adapted to the market and are therefore successful and are driving our economic growth? And it is these economists who do not agree with this proposal. You are at the expense of small cosmetic adjustments of the Income Act, which of course goes in the right direction, but it is small changes, you have taken away those who create, and who must work well, otherwise would not make a profit. And that's a completely flawed concept. Here, however, we see one fundamental difference between policies. True, the right option is to lower taxes. It advocates a decommissioning of the economy. It advocates that the public sector is primarily an economic service, so that it can work freely and successfully on the market. While on the left hand side, companies would burden as much as they could. It's more than obvious, given that you want to raise a profit tax, which is positively unacceptable. It has been said that we need a stable and predictable tax environment. That's exactly what we agree on. And it is true that if we look after years of what happened to the profit tax itself, we can say that each year it fell slightly. But the changes were basically twice. One was tax reform in 2006, as the first changes were, of course, applied for 2007, but at the time it was said that the profit tax was gradually falling from 25% to the target 20% in the first phase in 2010. And that means a predictable environment for some entrepreneurs. They knew what would happen to them from the point of view of profit tax in the future. The second amendment was made in 2012, in the second Janšev government. A gradual reduction was again said, namely the first year to 18% and then every year to the target 15%. Then came the government of Alenka Bratušek, which stopped this gradual reduction by one percentage point at 17%. And now you want to pick it up again. I personally feel that this is completely unacceptable and wrong. Let's let the economy breathe! If we have a good economy, especially a good private sector, not the part of a state-owned economy, then we will also have more taxes in the budget itself, VAT taxes and others. And people will have jobs. Try harder to increase employment in this work, not in the public sector, what you are doing. Really. I would like to ask for the reply of the Secretary of State, who is the government's actions, which make the economy grow well. I believe that economists too would like to hear why they are doing well now, what has been changed at this stage. I truly regret that some people would rather see that companies, even those companies operating in Slovenia, would move out of this country. It is very difficult to listen to some of the debates in this National Assembly. As a matter of fact, I don't support this law. I, of course, support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Believe me, I honestly did not intend to advertise and this was simply because I somehow tried to present our position in the position of the Desus Group clearly and visually, including some comparisons with comparable countries in the world or Europe. Then, somehow, the whole discussion follows, the position and the debate revolves solely on the point of 2% nominal corporate income tax rise. And there are some other solutions, but since they're obviously not at issue in this marriage, I'm not going to touch that either. I can't do anything, but I don't want to be patronizing, I don't want to give a summary or a resume, but obviously this law is extremely good, because on the one hand, it is obvious to the proposer that he is not brave enough to raise the tax rate even more – so intimately, I would like to see a percentage more – and on the other hand, it is once again too little courage, because we are even increasing the 2% tax on the income of legal persons who have fallen in the last few years from 25 to 17, nominally speaking, and it is effective 12 and a half. We still have a whole bunch of reliefs that the economy is taking advantage of. I believe that for this debate I will not wish for some bonus points in the management of the Chamber of Commerce and I do not expect any positive points, but I do not need them. But I, as a Member and as a member of Desus, am thinking in this direction that we should not actually burden ourselves, that we should not give any artificial obstacles to the economy, that we should not equate, that I cannot find a better word, and that I will just use it, that corrupt capitalists who exploit employees, and that they are equalized and placed in the same basket with those good owners of companies who are trying and working to make profit, income that remains in business, that is to say, that employees are being educated and so on. Last but not least, we must not forget the 20-year-old measure, when we reduced the contribution to health and social security on the employer's side. There have been some measures in the past and some measures are still today because we are helping the economy. In the end, my dears, I do not understand the mathematics, the equations by which some would like to collect nothing or almost nothing to collect, the practical nothing in the budget to bring, while the apostolic stops, which says that we are a social state, also to develop social and provide compensation to the unemployed, for social benefits, maternity benefits, child nutrition and so on. I don't understand this math, so that we don't pick anything up, put a little stress on who we can. I would like to, too, and on the other hand we would like to have a social state, but not a poor one between us, which is no good to anyone. Unfortunately, we are not the Middle East, unfortunately in Tezn or in Tabor or in Pobreje in Maribor, oil does not flow out of the ground and it is only wise to go to this policy to relatively little pick up and give relatively much. I believe we'll make it this way. This set, I'm getting a little nervous about the mini tax reform, the set of amendments to these three laws, I think it's on the right track and we'll continue and we'll think about it where the burdens are needed. But here I believe that we will see what this change is going to be 2%, effective of course much less, that we understand each other, and then we will also think in the direction of maybe some percentage point that things are still being corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you for saying one last time in this debate. I'd start with a few short replicas. My colleague Horvat from New Slovenia showed that he does not really understand what a profit tax is. He said the tax on profit is a tax that chokes, because it prevents the owner from investing. Instead of investing a surplus, the owner must pay it as a tax to the State. Of course that's not true. The profit tax is a tax that remains after the company has already carried out its investment activity and the logic is quite reversed. The higher this tax, the more entrepreneurs, capital owners are stimulated to invest because they are less paid to withdraw money from the company in the form of profits. So the profit tax is also in a purely private sense a tax that supports investments, not the other way around. The second thing I want to say is that the argument the Ministry is using is that we will not be competitive if we increase the tax, as in the United Left, to 22%. This is still below the European average of 22.6%. But look again at the basic numbers. In all the surrounding countries, the tax is higher. We're 17 at the moment. The government wants to raise to 19, we say 22. In Austria they have a 25 % tax, in Italy 27, in Germany almost 30, in Belgium 33, in France 38. These are the countries from which investments in Slovenia come. Would they be uncompetitive if we increased the tax to 22%, which is 10% below Belgium's level. They wouldn't be. However, we could get €90 million in the budget, which we can use for development projects. This €90 million will help the growth of the Slovenian economy and development more significantly in the public treasury than leaving it to the private sector. Here I do not agree, but this is my final replica, with France Breznik, who says that if we put this money in a public register, it will go through various institutions, it will be spent in an unproductive way, and then it stresses that private companies should be the ones investing and developing new technologies. He mentioned antibiotics and Apple, among other things, and now I'm going to deny him at both points. In the case of antibiotics, if you read their history, you will find that the first antibiotic found by Fleming was developed by chance, but the mass production of antibiotics started only after the war when serious public investment in this industry started and when serious publicly supported antibiotics began. Public funds have really developed antibiotics. Next, if we look at Apple, which he listed as another case. On Bloomberg, which is not exactly a socialist medium, as Franz Breznik would say, you have an article entitled, if I translate it, Who created the IPhone – Apple or the country? This article clearly shows not only the history of Apple, where it is first emphasized that Apple was developed from a small enterprise in the medium and then much with huge public support. Secondly, all the essential technologies that have contributed to the development of IPhon and IPada were developed through public research and the product itself received public subsidies from the US government. Public investment has thus played a key role here. This article, or book by economist Mariana Macukato, shows even more. This is that all these new technologies, previously mentioned by Franz Breznik, are created by the Internet, biotechnology, electronics, nanotechnology, are developed worldwide by public means. It writes in this book that from 1971 onwards, about 90 of the most important technological innovations have been developed through public funding. Public funds, public investments are key to the development of not only the Slovenian economy, but also to the development of any economy and progress in general. Therefore, once again, the higher rate of profit tax is a development measure and the lower rate of profit tax is, as I said in the introductory address, low productivity and poor pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Can we finish this slowly? Is there any other desire to discuss it? Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u128	Yeah, look, you just need to know a little bit about the history of technology, study a little bit, and then you can talk. First thing. Apple. Did this occur in socialism? That's what I'm talking about, buddy moon. Come on, please! They had to make a transistor first. Do you know where this came from? PMP, NPN and then they went to the transistor, then Intel made the first processor 4001.Maybe you already heard, 4-bit, then they went to 8 bits, 16 bits. [[Incomprehensible]] Then Motorola made 68,000 so-called processors. Then things started to get smaller. Then came Commodore's first computer. Then they had to make LCD displays. Then we went to LED technology, so called Light Emitting Diode and so on. So a set of all the inventions, minimised and special techniques led us to even get to the first mobile phones, and the continuation of all of these were so-called smart phones and the rest of the entire software industry that followed. And as they say today, where the Software has escaped Hardware. Dear colleague, none of this has arisen in socialism. And one more thing. The collapse of the Soviet Union was conditioned by the fact that they had to buy everything at the cabin in the west, and Reagan said, "No, you won't buy any more, not high energy, not microprocessors, not anything." Then time hit them. Speaking of socialism. Have you ever been to Cuba? I've been there for a month. Public health. Do you know what public health is like in Cuba? Your tooth hurts and you go to the first dentist and you pop your teeth out. It's public health that doesn't hurt you anymore. Catastrophe. That's to be known. I'm talking about projects that work. Of course, they were public investments. And sometimes you're right. Only public investment in capitalism and alongside relief for businesses. We forget that. And now we have a stick for corporate and foreign investments, and we're hitting it, and there's no root in the back. Yeah, I agree with the work, but the back has to be a relief. What are the benefits of companies with us? What kind of investments? What kind of technology? Can they also give part of their reliefs for so - called business angels? Can they invest as some kind of capital for start-up? Do they receive great reliefs, as they do in America and Germany? They don't have that, dear colleagues. This is your vicious socialist circle. And when I listen to these discussions — what do we have? We have knowledge, but we do not know how to get it into final products and services. What's the point of Germany? Why do we have a school system? We have him for someone to come and say, "I'm a graduate organizer, I'm a master and I'm a doctor." They have added value – sociologists in the development of brands, even nature and science and technology, to technologies that lead to final products and products. This is what ultimately gives prosperity, which gives jobs that are stable, which have a high added value to this intense production, and this is the whole story of this capitalism that I am talking about. But the problem is, you don't see it. The problem is, you don't see it and you don't understand. You come here and vote for some solutions that never worked and destroy the future for young generations and for old people and also pensioners, because if young people are no longer employed, if they don't have added value, if we don't have as many engineers, technicians and everything else, even older people won't be able to have big pensions. More contributions will be made, more than will be paid by contributions. This is the whole story of this macro economy, which is actually very simple. All you have to do is understand it, my respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Master Marko Pogačnik, it's time. I'm sorry. Thank you very much. We can finish this slowly. Thank you. Then I conclude the debate on the amendment. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate the fourth item of the agenda and the 22nd meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 15.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u130	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is Mandating-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision approving the mandate of the Member and the proposal for a decision on the exercise of the post of Member instead of a Member acting as Secretary of State. Mag. Mr Lilliani Kozlović terminated his term of office on 23 September 2016 and Mr Tilen Bozič was appointed Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance and therefore, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member of State as long as he serves as Secretary of State. The National Election Commission has therefore forwarded to the National Assembly the decision to become a Member of the National Assembly for the remainder of the term of office, Mrs Vlasta Počak, and to conclude that Mrs Tej Ljubič is a Member of the National Assembly at the time of his resignation. The conclusions of the State Election Commission were considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the working body of the State, which reported in writing to the Assembly. The report is published on the e-club. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues, colleagues, two freshly baked incoming colleagues! I would just like to say, on behalf of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, of course, we will confirm the vote for the two proposed mandates, and I wish both colleagues happy, all the good things in the second house that you will meet from today until the end of this term. And I believe and I hope it goes even further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u132	Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? No, no, no. Then we turn to the vote on the proposals for conclusions. First of all, we vote on the following proposal for a decision: Confirm the sent-out mandate of the Vlasta Pocak, born 6. 12. 1950, resident Bazovica road 10, Kozina. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We also vote on the following motion for a decision: Until Member Tillen Bozič, acting as State Secretary, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, is able to act as a Member, he shall act in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members as of today, Tej Ljubič, born 31. 12. 1987, resident Maple 17, Maple. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite my fellow Members to join us and meet with their seats. I wish my colleagues to be successful in their parliamentary duties and, of course, we sincerely congratulate them. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of mags. Irene Žagar to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Ionika Marflak Trontel, representative of the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u133	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in the last six years, the number of Supreme Judges has decreased significantly. The Labour and Social Section of this Court currently consists of only four judges who are all specialised in the field of labour law. Therefore, in order to ensure a further quality part of this section, with particular emphasis on the social field, it was necessary to place a vacancy. There's a mag on the invitation. Irena Žagar, Senior Judge at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, elected by the Council of Justice and proposed to the National Assembly for appointment. Mag. Irena Žagar graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana in 1976 and obtained the scientific title mag at the same university in 2004. legal sciences in the field of labour law and social security law. The career began in the institutions of healthcare and insurance, the judicial function of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana in 1999. In 2001, she was appointed Head of the Social Affairs Department in this court. This leadership function took place until the end of 2007. As it met the conditions for faster progress, it was appointed in 2008 in the case-law of the higher judge. It is worth noting, however, that its candidacy has been unanimously supported by the Judges of the Labour and Social Section of the Supreme Court and that the Court of First Instance represents an instance to the administrative authorities as it carries out judicial control of administrative decisions. In the decision of the Council of Justice, it was considered to be a mag. Irena Žagar is a top expert in social security and health care and insurance, who is also involved in scientific research in addition to her outstanding commitment to the judicial profession. It is therefore proposed by the Council of Justice to the National Assembly for appointment to the post of Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u134	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. There are no applications for discussion. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Irene Žagar to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present and 52 votes against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a Advocate General. The proposal for appointment was tabled by the Government. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal for appointment, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u135	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As the mandate of the former Advocate General of State has expired, the Ministry of Justice is 1. On 4 this year, an invitation to tender for the vacant seat of the Advocate General of State has been issued following an official duty. Four candidates or candidates applied for the seat. Under the law, only a person who is already a state's attorney can run for office. All applied candidates and candidates have also attached to their applications the programmes of the State Defence Department and the vision for the development of this body. All registered candidates met the formal conditions for appointment as laid down in the Law on State Defence. All candidates were also interviewed before a special commission of the Ministry of Justice. On the basis of the tender documentation, the work presented so far, the programme and the work visions presented, and on the basis of an evaluation of the interview before the commission at the Ministry of Justice, the Government assessed that the best candidate for the post of Advocate General of the Republic of Slovenia, Master Yuri Groznik. That is why the Government has also proposed it for appointment. Master Groznik is a professional state attorney. He's been doing this job for over sixteen years. It is aware of the need for changes in the representation of the financial and legal interests of the country in front of domestic and foreign forums. On the basis of its proposed work programme and the discussion before the Commission, it can reasonably be concluded that it is well aware of the functioning of the State defence, its weaknesses and its positive aspects, that it has the expected personal and professional abilities, integrity and energy to carry out this function, as well as the vision for necessary changes and reforms. In the light of the above, the Government is 1. 9. Adopted the decision to propose to the National Assembly the appointment of Master Jury Groznik as Advocate General of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u136	There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Master Yuri Groznik as Advocate General for six years. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 51 were voted against and no one was present. [[For the vote 51]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income by Emergency Procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 27. 9. 2016, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 23. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. With the government's income reform, 7.4% of the best paid in this country will receive a tax gift of €56 million. It's an antisocial policy. This is a policy that goes hand in hand before we currently have 70 000 people in Slovenia on social support of EUR 288 per month and, on the other hand, the government, which instead of helping them, gives tax exemptions to the richest. Let's say with this concrete one, managers with 10,000 euros of gross wages will get 2 000 400 euros a year. In the United Left, we do not support and advocate a different policy, that is to help the poor first and that this is a clear priority for the government and the government. With our amendment, we are trying to get this most antisocial note of income reform, which is ahead of us – says lower income for the richest – to postpone to 2019 to gain two years for a serious discussion of what income reform Slovenia is using and what income reform would be so socially fair and developmental productive on the other hand. In view of this reform, which we now have on the table, we will not achieve either one goal or another, it says neither social justice nor development. We accept it practically overnight following an emergency procedure for which there is no need. In the United Left we propose, and this is the content of our amendment to move the matter to 2019 and to discuss, in two years, three, as far back as possible, what would really be good for the social justice and development of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u138	Ms Vojka Shergan has an explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. We will not support the proposed amendment of the United Left to the Modern Centre Party, because we do not see the point of delaying the tax reform or the Income Law because it would not achieve the objective of decommissioning the most successful staff in businesses, in order to improve the business environment and to relieve the rewards for workers who achieve added value. That's why we won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u140	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. I've been listening to this SMC argument, and I've been listening all day to some basic logical "spuro" to find in these debates, but I have to say that I don't really find them. Most of what is listed here will not be achieved by this restructuring. As far as I know, apart from some interpolation, we do not have a state of emergency, and in such a state, when macroeconomic indicators show us relatively well, the last thing we can do is accept tax changes under the emergency procedure. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour of our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u142	We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, 10 for them and 65 for them. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 65.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleague and colleague! We have already said in the debate, and this time I inform the government that it cannot count on the support of New Slovenia, both in this novel of the Income Act and in the whole tax troika. You're calling it a mini-tax reform. Those of us who were in addition to Bajuk's tax reform can say that this mini-tax reform is not even R since the reform. Bajuk's tax reform has burdened citizens because, at the end of the day, we are just and only citizens of those who pay taxes for about one billion euros. While, practically for two calendar years, we have even balanced the country's budget and reduced the country's debt to a minimum. These are, ladies and gentlemen, reforms. We expected the amendment of the Income Law to take the problem of income more seriously with migrant workers. There is virtually no trace of this solution. Our amendment, which proposed raising the general relief to €7,000, was simply driven by the coalition. This is not a tax reform, this is a tax translation. See, if I am reading a report on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia between January and June 2016, then I can make a projection so that, at the end of this year, income tax and corporate income tax will be collected for about 50 million more. If I add an additional burden on the economy with EUR 60 million, which will bring in the corporate tax law, we are at about 110 million or 106 million, which the government says will be a less revenue inflow in the following year because the income scale is changing. You talk about social partners, and I feel increasingly that employers, that the economy is eliminated from this social partnership and more or less remains only a socialist partnership. As far as the payload is concerned, you have not listened to our solutions. These are the solutions the economy wanted, we talked about Christmas months ago and so on. We expected that the recovery would also be possible in cases where the business performance was paid in shorter periods, i.e. monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, with the employer setting the amount of the payment at the annual level. So don't count on our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u144	Ms Vojka Shergan has an explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. The Income Act is a real step towards decommissioning the economy. The structure of taxes in Slovenia is unfavourable and therefore this tax restructuring is of paramount importance and will be a good traveller to the economy in the following year or years. That's why we're going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u146	The explanation of vote on behalf of the United Left Group shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u147	We will not support this marriage, but the reasons are as follows. Firstly, if we look at the effects of this law, there will be no economic growth, as domestic consumption will in fact not increase with a gift for the most powerful. They are the most likely target group to invest this money in foreign securities or to purchase foreign luxury goods, so the economic activity in Slovenia, with the addition of managers, will not be any higher. Secondly, the budget will be cut by €56 million, which is about 15 million more than the cost of annual financing for the construction of the second track. It is said that instead of investing in the second track that Slovenia needs, and I think that even all the parties agree on it, we will spend money on some gift to those who least need it in this country. Thirdly, the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy will not increase. The Slovenian economy is already very competitive, we have a 7.9% surplus of the balance of payments in the last 12 months, which is, by the way, even more than European rules allow us, the Maastricht criteria allow 6%, we are 2% over this. I don't see why this would be a problem that should be addressed in the first place. Furthermore, the finance ministry ensured that such an income reform would result in a restructuring of the Slovenian economy, so that the average salary would be higher, but unfortunately not. We have seen similar experiments in many parts of Eastern Europe, but instead of creating well-paid jobs, the countries have previously turned backward because they have impoverished their budgets. We therefore find this measure unsocial and developmentally flawed and will vote against it. At the same time, we regret that our amendment has not been adopted to give at least a serious debate on what kind of income and tax policy would be appropriate for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u148	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Nobody. The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you for saying that again. It seems we need to speak more precisely. This is not a translation, as they said in Novi Slovenije. If there was a translation, then there would not be an estimated €60 million deficit on the revenue side of the budget, because aggregates, when calculated this year, would of course be slightly higher. If we go beyond populism, what is the economy? Slovenia is not a tax haven and we do not create GDP through derivatives, but the economy is people who work – in Slovenia mainly in the export economy, in the manufacturing sector and partly in services. This restructuring, if not reform, has in fact forgotten those and those who work and create in this society and country. That's why I'm voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u150	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 60.7 votes against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act by Emergency Procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 27. 9. 2016, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 71. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 20, 52 votes against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 51.1 votes against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons by Emergency Procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading and the decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 27. 9. 2016, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 19, 57 votes against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 6. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 20, 55 votes against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you. Last time I heard from you. In the United Left, we will be held in this law, not because we would object to raising taxes on profits, but because we think the ministry has taken a modest step here. In Slovenia we are in the last place on the basis of the rate of profit tax and in the last place after effective capital taxation, according to how much tax we actually collect. It is therefore clear that sparrows on the roof are already snorkeling about this, that capital in Slovenia is undertaxed and that much more decisive steps would be needed here than merely to raise the profit tax from 17% to 19%. If we just look at the countries by which this government likes to model, we have a 25% tax rate in Austria, in Germany almost 30, in Belgium 33, in France even 38. And these are the countries from which the investments in Slovenia come, so that if we went along with our proposal in the United Left to raise the rate to roughly European average, that is 22%, this would in no way harm Slovenian competitiveness, and in this way we would gain €90 million in public treasury, which could be used for the social and development projects I spoke about earlier. This would be significantly better for the development of the country, significantly better for the social picture of this society, but unfortunately we have not been heard again, so we will not object to this tax rising and we are not satisfied with the height of the increase. Our vote here is abstention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u152	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u153	The New Slovenia Group will oppose the law imposing an additional 60 million burden on the economy. It seems unacceptable to us that we are burdening the economy again, that part of the economic body or that part of the money in the economy being used for development. Without development, our economy will not produce new better products, it will not create new services, without which there will be no sales and no jobs without sale. Since we do not want to endanger future jobs in New Slovenia, it will not be our votes, but our votes will be against. I would also like to point out that the economy has stressed that this tax alone has been competitive in terms of comparison with other European countries. It was in place, such that Slovenia could compete with other countries in this area, but it was not the lowest. By comparison, let me say that Bulgaria has a 10% or Ireland has a 12.5% tax rate. We are moving away from a good position again, which we cannot accept, so today our votes will go against.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u154	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u155	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will not support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We won't support them for a number of reasons. We are convinced that the increase in corporate income tax means that the economy will become even more uncompetitive. We are also convinced that the additional burden on the economy for 2% of the points also means the burden on employees. We are convinced that this move, the decision of the coalition, SMC, SD and Desusa represents a significantly smaller competitive position for Slovenian companies. The fact is that Slovenia currently has one of the smallest numbers, European, foreign investments. There is a fear that multinationals with representations in Slovenia will decide to withdraw elsewhere. The fact is that quite a number of foreign investors have decided to withdraw from Slovenia in the last period. These are, in particular, smaller representations, which bring well-paid jobs, which bring better consumption. We would expect anything other than that the coalition, which boasts outside economic growth, is burdening the economy and entrepreneurs again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u156	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u157	We're not going to support this marriage either. Not because the 19% tax rate would be too high, but because the tax environment needs to be stabilised in Slovenia. In all the documents we have sent to Brussels in recent years, we have written that we will not change that. The tax environment and tax stability are one of the most important things for investors. And how do they know that we've changed this law six times in the last 10 years. Step up, step down, ease in, ease out. This is not how tax policy is managed. The fact is that such a law does not lead to new jobs, does not lead to development and does not lead to a better future. Tax laws do not change from day to day or from month to month, but they should be carefully led to at least some medium-term period. After all, we will, or in this way, reduce the profits that could otherwise be earmarked for new jobs. Once again, tax stability should be a guide, not just this government, but some of them. Things don't work tomorrow and things don't change that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u158	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Then I ask you to sign up because there are at least two for reasons in your own name. Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against it because higher corporate income tax means lower wages for workers because higher corporate income tax means lower dividends, because higher tax means less jobs because higher tax means less money for development, for technological development for businesses. Sometimes someone speaks or does some rhetorical structures and says that corporations pay taxes, not people. In the final stage, and it's always so that people and only people are the ones who pay taxes. These are really manipulations with rhetorical structures. The burden of each tax is borne by man, not by some abstract entity corporation d. d., corporation d. o. o. And that is why I will vote against it because the higher corporate income tax also means fewer investors in Slovenia. With 1. 1. 2017, when this tax comes into force, we in Novi Slovenija are confident that Slovenia will be an even more closed country for investors, foreign investors. We're already too closed, as far as foreign investment is concerned. This law actually contributes further to less foreign investment, fewer jobs, less development and less prosperity in that country. So I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u160	Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. A corporate income tax raise does not mean an additional burden on the economy, but it does mean raising the tax burden on capital that can by means of smart investments, by maintaining a social state that can raise domestic consumption, in fact underpins and induces the economy. We already have a three billion surplus in the current balance of payments account, so that the created wealth is sufficient, it is only unfairly allocated. In this context, the tax on the income of legal persons is increased from 17% to 19% of the spit in the sea. For this reason, we will not oppose this law in the United Left, nor can we support it. What would be only fair is that capital contributes at a rate of 22%, such as the average at European Union level, or even more, for example, almost 30%, as in Germany, or my personal preference for a 38% tax on the income of legal persons such as France.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u162	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. I'd like to appeal to you again to talk to me in detail. Most of this debate is going on like, I don't know, we need to talk more about the burning of the beech trees, there's some logic, you know, whether the moisture is in the air or not, how dry the seasons are and so on. The minister herself admitted that she was effective at 17%, so I'm going to use her word seized, 11.4, 11.5. With a two-percent raise, we will arrive at 12.85 at the same level of relief, and in practice I think it will be a little lower. If we were seriously discussing a tax reform, we would also be seriously discussing investment facilitation after all. Dear colleague Tonin, there is no need for all the profits to go into investment, which we have already witnessed too many times in this society and country. But it's more loving to kind of shoot a rope and some flossules about the man on the left and right. After all, we collect taxes and we need them for people, not for some abstract entities or how Mr Horvat has expressed himself. But it's a troll-ball, that's not a debate. Abstinence.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u164	We're at the voice point. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We don't want the socialist reform of the Foreigner, we don't want to give our own, it's redefined now. Now we don't want the Foreigner, we don't have our own, and we'll never have one. That is the point, we can say the final product of such a homework as the government has given it. Therefore, the only tax reform would be a reduction in the costs of the state and public apparatus, i.e. reduced costs of the state. On this basis, there should be a number of reforms, first in public administration, later in the school system, then tax reforms could take place. They didn't do it because they're afraid of cutting into their electoral base. Last but not least, three-quarters of Parliament is essentially coming from the public administration, and now they have raised their salaries through the income scale, so that when they go back to their jobs, they will have higher salaries. Foreign capital will not come to Slovenia. I told the general debate today why not. Now we have made it clear that we are raising the tax on the income of legal persons, do not come to us, we are an isolated country, and we want to live with low added value, with high-intensity industries, we want to live as after the war, so we are doing a lot, we are doing little, and in the end we have little of it. This is the result of a socialist policy under a quasi-liberal party, and this is a misunderstanding of macroeconomics. If our ultimate goal is to have more, we must open ourselves to the world, to foreign capital and reduce this tax. As you know, this will result and I will therefore also vote against you destroying the future for many generations of our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u166	Master Matthew Tonin has an explanation of the voice in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u167	This law must be opposed, not only because it places an additional EUR 60 million of burden on the economy, but also because it is not fair. On the one hand, the economy will be additionally burdened and, on the other hand, it will be extensively reinvested if you want to use this term in the public sector. I said that only during the time of the Government of Mira Cerar, about 4 000 employees in the public sector have increased, which means EUR 20 million of annual higher costs, if you add to this the elimination of the public sector's compression payment scale, you get 70 million combined. It is worth 50 million plus 20 million, totaling 70 million Euros of additional burdens due to the public sector. Domestically, this means that the 70 million we will give to the public sector will be hung on the shoulders of the economy. I find this to be unfair and unfair, and that is why this law must be rejected. If it were a terrible crisis and if there were no other options and resources, then I'd understand you. But when austerity measures are released for some, the pressure of the crisis is released, so that we can do it to someone else, we put an extra burden on others, it is simply not fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u168	Mr Branko Zorman has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of this law. A colleague from the opposition, who has also declared himself a macro-economicist today, which I did not know was, explained about some socialism and I suppose some nebulos. And it's right to know that this didn't fly to our client, but probably to another part of the opposition, to the United Left. I will also vote for this because the approach taken by, for example, by the SDS in the past is not the right one. Our government must now face the situation as it is in the economy and deal with it. Let me just read what their amendment was like, so you know what I'm talking about and why I'm going to vote for. They propose to maintain the applicable rate by 1 January 2019 and by then the new government will be able to decide on this issue. That was the problem with previous governments leaving things unresolved and putting them in some future. Since both employers and employees have voted in favour of tax reform, the government has put forward a proposal, such as the so-called mini-tax reform, and I believe that it is going in the right direction, since, on the one hand, it is essentially burdening the taxation of work where this tax is above average and at the same time increases the capital burden, where we have been proven, as has already been said in the debate today, the average of this burden. Finally, it must be said that all the incentives for investment, research and development remain unchanged, so that the fear of investors, as they wish to show on that side, is absolutely superfluous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u170	Dr. Franz Duck has a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all, it would be nice for Mr Beznik to apologize, for Mr Breznik has made it very clear that SMC does not manage macroeconomics. My procedural proposal would, however, be, when it comes to talking about how average it is, mean to say which average you mean. Because that's how we're going to talk a little more seriously about anything. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u172	Again, I would like to point out that we are at the point of explanation of the voice and not of the debate for which very much time has been available and very much of the unused time. Since I've seen there's still an interest in explaining my voice, I'm reopening my application. Please sign up. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. I will vote against it, of course, because whoever claims to be 2% small, this has never seen in their lives from close to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are also the engine of the modern economy in Slovenia, how they fight for every step, for every euro, for every further breakthrough in the market, for every additional job, to open it up, how they live from month to month, to expand, to strengthen, to open up new jobs. This simply does not understand that it is those who create the welfare of the country, and it is the only one who creates a foundation that is lasting, which is solid and on which it is possible to build a country in the long term. Everything else leads only to debt, which then ends in failure, belt tightening, sooner or later with problems. And because of that, ladies and gentlemen, 2% is huge. This can distinguish a functioning entrepreneur from having to close the company. With some nonsense already accepted by the Left Coalition in Parliament, from the tax registers ahead, you have caused the closure in Slovenia of tens of thousands of companies, that tens of thousands of entrepreneurs have returned Espeia and everything else. And they ended up in the country's rough mother country, and they'd say, in fact, on taxpayers, on exactly those entrepreneurs that are already overloaded and you're putting extra burden on them. And that's why we have to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u174	Is there any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 20 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 8th item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 19th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation to ensure the independent and impartial functioning of RTV Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a recommendation to ensure the independent and impartial functioning of RTV Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u175	Your Honor! Where recommendations on RTV Slovenia can be subject to controversy such as we have witnessed in this House, the question of what is wrong in this country is raised. We have heard that some seriously disturbs the fact that the RTV Slovenia Act contains provisions requiring the reporting of plurality to implement the constitutional principle of the exercise of the right to information, whereby everyone has the right to be informed, in an accessible manner, of all relevant events, of all the salaries of social life illuminated by different angles. To respect the principles of journalistic ethics, to verify and publish a correct and comprehensive report. That's a terrible distraction. Not just here. What was even more surprising was that in the debate it also bothered many people on RTV Slovenia. That, ladies and gentlemen, raises many questions. Of course, it becomes logical to put this in the light of events that we have witnessed in the past months, when, for example, on a website without the consent of an individual there are certain claims, some integration into a group, then that side disappears, the whole site disappears before, and the whole page disappears, and three weeks after that RTV Slovenia publishes a huge broadcast in the most watched TV diary where it is compared to everything, only man is not, because he was involved somewhere without his own knowledge. What do you call it? It's a dirty lie, isn't it? Yeah, sorry, some people would call it press freedom. Freedom, ladies and gentlemen, means respect for the journalistic ethics of law, constitution and responsibility. Only in this context can freedom be discussed. It's not freedom not to tell the truth. Freedom is to tell the truth and tell everything as it really is. I would like to recall what was the fundamental principle of intercultural dialogue, which we confirmed in this very Chamber in the presence of all the countries of the European Union. At that time it was said that things should be named with the right name, without misdirection, and without falsehood. Then we reached agreement and it would be nice if all Slovenian media took this agreement into account. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u176	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We have, of course, been at the modern centre's website, and we still believe that the recommendations made by the Slovenian Democratic Party are not suitable for further consideration and, as such, we have also rejected them at the Committee's meeting and plenary session. It's four recommendations. The two recommendations went this way for Parliament to recommend to the Government of Slovenia that it call on public RTV Slovenia to respect the law and report on why it does not respect the law. One recommendation was that the National Assembly should call on public RTV to report why it does not respect the law. The legislative and legal service has found that such recommendations are unfounded because the public RTV is an autonomous body under Article 2 of the Radio Television Act Slovenia has supervisory authorities, that is, the programme council and the guardian of viewer rights, and it is necessary that the policy does not interfere with the way in which public broadcasting is reported because it has autonomy and also has competent authorities. The fourth decision proposed that the Government set up an independent media council to be supervised by the European Commission. After the documentation obtained by the representative of the European Commission in Slovenia and after examining the research task on the situation of the media in Europe and the media worlds already in existence, it was clear that the European Commission does not have any supervisory authority, nor any function, nor any legal basis, to monitor media developments in each Member State. This study, carried out by the National Assembly Research Service, also showed that no member of the European Union has a media council set up by the government. All such media councils have been set up by independent state-of-the-art journalists, and this shows how the Slovenian Democratic Party would like to deal with the media landscape in the future, through a government council which is supposed to be independent of them, while being supervised by the European Commission. This has also shown this fourth proposal or recommendation to be unfounded, and we insist on the need for independent public television, which has ensured oversight and that autonomy must be maintained, but not that policy is directly mixed, criticising individual journalists and individual broadcasts or editorial policies, because we believe that this is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u178	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Then he has an explanation for the vote in his own name, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u179	Your Honor! The supervisory function of Parliament is something that follows from the Constitution itself. Not only does Parliament have the right to look at the implementation of the laws it has adopted, but it is also the duty of this Parliament. And when it detects irregularities, it is also the duty of this Parliament and each Member of Parliament, in particular, to bring this to the attention of the public. This was the objective of the proposals that we have put forward and which are, therefore, still well-founded and even necessary. If we live in a country where not only part of the policy, those who are privileged, uncleed, wrapped in sugar and smoke, but even another part of journalists or editorials raises shouting and shouting just because someone says that respect for the Constitution, human rights, human integrity as a fundamental constitutional right, that it is necessary to speak truthfully and give people comprehensive information, enlightened by different values of view, that each one can then create his own opinion and that he can participate constructively in decision-making in the good of the country, then, ladies and gentlemen, if that is the problem, we must be very concerned. Then, more precisely, what you yourself are saying is proof that our proposals are not only justified but also indispensable support, and that they will need to be reopened again and again in the National Assembly until things in the media field are consistent with the Constitution, laws and journalistic ethics. In particular at the public institution RTV Slovenia, which should be a reference for all others according to all the criteria of the profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-27-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u180	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 50, 13 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and therefore the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Decision establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in Novi Grad. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 65.1 votes against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda and also the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly.
