ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 15th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 9.30 a.m. to 13 p.m., Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, mag. Tanja Zink from 12 a.m. to 12 p.m., Dr. Jasna Murgel from 12 a.m. to 17 p.m., Mr. Jan Mahnic, mag. Ange Logar, mag. Andrej Shircelj, mag. Branislav Rajić, mag. Matej Tonin, Mr Bojan Podkrodšek, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Simon Zajc, Mr Igor Zorčič by 10 a.m. and Mr Ivan Prelog by 12 noon. I welcome everyone here. Before we move on to the 6th item of the agenda, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly. Respectable citizens and citizens, Members and Members of Parliament! "We preach of hope, standing on the bones of the past." These forces of unpleasant but notable words of the Rwandan bishop John Rucihan bring to our lives an important and necessary awareness of mankind’s worst errors, at the same time testify to our persistent inability to perceive past mistakes. Today it is exactly 71 years since the heroes of the Red Army stepped into the Nazi concentration camp Auschwitz, which was built by the Third Reich to realize its murderous utopia. Only in this factory of death have more than a million campers, as well as most Jews and ethnicists — including thousands of 331 Slovenes and Slovenes — lost their lives in the most horrendous and unimaginable ways. For the Jews, Auschwitz became the largest cemetery in the history of their people, but it is a cemetery without graves, without piles, gravestones and remains. There was a terrible memory of the past and a frightening reminder of the future. The liberation of Auschwitz, of course, did not in itself mean the end of World War II, but it represented a symbolic destruction of the foundations of the ideology of destruction and dehumanization that fueled the Nazi machine. The conflict of unimaginable historical dimensions was not based on the threat posed to the future aggressor. No, no, no. This conflict evolved and tried to legitimize itself on the idea; an idea that divided members of mankind into multi-value and unprofitable, superhuman and inhumane. The Nazi ideology was nourished, and its cruel operationalization justified the establishment of fear of sinning goats, who were held accountable for all injustices, for any error. As a quasi-justice solution to the imaginary problem created, the bloodstreams chose a policy of carefully targeted suffering and extermination, a policy whose destructiveness, insecurity and incompetence were not written until Raphael Lemkin, a genocide born during the sea. Dearly respected, today we mark the International Day of Holocaust Remembrance which was proclaimed 11 years ago by members of the international community under the auspices of the United Nations; we mark the Day of Remembrance, which was the ultimate destruction of the Jewish people in Europe. The memory of paraphrasing Italian philosopher Georgi Agambien gives a new possibility of the past. By remembering, the past becomes incomplete and open to what has not been. Remembering is not what has happened or what has not happened, but it is about opening up the possibility of becoming both executed and unfulfilled, again possible. In our mystical perception of the tragedy of the Holocaust, we have said the words "never again" on several occasions, but we have only recently done so when it was really necessary. As a razor-sharp warning, we are cut off by the testimony of those who had to endure the holocaust's dehumanization, but their voices will one day be silenced. To whom and why are we going to preach "never again" on January 27?Oh, my God! Let me therefore conclude with a cruel passage from the part of the Night, the former Jewish camper, the messenger of peace, reconciliation and human dignity, and the recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize Eli Wiesla: "My unspoken neighbor has said, 'Don't let go, Hitler has been perfectly clear, he will destroy all Jews before he refuses the hour of 12.' I said, "Why do you care what he said? Do you want us to think of him as a prophet? His cold eyes were sickening me, and he said, "I have more faith in Hitler than anyone else. Only he kept a promise to the people of Judah, all promises." Your Honor, our sermon is not enough. It's just us who can prevent the memory from coming back to nothing. They count our promises; not only in words, but especially in actions. Thank you. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, it's a second defensive proposal for a law on celibacy and funeral management, an orderly procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Jani Möderndorfer. With regard to this bill, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik, President of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u2	The Committee on the Economy is at its 13th session. 1. 2016 as a parent working body, Mr Jani Möderndorfer submitted a proposal for a law on funeral activities and the management of burial sites to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS Group of Members. In the introductory explanation, the applicant pointed out to the Court of Auditors, which proposed to the Government that the possibility of a change of regime should be examined by means of burial and/or funeral activities or at least one part of one or more activities could be marketed or examined and proposed the adoption of a legal basis in the Law on Economic Public Services for the granting of licences for the conduct of funeral and funeral activities. The proposer advocates a solution in order to keep the funeral and burial activities compulsory for local economic services under which a basic standard of service should be provided and for funeral activities, access to market activities should also be allowed, subject to certain conditions. The bill therefore distinguishes between a funeral activity carried out on the free market and an activity subject to a compulsory public service within the jurisdiction of the municipality. The representative of the Government further pointed out that a new proposal for a law on funeral and burial activities was being prepared, which would eliminate obsolete legislation and problems in practice, while trying to follow European guidelines. It is prepared in accordance with the starting points adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in April 2014 to prepare a new Law on Funeral Activities and the Management of Cemeteries in a way that will also be organised in the future as a compulsory municipal economic service and the funeral activity will be carried out in the context of a free economic initiative as a market activity, subject to certain conditions. If certain parts of the funeral activity cannot be adequately provided by the market, the segment may be organised as a compulsory public service. The draft bill is currently being supplemented on the basis of comments received and opinions following inter-resor coordination in October 2015. It is envisaged that the final draft law will be sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption by the end of February 2016 at the latest. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the draft law on funeral activities and the management of burial sites submitted by Member Jani Möderndorfer and proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia the adoption of a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service warned that the service had made some comments, but the amendments tabled did not resolve or abolish them. Thus, the service remains with its already stated written opinion. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee discussed mainly funeral and funeral activities and dilemmas as to when to be public, when to be a market part of this activity, and the role of operators, namely local communities and individual market operators. Some examples of practices have been highlighted in this regard, particularly as regards control, competition and unfair business practices. The Committee on the Economy adopted further the conclusion that the proposal for a law on funeral activities and funeral management, EPA 878-VII, is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u3	I give the floor to the motion for a bill to Mr Jani Möderndorfer to introduce the position on the proposal of the mother labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you very much. You heard, the committee debated, and decided that the law was not suitable for further consideration. My intention and purpose are completely clear and different from what was expected. The fact is, most people always make decisions. It decides, as the President of the Constitutional Court would say – unfortunately in one of the other cases – and so is the case. However, what is, of course, the intent of the law itself, is that it is in fact a public interest. In the debate that the law saw in the light of May last year, it was more than clear that the intention went in the direction of the great liberalisation of the law itself and the activity itself. This liberalisation really means a distance from what we achieved many years ago; not 10 years ago, not 30 years ago, not 50 years ago, but 100 years ago. 100 years ago, they created a very clear public interest in the relationship, namely, the piette itself and the very activities being carried out in memory of the person from whom we are truly saying good-bye. What the Court of Auditors wrote must be read in two ways. One of them, of course, is the regulation; what the government proposal of the law foresees is the distinction between economic and non-economic activities – and this was also foreseen by my law, my proposal – and indeed, it must be very clear that the Constitutional Court in 2000 made the following clear. It was said that the establishment of burial and burial activities for compulsory economic public service was not in breach of the Constitution provided for a free economic initiative, even though the law was adopted in a system of different social economic regulation. So, in other words, this is permissible and not contrary to the Constitution. The European Court of Justice has also made it very clear that funeral activities provide for public interest and that public authorities are obliged to defend funeral activities and, where necessary, to pay the costs of funerals. Therefore, even in this case, it is more than clear that there is a need to establish public interest. But, of course, a major liberalisation in this area can only do two things: it raises prices and, more importantly, it takes public interest. So it's not about fighting private people and, as they used to say, social property or controlling space and work, but it's primarily about whether people give up what we had under control and owned today in the case of the local community. The law will not bring anything that would change the funeral activity from today; it is said that, even in advance, I expect that there should be an opportunity where public economic services cannot be organised in order for private people to do so. But pay attention: under the control and interest of the local community! And this is a significant difference; of course not in the case of the Government. Notwithstanding the fact that the law will not be adopted today, I hope that the debate has brought this new message that the Government will prepare in its bill those solutions that will allow this possibility, namely that public interest will remain at the local level, that the local community and the people living can already continue to have control and decide on the burial order and all other things. But of course, I hope that the next three things will be taken into account. This is that the bill will clearly and unequivocally contain a prohibition on payment of the transfer of the right to rent a grave. Another time. In addition to cremating dead fruits, he will also arrange for the cremation of all the biological material of human origin; it is said that everything else is from the body. Last, as a fellow member of the committee said in the debate itself, when he was afraid that everything would change easily, colleague Tonin, so that the local community could decide for itself whether the funeral activity would be carried out as well as the so-called optional economic services – it is said, all other possible private forms. Thank you very much. I hope the government has at least one hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Aleš Cantarutti, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Allow me further on behalf of the Government a few words to the Proposal for a Law on Funeral Activities and the Management of Cemeteries, which is before you today. First, the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities in force — which is now in force — was adopted back in 1984 and, despite some amendments or replacements of other laws, has not yet undergone significant changes. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we are preparing a new proposal for a law on funeral and burial activities that will eliminate obsolete legislation and the problems encountered in this implementation, taking into account all European guidelines. It is prepared in accordance with the starting points adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in April 2014 to prepare a new Law on Funeral Activities and the Management of Cemeteries in a way that will also be organised in the future as a compulsory municipal economic service and funeral activity under a free economic initiative, taking into account certain conditions: only if certain parts of the funeral activity cannot be adequately provided by the market can be organised in this segment as a compulsory economic public service. The draft bill is still being supplemented on the basis of comments and opinions received. The final draft law will be sent to the Government in February. Just as a proposal for a law submitted by Member Jani Möderndorfer for consideration, the draft law we are preparing at the Ministry also distinguishes between funeral activity and the management of burial sites. Both proposals introduce a high level of standards and standards for the conduct of funeral activities. An essential difference between the way funeral activities are carried out or the distribution of funeral services to be carried out as an economic public service and funeral services to be carried out in the open market. Given that the proposal for a law before you today does not follow the adoption of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of April 2014 in the field of funeral activity, we propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In addition, I would like to say that there has been a broad debate by interested public in the process of drafting the bill, but also now, and also a debate by the Committee on the Economy on this proposal, which is before you today, and it has certainly been useful. I am sure that, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, in the next two months, you will get as good a proposal as possible for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. On the Committee on the Economy, the proposal for a law on funeral activities and the management of burial sites, tabled by Mr Jani Möderndorfer, was voted unfit for further consideration. What makes the law inappropriate remains an open question, except that it is not substantively in line with the idea of a coalition, or the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which is expected to soon draw up its proposal for regulation in this area. The original sin of this proposal is that you dare to define public interest in funeral and burial activities. This means that it is possible to regulate prices in the field, to invest in and maintain the burial infrastructure that brings loss; and, of course, to ensure a certain standard in all procedures that accompany the death of a loved one. The public interest stems from the fact that death and all the rituals resulting from it are one of the key anthropological practices. It's not just about the fifth to the deceased, it's about the relationship to the relatives, it's about the whole community, which was the deceased. At the same time, public interest also stems from the fact that the funeral is an extremely high cost and for many it means deepening social distress. Finally, austerity measures among others also claimed the right to burial, which since the beginning of 2014 is no longer part of health insurance, but of social transfer. The fact is that the area requires renovation, since the law in force dates back to 1984, but the situation on the ground is messy and chaotic. The proposal for Jani Möderndorfer's law is a solid starting point, and with some corrections that we have proposed in the United Left, it would specifically regulate the situation. It is eloquent that the new proposal arises at MGRT, not at the Ministry of Environment and Space, where, of course, the logic of these things would belong. Funeral and burial activities will therefore be another liberalised area subject to the free market. The consequences of faith and belief in the almighty free market need not be further clarified. So on the dead and the emotions of loved ones at the loss, we should not be making private gains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u9	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u10	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities and on the Regulation of Cemetery was adopted in previous social regulations and has therefore been in place for many years, especially in various arrangements for burial and burial activities in individual municipalities. In view of the fact that this is an activity which, due to the principle of the provision of piete, health protection and equal treatment of funeral service providers and operators on the one hand and in order to ensure effective control on the other, this proposal should be assessed in an integrated manner. We note the risk that an arrangement restricting the conduct of funeral and funeral activities to only one operator in a predetermined area and at prices determined by a municipal legal act does not comply with European Union law. This is what the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia said in its audit report in November 2014, when it notes that in 94 Slovenian municipalities, 44.5% of funeral activity or part of it is carried out at least occasionally despite restrictive legislation as a market activity. In 30 municipalities funeral activity is carried out exclusively in the open market. This practice is also known by our neighbouring countries, such as Austria, Italy and Croatia. In Novi Slovenija we advocate such an arrangement that the cemetery activity can remain organised as a compulsory municipal economic service and the funeral activity must be left to the free economic initiative, that is to say, to be carried out as a market activity. Of course, the legislator should set clear conditions, rules and standards for all funeral operators, whether public or private. The fact is that such arrangements do not close anyone's doors, funeral activities could be carried out by utility companies or private providers. The municipalities themselves could regulate this area according to tradition and local customs. Of course, it is also logical that this is not acceptable for some large or urban municipalities, since the present only concessionaires should have access to services for other operators if the contracting authorities so wish. Their legal monopolies would thus be disabled, and this would also allow for the possibility of the transfer of funds from funeral to burial activities, which today is a very common practice of utilities. It is also essential to establish effective and uniform supervision. In addition to the above-mentioned facts, Christian Democrats also point out the following dilemmas which make it unacceptable for us to propose this law, namely the first transport of the deceased and the provision of a 24-hour duty on duty as a compulsory economic public service. It is any transport from the place of death to the cold spaces within the public service or health institution. Such transport is unnecessary and is also totally unacceptable. They do not know such a special monopoly, but they do know the so-called intervention transport carried out at the call of the police in the event of an accident. Secondly, the law no longer provides for the possibility of direct transport from the home of the deceased to the mortuary cord, which is often the case in rural areas. Of course, it is also not acceptable for Christian Democrats to make a provision that, without the permission of the competent congregation, a burial may be carried out with a grill or a scattering of ashes at the home of the deceased or the subscriber of the funeral. Ladies and gentlemen, in Novi Slovenija we hope that the proposal for a new law on funeral, burial and burial activities, which the Government is expected to provide for the consideration and adoption of the National Assembly by the end of February of this year, will regulate this area in accordance with the European guidelines and the Court of Auditors' audit report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u11	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Mirjana Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! Today we will not decide on the proposal for a law that our fellow Member has tabled in the procedure, nor will we decide on amendments to articles that we may not agree with. The coalition has, as has been so far, decided that the law introduced by the Member is not suitable for further consideration. It is not appropriate because the Ministry and the Government are preparing a systemic solution that will solve all the problems in the area under consideration. Legal regulation of funeral and burial activities has proved extremely difficult in recent years. What a difficult area of regulation, the fact that there have been several governments working in this area for several years, and the law itself has been virtually unchanged for 30 years. Due to the lack of and partly obsolete legislation, there are in practice various interpretations of the law that have led to various arrangements for funeral and funeral activities by municipalities. Therefore, the municipal decrees by which municipalities under the Local Self-Government Act decide the ways and conditions for the provision of burial services, the award of concessions and the execution of works at burial sites with public workers are often not in accordance with that law. Some municipalities have granted concessions to carry out burial and burial activities, while others have left the operation of funeral activities to the free market. Calls, on the one hand, for the full liberalisation of funeral activities and on the other hand for the continued maintenance of the compulsory public service for burial and burial activities, have helped to ensure that matters do not change in this area and thus do not follow the needs of time, nor do I, for example, require the Court of Auditors. This, according to the applicant, is one of the main reasons why he decided to open the debate, even though he knew that the law would not receive sufficient support. Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members also believe that there are more than enough reasons to separate the funeral activity from the cemetery management and to identify individual services belonging to one or another activity. Here we must not forget even the monumental status of individual burial sites, which certainly requires different treatment and also status. We can also attach to the proposal for a law in an unreasonable interpretation of European environmental legislation, as we are reminded of many examples from practice. This is also one of the reasons why the area needs to be regulated in a comprehensive manner, so that it does not allow for different practices and different interpretations, so that the funeral and cemetery management activities will be separated and individual services belonging to one or another activity will be identified. The Ministry of the Economy has promised us the regulation of the industry, and now we can only hope that a government proposal will also come true in two months' time, as the Secretary of State has promised us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have heard that the present area is governed by the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities and on the Regulation of Cemetery, which was adopted in the distant year 1984, making it scarce and obsolete. In practice, however, it has led to a wide variety of arrangements for funeral and funeral activities by congregation. According to the Court of Auditors’ audit report of 2014, which examined the provision of implementation and supervision of funeral and funeral activities and the management of burial sites from 2009 to 2012, it follows that in 30 municipalities the funeral and funeral activities were carried out in full, that in 35 municipalities the cemetery and or burial activities were marketed in 29 municipalities where the funeral and funeral activities were carried out in a certain form of economic public service or a combination of other forms, citizens could choose any funeral and funeral activity on the market, on the basis of which the Court of Auditors concludes that in 94 municipalities or 44 % of all municipalities were engaged in burial and burial activities at least occasionally as a market activity. The proposal for a Funeral and Funeral Management Act provides that both funeral activity and funeral management are carried out as a compulsory economic service, with only a small part of the funeral activity not subject to compulsory public service or economic activity. As we have already heard, in 2014, the government adopted a decision setting out that a new law should be drawn up in a way that would also be organised in the future as a compulsory public service and that the funeral activity should be carried out to the greatest extent possible as a market activity; both in the public interest, in accordance with the Constitution and the rest of the legislation under the supervision of local and state inspection services and the Ministry of Economy. On the basis of the above, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre is of the view that the proposal for the Law on Funeral Activities and the Management of Cemeteries is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u15	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only the text of the current current law on funeral activities and the management of burial sites has not changed substantially since its adoption, as you note from many parliamentary groups, since 1984, although the text should at least be recast in accordance with the 1993 Economic Services Act. Thus, the law was adopted in previous social regulations, so its individual solutions no longer fit. The flawed, in fact, is outdated, and legislation has caused the law, as many have noted, to be interpreted very differently, causing various arrangements for burial and burial activities by the municipalities. As many point out, in its audit, the Court of Auditors called for the establishment of conditions for the conduct of funeral and funeral activities, the separation of funeral and funeral activities and the definition of individual services belonging to individual activities. According to the Court of Auditors, the new law should specify which services for the economic services of the public service of burial and funeral activities should be accessible to the inhabitants, the manner and procedures for the pricing of these services, so as to ensure adequate arrangements for the implementation and financing of this economic service in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me say that the Court of Auditors has pointed out that only 60 municipalities, less than a third of the municipalities, have defined municipal acts and this service as a compulsory public service and the rest as a selective or market activity. The Court of Auditors carried out an audit where it was found to be exclusively a market activity in 30 of 211 Slovene municipalities, 97 municipalities as an economic public service and 84 municipalities in different forms, for example as a public undertaking and as a local community, a public undertaking with a subcontractor, a management establishment and a public company and so on. So we have a number of very different definitions for these activities. What is stipulated by the law in the field of funeral activity is that the subject of public service is the funeral of the deceased, the transport of the deceased, the provision of permanent duty, within the congregation of the deceased, the care of the deceased, the preparation and execution of the minimum funeral ceremony. As funeral services that are not the subject of an economic public service, the cremation of the deceased, embalming the deceased, transporting the deceased if not the first transport, and funeral ceremonies exceeding the minimum. What many governments have already identified when adopting or amending this law is that in fact there are only two solutions. The first solution, as the bill-maker also notes, is that the burial activity remains a compulsory local economic service and the funeral activity is fully abandoned to the market, with all economic operators meeting certain qualitative conditions able to carry out market activities. However, the second possible solution prepared by the applicant goes in the direction of funeral and burial activities remain compulsory for local economic services, which should provide a basic standard and services and allow for access to market activities for funeral activities, subject to certain conditions. Let me say that right here in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this area we have prepared amendments, we still believe that the funeral activity must be left to the market, assuming, of course, that those who carry out this activity have certain conditions for carrying out this activity, both human factors and material conditions for carrying out this activity. We also believe that, at those most critical moments, family members can judge, make decisions, and that in some democratic society, this right to a different choice or to competition must be a major one. What was very interesting at the meeting of the committee was that representatives of the Chamber of Commerce also told of the numerous anomalies that are taking place at the cemetery. An example where, as some of you have mentioned, a larger municipal company is engaged in funeral, burial activity, and also a flower shop, then stoned, and someone who wanted to bury his own was forced to take over all of these services at this cemetery. So the graves were already arranged, along with the monuments and ready, so he had to buy a grave and a monument and so on. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we warn that we are going somehow to what the Government has announced today in the new amendment to the law, namely the law that the Government will propose to this part, namely the funeral activities, is somehow liberalised, of course under certain conditions that it is a funeral – that is, in particular a burial activity – and a compulsory economic service. Here, too, we agree that there are, in fact, cemeteries, we can say, cultural monuments, as some have noted, and these are also some of our principles in this law. However, we believe that the applicant has prepared some qualitative conditions, but I do not think that the law is suitable for further consideration and we will not support it in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, good day to all! We have before us a proposal for a law for which we decided in the Desus Group at the Committee on the Economy that it is not suitable for further consideration. Initially, it should be noted that no significant changes have been made in the area of funeral and burial activities in the last three decades in the legislative field. The Funeral and Funeral Activities Act, which was adopted in the previous Social Regulations in 1984, is simply no longer in line. His faulty and out - of - date cities have provided a variety of explanations, generating a wide variety of arrangements for funeral and burial activities by the municipalities. A number of attempts to regulate this area over the last decade have shown that stakeholders sometimes have diametrically opposite views. The associations and communities of the municipalities want the funeral activity to be defined as a municipal economic service and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry wants to divide its public and market work as it fears the adoption of a monopoly that would destroy competition. We also have, on the one hand, a decision of the previous government regarding the separation between the public and market segments, and on the other hand, the Constitutional Court has taken the view that the establishment of burial and funeral activities for compulsory economic public service is not inconsistent with the Constitution. However, it is a red thread of both approaches to resolving the problem that the Court of Auditors may conclude that there is a major confusion in the municipalities in this area. The municipalities are regulated in different ways and there are differences in the prices of services. And we oppose all of this in the Desus Group. The main point that we had at the time of considering the bill was that it was necessary, simply stated, to restore such an outdated law and, in the interests of such different interests, more time for coordination and agreement. We are aware that the area is difficult and requires an in-depth discussion with all interested parties, so we do not want a fast adoption of a law that could very quickly be seen as a need for amendment. However, it must be acknowledged at this point that the proposal for a law also has a number of good extensions and that at the Committee's meeting it has triggered a useful drafting of opinions, which will certainly come in handy in the coordination of the new law prepared by the Government. In addition, a proposal by colleague Möderndorfer raised some important issues that could not be resolved only by amendments. It is also true that, with the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, the applicant himself did not do so. To conclude, in the Desus Group we certainly believe that it is time for the old marriage to be buried. Another effort will be needed to harmonise open issues, find a common denominator and finally regulate the area of funeral and burial activities after three decades. Of course, it remains a primary awareness that we need to give citizens and citizens a particularly worthy reputation from their fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u19	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! The legislation governing funeral and funeral activities is 32 years old and provides that both activities, both funeral and funeral management, are compulsory for the public service and that local communities are responsible for the organisation. The arrangement was therefore designed for another system, for 60 then municipalities and their local communities, and did not change in the meantime. Thus, at its establishment, each congregation was able to settle the area differently, with its own implementation, concession or funeral activity, leaving the free market. As a result, 212 small markets with different arrangements were formed in 2 million Slovenia. Although Slovenians and Slovenians are attached to our home, of course not everyone in the place where he lived dies, the dead are not necessarily buried where they died. In these cases, the weaknesses of the current regime often show up, which means costs and a great deal of stress for the already affected family members who at difficult times deserve understanding and support and professional and pietically performed services in order to be able to say good-bye to the one who left them. Such an arrangement also has an important impact on other related activities, to mention only florists and quarrying, who also feel the consequences of different ways of managing burial sites. At the same time, I must point out the importance of a patient and five-way public debate in regulating this area. Despite its shortcomings, the system has so far been operational. When it is regulated, we are obliged to act with respect, patience, and care so that it can be properly arranged. There have been many attempts to change legislation by different governments, but unfortunately they have never been successful because of the lack of respect for the principles of tolerance. This time it shows that we are much closer to salvation. The current government has also drawn up a proposal for a law that will be dealt with briefly in the National Assembly. We are pleased with the debate so far on the proposals for a novel to regulate this area. As a key solution to this proposal, we stress the separation between the management and management of burial sites and the burial order, which will continue to be a compulsory economic service, and the funeral activity, which will be a market activity with legal conditions for those who will perform it. These conditions include, in particular, the competence of employees, compliance with sanitary and health regulations and the 24-hour provision of certain essentials, such as the first transport of deceased persons. We believe that more than 60 funeral operators are able to continue to work within the framework of the law and with respect for users, and they themselves claim that they largely comply with all the proposed proposals. It is important to resolve the issue of costs for end-users. Many fear that the introduction of competition in the field of funeral activities would result in higher costs for them and we share these fears, regardless of the general principle that competition should lower service prices. For the sake of piette, we must also ensure that there is no aggressive marketing and unnecessary pressure on the dead. However, we need to find that competition between funeral operators already exists and that there is also a choice for users, only that it is significantly limited by very different arrangements across municipalities. We have therefore proposed and obtained support for a solution in the new law which will require funeral operators to perform a basic decent funeral ceremony at a price not higher than the current funeral. We believe that this is an important contribution, that prices remain affordable and the cost of the funeral will not be more of a concern than it has been so far. Some also point to the potential increase in the costs associated with burial activities, since in certain municipalities they could no longer cover the losses of the management of burial sites. Here we must say that this option exists, but at the same time note that these surpluses were created from payment for the funeral activity which ultimately had to be paid by the users. We therefore believe that this area can be regulated so that no new costs will arise for the municipalities and their citizens. We support the proposal of the mother labour body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, but we welcome the contribution made by the applicant in his proposal to the debate. The debate on the working body has shown that it is finally possible to settle this difficult area so that everyone can trust that our last journey and resting place will also be properly cared for.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the meeting's time frame tomorrow, 28. 1. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is on the defence proposal of the recommendation in connection with the proposal of the Health Action Act. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 21 Members and Members with the first signed Mr Jožet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Jelka Godec's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all, to the team of the Ministry of Health, who is also without the head representative this time, is the Minister of Health! I think that all citizens expect or expect citizens to have a functioning health system following the patient, following the user. That is why we have growing expectations both from the health system itself and also from the Ministry of Health, so we believe that the Slovenian government structure should have adopted a challenge yesterday called the reform of the health system. We certainly want comprehensive health reforms that are supposed to be transparent, prudent and, last but not least, sustainable. Unfortunately, the Ministry is in a bit of a jam. To date, by the Minister, as well as by the largest coalition group or SMC party in the National Assembly, which are often its representatives, including the Deputy Ministers or the Prime Minister of the Ministry of Health, we have not received an answer when we can expect a health reform. Even more, it is said that health reforms are simply not needed in Slovenia that we only need more money. At times, however, when the Ministry of Health adopts a regulation, it is said that it is a health reform, but when it comes to the adoption of health laws, it says that it is only minor changes that eliminate certain health abnormalities. In order not to see health reform in this mandate, or at least at the time of the Government of Mira Cerar, and not to wait for it, it was clear from the statements made by Prime Minister Mir Cerar and Minister of Public Administration of Mr Koprivnik, who, at the presentation of the international analysis of the Slovenian health system, said that we did not need health reforms. This analysis, an international analysis of the Slovenian health system in the introduction, states that a process of fiscal consolidation is under way in Slovenia aimed at limiting and restructuring public consumption. Structural reforms are essential in this process to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public spending. We can definitely agree on this and in Slovenia it is necessary to thoroughly review and improve the efficient use of public funds in health care as well. Coalition partners have optimistically stated in the Coalition Agreement that the health priority is a proposal for amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act, thus ensuring the financial sustainability of compulsory health insurance, abolishing voluntary supplementary health insurance and replacing it by giving, regulating the rights and obligations of compulsory health insurance at the level of law. While these envisaged measures could be debated whether they are properly set or not, it is clear that nothing has been done in this area since the signing of the coalition agreement in September 2013. The Ministry of Health has not even met its objective of establishing criteria for the adoption of a public health network at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels. However, the Ministry has taken up the problem of public finances elsewhere in the field of concessions. While many and many of these accounts are being enriched by public funds, including at the Ministry of Health, the Ministry is merely flirting with the idea of limiting concessionary activities in health care. Thus, the Ministry of Health published a proposal for amendments to the Health Act on 29 September 2015. The same as the Emergency Medical Aid Regulation, this proposal also came across a sharp response from the professional public precisely because the general public did not participate in the preparation of this draft. This was pointed out by various letters from the Ministry, but because of total ignorance of the Ministry it was not possible to cooperate. It is true that we have only a draft Health Act ahead of us, but we fear that the matter will take place in the same way as it did in the Emergency Medical Regulations, which means that the draft will also become the final version. We are proposing that the proposed amendments to the Health Activity Act eliminate any competition between health service providers, as the Ministry of Health, with the proposed amendment, returns Slovenian health care to the path of the socialist system and re-sets the basis for plan, by the country of fully regulated health. We are of the opinion that the current draft Health Act is certainly not in the public interest, i.e. in the interest of healthcare users, citizens, as the accessibility of patients to the selected personal physician will be reduced if this law is applied. The ZZS report provides information that as much as 25% of the specialised outpatient work is carried out by concessionaires. If the proposal before us, i.e. the Health Act, comes into force, waiting periods will be further extended during the specialist outpatient review. Patients who are now defined as a doctor or dentist will virtually be left without a physician selected. Patients should be re-examined by their own personal physician in a public institution if their selected current concessionary doctor would not be re-acquired to a concession or permit. So if these doctors are left without a defined personal doctor or if they are left without a licence and patients want to stay with him, they will have to pay for these services themselves. On day two. 11. 2015 According to the register of the Medical Chamber in Slovenia, there are a thousand 157 institutions with a medical concession in which there are a thousand 398 doctors. The proposal to amend the Health Act is thus touched, I repeat, by a thousand 398 concessionary doctors, of which 333 are family and general doctors, 391 primary and secondary specialists, 652 dentists and dentist specialists, and all these patients treated in these doctors. It is also important to say this or to point out that the concessionaires' doctors invested themselves in the infrastructure to carry out their activities. So they invested their assets. The equipment, as you all know, is very expensive for some contractors. According to an assessment of the professional association of private doctors and dentists of Slovenia, which have almost a thousand members, concessionaires invested approximately EUR 366 million in fixed assets before the beginning of the work. I stress once again; they invested in their own property because the State does not invest in medical equipment for concessionaires, while the local community and the state invest in public institutions because they are their founders. We also point out that some concessionaires have indefinite concessions and multi-annual contracts with the Health Insurance Office on the implementation of the programme. In doing so, i.e. the amendment of the Health Act, there may also be actions against the State, i.e. those concessionaires who now have concessions for an indefinite period. On the other hand, it should be noted that the current European Union regulation on the free movement of cash services has placed Slovenian private doctors in an unequal position compared to doctors abroad. In view of the unacceptable waiting periods in the Slovenian insured, patients are looking for checks and interventions in other European Union countries, as they are also reimbursed for the full amount. This is how ZZZS funds flow abroad, while the same ZZZS does not cover the costs of the review in Slovenian individuals. With concessionaires suspended on a secondary level, however, we would estimate that more patients would be looking for health services outside Slovenia. For the sake of all of this and, for the sake of this, I will say, we have also called in the Slovenian Democratic Party or proposed this consideration to the National Assembly, proposed recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the Ministry of Health. Following recommendations that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health should reconsider all comments made in the public debate, the comments of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia on the new Health Act and include them in the law. The National Assembly also proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health to withdraw and prepare a new law if it is found that the proposal is contrary to European Union law. The coalition has already decided on the Committee once more to protect the Minister and these proposals and has voted that the recommendations are not appropriate or that there will be no vote today. Opinions – or why have we also, once again, proposed this consideration in the Slovenian Democratic Party? In fact, the poor experience, once again, with the Emergency Medical Aid Regulation, shows that the Ministry insists stubbornly on the draft, which will also become the final version, does not take into account the proposals made by the professional public, even though, for example, in the Emergency Medical Aid Regulation, the State Council’s decision was that the Ministry should be informed of the final draft or final version of the Emergency Medical Aid Regulation before the adoption of the Emergency Medical Aid Regulation. We are equally afraid that the proposal of the Health Act, which generally predicts that concessions will slowly dry up or end; that is, concessions are expected to be awarded only for a period of 15 years. We have heard on the committee that this period is also set for 10, 15 or 20 years, depending on how many concessionaires or what investments will be in the activity itself. That means if I generalise when the equipment is amortized, we'll close the concessions. I wonder who, in fact, of doctors or those who want to have a concession will even want to have such an activity if he knows that after 15 years, there is no possibility that his concession will be extended. First of all, he has to invest his money in opening an outpatient or professional practice; then, within 15 years or after certain years, he has to invest in equipment that is spent, and he has to invest in human resources education. I don't know a person who, with such a mindset that after 15 years, his practice, a company, i.e. with an entrepreneurial mindset, would be closed down to invest in a company that can dry up after 15 years for any reason. Even if it works well, it is not said that after 15 years the concession remains and will have to go back to public health. Laws that are inconsistent with the professional public, to say no, I will say laws that are so pointless that they close certain practices that today appear to be good. [[…]] It is true that certain areas or certain concessionaires have been awarded concessions, as the Minister says, in a strange way, but we do have laws to determine how these irregularities could be remedied. Laws that are uncoordinated, unbalanced, not to say unbalanced, certainly must be dealt with in the draft itself. We have therefore proposed these recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I hope that, although there are no conclusions today or that this will not be voted on, it will only be said in the debate that the Ministry should take into account, in future, a slightly more professional public in the drafting of such laws, and that there will be no need to discuss such requirements in the National Assembly at the time of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u23	The proposal for a recommendation is 14. 1. 2016 discussed by the Health Committee. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much, President. Say good-bye to everyone again! The Health Committee is at its 9th session. 1. 2016 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a recommendation concerning a proposal for a Health Action Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. The proposal was also published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. No amendments were tabled on the proposal for recommendations. Ms Jelka Godec, on behalf of the applicant, gave an initial supplementary explanation to the proposal. It pointed out that the Ministry presented a proposal for amendments to the Health Activity Act covering the award of concessions and the implementation of concessionary activities in September 2015. The Ministry prepared the material without the cooperation of the professional public and did not respond to comments during the public debate on the draft law. Since the field of work of concessionaires is extremely important, the applicants believe that the professional public and the Medical Chamber of Slovenia should participate in the changes. The Ministry, according to the proposers, with such a proposal, terminates concessionaires and does not work for the benefit of patients. By adopting recommendations at the Committee and the National Assembly, the Ministry and the Government would undertake to cooperate and take into account any comments in the preparation of amendments to the Health Act. The Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, stressed that the applicants' claims were not met. The proposal for amendments to the Health Act is still in the form of working material and the public debate was held until the end of October 2015 and the comments submitted are being examined. In view of the content of individual comments, the Ministry of Health will organise working meetings with individual stakeholders, and then the material will be channelled into intersectoral coordination, coalition coordination and government. The proposal for a law is intended to regulate the award of concessions in a more transparent manner, but there is no way that concessions are terminated. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore does not support those recommendations. In the debate in which the representatives of the professional public also participated, it was pointed out that the proposal for amendments to the law was really only at the stage of the draft work and that it was difficult to discuss matters that were not being finalised. Most of the debaters stressed the positive role and importance of the work of health concessionaires. The granting of concessions in the past has indeed been unregulated in the initial period due mainly to incomplete rules and some changes are essential. However, they need to be made available with cooperation. In accordance with Articles 128 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all points of the proposal together and did not adopt them. This concludes the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation with regard to the proposal for a Health Act on the Functioning Body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u25	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Sandri Tušar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u26	Dear Members, the President-in-Office! The Ministry of Health has drawn up a draft, proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act and forwarded it to a public debate aimed at the widest possible collection of comments and proposals by stakeholders and the public concerned. The public debate has been held since 29. 9 to 29. Last year's 10th. The draft law was prepared in a procedural manner in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. The Ministry has drawn up a proposal for a law that seeks to comprehensively and systematically regulate the area of the licensing of healthcare activities and the award of concessions for the execution of health activities, has drawn up the following reasons for the necessary changes to the regulatory framework of this area: the establishment of a system that will further regulate the work of private health workers, allowing for the award of concessions with a call for tender in a transparent manner, compliance with the 2006 Public-Private Partnership Act, the non-conformity of the arrangements for the granting of concessions for indefinite periods with the fundamental principles of EU law and with this EU law, on which a number of decisions have already been taken in judicial proceedings before the European Court of Justice. These are, in the opinion of the Government, the reasons why amendments to the law with the said scope of regulation are necessary prior to other amendments to this Act in order to ensure the legality and transparency of the regulation and the granting of licences and concessions for the exercise of health activities. Certain comments and proposals received during the public hearing will be addressed in the context of a comprehensive change in the health system. Key areas of regulation in the draft law proposal: firstly – authorisation to carry out health activities. Conditions shall be laid down, which must also be met by legal and not only natural persons, to obtain a permit to carry out a medical activity. The reasons why the competent authority may withdraw the authorisation to carry out a medical activity shall be laid down. Secondly, concessions for the execution of health activities; concessions will be granted where public health establishments are not or will not be able to ensure the execution of health activities to the extent determined by the public health service network. Concessions shall be awarded at the invitation to tender. Concession is not subject to legal traffic, concessions are granted for a certain period. The content of the concession contract is further defined and effectively monitored. One of the reasons for the termination of the concession contract is the change in the concessionaire's status as a new reason. Thirdly – harmonisation of licences and concessions already granted. The transitional provisions set out the time limits for the harmonisation of licences and concession contracts issued prior to the entry into force of the amendments to the law. In particular, I would like to stress that these provisions will continue to be thoroughly examined and finalized in the further phase of the drafting of the bill. By no means will the arrangements entail the lifting of concessions already granted, but only their alignment with certain basic rules of the new system of granting health concessions, for example, the granting of concessions for a certain period of time. During the public debate, the Ministry received responses by means of proposals, comments and questions from individuals and organisations from 30 stakeholders, including the Medical Chambers of Slovenia, with which we are 14. Ten. In 2015, the meeting was also held when the public debate was still under way. At the meeting, we also considered this bill and agreed that we will continue to coordinate the proposal on the basis of proposals and comments received. We have agreed that the Slovenian Medical Chamber will propose its members to the working group, which will prepare a new text of the bill after receiving responses to the proposal from the law on public hearing. The Chamber forwarded the proposal to the members on 27 November 2015. The proposal for a law is in the stage of drafting a new text following comments received and proposals from the public debate [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u27	I'm warning you on time. It will be later in time [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u28	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u29	I'm saying I'm warning you about time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u30	In view of the above, the Government considers that the proposed recommendations are unnecessary, premature, as the proposal for a law is just being prepared, prepared and put forward in public debate only the first draft of the bill, and the proposed recommendations are also unacceptable in a certain part of the work when they propose to include all the recommendations in the law and to withdraw the bill and prepare a new law if it is found that they are contrary to EU law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u31	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u32	Dear colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State and representatives of the Ministry! Christian Democrats, however, believe that the great injury of the Slovenian health system is mainly the lack of dialogue between health actors and the lack of political will to introduce the necessary changes. It is clear that without dialogue on key and necessary changes in Slovenian health care, we will not achieve these changes. This is also supported by the recommendations on the proposal for a Health Action Act, which unfortunately were not adopted by the Committee. The proposal for the amendment of the Health Act is therefore still under way, but we are not surprised by the beach of readings that has infiltrated the Ministry of Health. After discussion at the Health Committee, we find that the Ministry, regardless of the comments made, insists on its intentions and has not changed its position. The professional public, the concessionaires so far, have excited the announced changes in the area of concessions. We believe that the Ministry of Health has misaligned the necessary changes in the field of concessions with the relevant stakeholders. Why? In public, it has even managed to promote a debilitating and under-appreciative attitude towards concessionaires and private individuals, which largely save the health care of citizens and citizens. The concessionaires are also part of public health. It is true that in the past we have witnessed the systematic and domestic award of concessions, and therefore the area needs to be regulated more transparently, effectively and in dialogue with stakeholders. In no way is it appropriate to label concessionaires and healthcare professionals as those parts of the health system that offer choice represent competition with the public system and reduce waiting periods and waiting periods. We must have the choice of where or where we want to be treated. Last but not least, it's ours and public money. The waiting lines will also be reduced only in a way that those health service providers that have proposals of a waiting type will close their doors and those who know how to offer the service will prosper quickly enough. In New Slovenia, we therefore believe that the concession has played an important role in the stability of the health system and has brought the accessibility of services closer to the users. Concessions are part of public health and complement it, and there is no denying it. We believe that, while there is a need to strengthen control over the allocation and control of implementation, there is a need not to limit the granting of concessions and to introduce stiffness into this whole system. According to a proposal from the Ministry, they may obtain concessions from natural and legal persons, with the sole or majority owner of the legal person responsible for the health activity. This conditionality of the ownership structure is also constitutionally disputed in terms of the free economic initiative and the principle of equality before the law, as well as the trend in financing the health system, which is moving towards a greater contribution of private financing. The proposed novelty prevents greater private investment in health care, but also deprives many of the most eligible and most developed legal persons of their concessions. There is also a disputed limitation of the duration of the concession to 15 years as well as interference with the original competence of municipalities and cities in the award of concessions at the primary level. So to the Ministry of Health, the Secretary of State, we propose to align the bill thoroughly with the stakeholders before sending it to the National Assembly and after unnecessary, completely after unnecessary harassment of the professional public with unconstitutional solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u33	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u34	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the proposals for recommendations on the proposal for the Health Act and in this coalition, it is not unusual that the Government's opinion, that recommendations are not necessary and that they are premature, we have just heard that in the proposal for amendments to the Health Act everything is regulated and, of course, the Health Committee has rejected all the recommendations in parallel. The recommendations are read as follows, only so far as we know what you are rejecting: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a debate on the proposed amendments to the Health Act. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of RS and the Ministry of Health re-examine the comments and proposals of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia to a new or proposed Health Act and incorporate them into the law. And third: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of RS and the Ministry of Health withdraw and prepare a new law if it is found that the proposal is contrary to EU law." I think or I hope you know you have to do it anyway. Dear colleagues, listen and see what you're up against. Unfortunately, there is no minister with us, however; Minister, you have been responsible for the health sector for 494 days and the system is now in worse shape than it was 494 days ago. True, problems have accumulated for a number of years, and it is not your fault. But you are guilty and responsible for the fact that nothing has changed for the better in these 494 days. Emergency centres and e-receptions. Do you know when these projects started? Your customer colleagues from the Modern Centre, who often like to look back, would certainly know how to show you in 2013 when these successful stories began. I'm glad they're over, and it's right that you're proud of them, too, but for 494 days of the ministry, that's not enough. You promised solutions for additional health insurance, you promised transparent recruitment procedures, you promised more money for health care – there is nothing to this day! To this day there is no such thing, except a great deal of murmuring, how difficult it is, but there is no solution. The concessions you've reached are also part of the health problem. I agree with you here. Before you settled the matter, you began to withdraw your consent to the additional work that was mostly managed by the concessionaires. Some wondered what harm they might or might not have suffered because of this. How many operations have been postponed, how long have you extended the waiting lines of Slovenes and Slovenes? I doubt anyone would have asked themselves that, because otherwise they wouldn't have made that kind of decision. And as I have already said, the area of concessions should certainly be regulated; and this should be carefully regulated. However, we must be aware that concessionaires are part of the public health network and that reckless interventions can endanger our health system. The following comments to your proposal were made: Medical Chamber of Slovenia, Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, Association for Pathology and Medical Medicine of the Slovenian Medical Society, Association of Medical Institutions of Slovenia, Syndicate of Doctors of Family Medicine Practikum, Municipal Municipality of Ljubljana, Association of Private Specialist Health Companies, Medical Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia – part of your Ministry, Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, Community of Slovenian Medicines, Movement for the conservation and improvement of public health, Syndikat of Workers in Health Care, Pharmacy of Slovenia, Community of Slovenian Municipalities, Association of Physotherapists of Slovenia and also several individual operators. However, the Government says that it is studying the comments and that it will organise a meeting with the Medical Chamber, as well as with other stakeholders, where appropriate, according to the content of the individual comments. Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, including the Minister, and I suggest you do so as soon as possible. In the Alliance party, we advocate that public health should remain public and accessible to all. With urgent changes, the system should be streamlined so that more money remains for patients. Let us stop threatening the Slovenians with a major reform of the health system, which is neither necessary nor capable of being implemented. From murmuring to salvation, our country will be significantly better! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u35	The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Banko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u36	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members and Members tabled a proposal for a recommendation concerning the procedure for preparing the draft, I repeat, a draft amendment to the Health Act. In doing so, it should be recalled that the drafting of the bill, as well as all others, is based on established practices, as this is the procedure set out in the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. In accordance with all applicable rules concerning the procedure for drafting the bill, the Ministry of Health published the text of the draft text on its websites and called on the public at large. The public debate is aimed at the widest possible collection of comments and proposals, with a view to examining and taking them into account before the final proposal for a regulation is drawn up. Today, we all have information that the Ministry has received comments from 25 stakeholders who are still studying and coordinating them with all who have shown a sincere intention to find the best solutions for the patient. We believe that it is a matter of drafting a law on settled practice that follows the applicable rules of procedure, which were not breached during the drafting of the bill. We also do not have a final formal proposal for a law yet and the debate in the framework of the proposed recommendations would be substantively empty and pointless, since it is constructive to discuss something we do not know at the border of abstract. Therefore, we believe that the recommendation at this stage does not bring any added value. Moreover, the proposaler deliberately distorts the facts and misleads and frightens Slovenian citizens in explaining his proposals, so we have not supported him in the SMC Group at the Health Committee meeting. We would like to point out that concessionaires in Slovenia are an important article complementing the public health network and that the draft law does not speak anywhere about the abolition of concessions, as the proposaler would like to present. All objective experts point out that the area of award of concessions needs to be properly regulated. We believe that the Ministry of Health, on the basis of the basic starting points and comments received from the public debate, will draw up a proposal for an amendment to the Health Act, which will finally properly regulate the area of concessions in public health – which is not properly regulated today – and will allow for the granting of concessions in a professional and, in particular, transparent manner, and will contribute to improving the accessibility of health services to all Slovenes and Slovenes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u37	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! On 29 September last year, the Ministry of Health presented its proposal to amend the Health Act. This amendment to the law refers, as we have already heard today, exclusively to the field of concessions, as if this area were the most acute area of health at this time. The Ministry prepared the amendment of the law in great secrecy and without cooperation with the Medical Chamber, which is nothing new to us. Article 71 of the Medical Services Act provides that the Medical Chamber shall cooperate with the Ministry in the preparation of laws, planning documents, human resources plans and other health regulations. Our point is also that the law is contrary to EU law, which we have also pointed out at the meeting of the home committee. The Ministry gave its opinion at a press conference in September 2015 on this amendment of the law, namely that the market in concessions does not work or works optimally. In doing so, I would like to highlight the opinion of the section on this law. It is of the opinion that the law in force in the field of concessions is well regulated and should only be implemented. Let us see what this bill brings: the conditions that legal and natural persons must fulfil to obtain permission to carry out concession activities – here I would like to point out that the existing law already regulates this area well. It further states the reasons on which the competent authority could withdraw the authorisation to carry out a medical activity — this is also well regulated in existing legislation, but should only be implemented. Concessions are expected to be distributed in the future when public health establishments are not provided or are not able to ensure that health activities are carried out to the extent determined by the public health service network. Here I'm wondering what public health services. It is known that public health service networks are still not available, and the preparation of the public health service network should be a priority for this ministry. Next. Concessions are expected to be awarded on a public invitation to tender in the future, provided for in this proposal for a law. All the new concessions have also now been awarded on the basis of a call for tender. However, if the fact that the concession is not subject to legal traffic means, among other things, that it is not possible to buy or inherit the main reason for amending this law, it would certainly be appropriate for the Ministry of Labour to provide us with information on how many such cases there have been on the sale of concessions, that the health priority is to amend the Health Act in the field of concessions. The proposal also provides that concessions should be granted for a certain period of up to 15 years in the future. The Ministry justifies this fact by ensuring that such a proposal ensures competition between operators. In my opinion, the ministry does not know exactly what competitiveness means and what levers it is providing or increasing competitiveness. In our opinion, if this proposal is adopted, most potential concessionaires will not decide on the concession. Why? The data show that a specialist must invest €366,000 into his premises before opening his office. If the concessionaire decides to borrow or invest equipment in the premises, it will in no way be able to repay that loan within the period for which the concession will be granted. The Ministry also ignores the fact that concessionaires have invested more than 246 million in the health system or in fixed assets to date, and they have already committed more than 246 million to these funds. Most importantly, these funds are invested in public health. If I can sum it up. The Ministry of Health considers that the sole purpose of the amendment of this law is to prevent the sale of concessions, to make the procedure for obtaining concessions more transparent in the future and, most worryingly, to ensure that the Ministry, on the basis of a parental meeting of the working body, reduce waiting types by amending this law. These conclusions and proposals were presented by the Ministry, as I said before, both at last year's press conference and at our home body meeting. It is also a matter of concern that these proposals have not been supported by any analysis that they like to prepare at the Ministry of Health, or that this amendment has not been supported by data that would support these claims. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, because the proposal for amendments to the Health Act was again prepared in great secrecy, without the participation of the profession, as well as the rules on the implementation of emergency medical care, as already stated in the introduction by colleague Jelko, we proposed that the proposal be discussed at the home work body as well as later at the regular meeting of the National Assembly. We have drawn up a recommendation on the proposal for this law, with a view, of course, to having a public debate on these amendments to the law, to have all the comments and suggestions of the Medical Chamber re-examined and included in this proposal for a law and to withdraw and prepare a new law if it is found that the proposal is contrary to EU law. Of course, on a proposal from the Minister, the coalition rejected all our proposals. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the Ministry has not yet embarked on a thorough overhaul and change of the health system in its year and a half. This is not just our opinion, it is the right opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is also the opinion of the profession, which argues that the ministry should approach health reform without delay, which would give us an answer, what should we do better for our patients, how and how much it would cost for all of this. The Ministry should therefore start by establishing a public network at all three levels, saying primary, secondary and tertiary, setting standards and standards for the implementation of health activities, preparing a programme for the reduction of waiting lines, setting up a system for the management of public institutions, establishing an effective system for the payment of health services to operators, providing a financially sustainable public service system and, of course, including long-term care in legislation. With all these measures, it would undoubtedly increase competitiveness, reduce waiting lines and prevent our doctors and our patients from going abroad. This is how the Ministry decided on the area of concessions in the Health Act, and this is like building a roof first and then building a foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u39	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much again. Towards the end of last year, the Ministry of Health forwarded to the public a proposal for amendments to the Health Act to regulate the award of concessions and part of concessionaires. Some of the solutions that have been announced have caused a lot of fear and disagreement among concessionaires who, in the wake of the proposed changes, are afraid for their existence and for their further work. In this context, we also understand the preparation of recommendations, although the proposal is only in the form of working material. At the meeting of our mother's working body, we discussed more about the fears and obviouss of the Ministry of Health, but very little about concrete proposals and solutions. The main findings of the Ministry were that the amendment had drawn up without public participation, that the comments of the profession had not been taken into account, that the proposal placed concessionaires in an unequal or subordinate position and that the concessionary activity was hereby terminated. The Minister rejected the allegations and ensured that the meaningful proposals would be taken into account, while at the same time preparing to cooperate with the interested and the Medical Chamber of Slovenia in the preparation of the final proposal for the novel. On the basis of such assurances, the Minister and the consideration of the complex area of concessions without adequate material of the proposal, we have not supported the recommendations in our parliamentary group. Concessions are one of those areas which in the past did not, in fact, result in the adoption of the Health Act, as this is part of this Act. On the one hand, it is a surprise that this problem has been addressed in an accelerated manner, given that, in the near past, there have been significantly more public health problems than concessionary activities themselves. As can be seen from the discussions on concessions and concessionaires held in the public over the past few years, it is clear that the role of concessionaires is largely misunderstood. Concessionaries are not private, as many show, but are part of the public health network, subject to the same rules and the same funding as other public health institutions. It is also important that patients with their work are satisfied with what they have done. In this way, concessionaires represent an important part of the public health network. At the same time, we must recognise that some legislative changes are also necessary in this area. These belong primarily to the way concessions were awarded, which took place mainly in the first years in a consistent and opaque manner, often also through the inadmissibility of taking funds and programmes to the public health institution. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we support the idea of public tendering for concessions on the basis of the additional resources provided and the needs of the population. We also expect the amendment to the Health Act to ensure effective supervision of the performance of the work of concessionaires and, in the case of infringements, the possibility of withdrawal of the concession. We also advocate the position of the Ministry of Health that concessions cannot be subject to sale or legal transport. In Desus we are advocates of public health, which ensures both solidarity and equal access to health services. It is worth noting, however, that we are part of the European community, where the rules on cross-border healthcare also apply. In the EU, the work of concessionaires, as we have it, is largely unknown, so we expect the role and importance of concessionaires, and in particular the clear distinction between public and private health, to be defined more precisely in the resolution, which indicates the direction of the development of Slovenian health by 2025. Thus, the EU Directive 2014 relating to concessions – of course, does not apply to health concessions, especially to economic activity. At the same time, we believe that the Ministry of Health, when preparing the amendment to the Health Act, will take into account the reasoned comments made by the professional public and prepare a proposal that will also eliminate the unequal situation with regard to the financing and implementation of health programmes in which Slovenian doctors have been found in both public institutions and concessionaries in recent years. While we are at home facing long waiting periods and unpaid overpayments, our public health treasury needs to fully offset the costs of outpatient specialist treatment abroad. The necessary changes and challenges are, therefore, many, but only a wider consensus and the participation of stakeholders can achieve acceptable solutions. The concessionary activity is also subject to change and adjustment in the light of the comprehensive changes in the Slovenian health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u41	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In their style, the applicants applied the established procedural procedure once again and practically forced the first examination of the bill before it came to the National Assembly and even before the legislative procedure even started. We also heard that on the Health Committee. At this point, we have only a draft law, which has been in public debate for a long time, where everyone has had the opportunity to comment. Much of the draft is of a technical nature, not much of a substantive change. All comments received shall be examined and taken into account where appropriate and possible. But the truth is, this is not true of everyone. It is clear that there are insurmountable conceptual differences between the proposer of the point and the draft proposal, which is nothing wrong, but we see things differently. It is wrong, however, that the proposers of the point today re-manage the data and mislead the public, since in their explanation they hold virtually none of the above. The fact is that the health sector of concessions is currently poorly regulated, which has led to different practices in the award of concessions. The existing system entails significant corruption risks, criteria, when and under what conditions the concession is granted. Therefore, concessions are often awarded on the basis of friendly and other connections and not in fact the needs of the health system. The bill does not put the concessionaire in a worse position than public health institutions, but rather puts all potential concessionaires in the same position as the possibility of obtaining a concession. The ones with better connections will no longer have the advantage. Nor does the new law abolish existing concessions, nor does it tolerate new financial obligations. In practice, we can pay the level of services we have from the Treasury Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, and under the same conditions, both public institutions and concessionaires will receive money; the relationship between them does not directly affect the final consumption. Concessionists will therefore not be put in any worse position than public health institutions, as they will continue to carry out health activities on exactly the same terms and conditions, so that both will be financed under the same conditions as today. The draft law thus provides that concessions will be awarded according to the needs for services compared to the capacity offered by the existing network of operators. Investing in new capacity for services that can be fully covered by existing capacities is uneconomic and constitutes poor governance with public funds. Social Democrats advocate public health. All residents must be able to meet their needs for quality and timely health care independently of their material situation. In our firm conviction, however, this can only be achieved by the public health system. Human health – and it must not be the market goods where some create profits, so the Social Democrats insist that a clear distinction be drawn between public and private health activities, as money spillage and the enrichment of amphibians must end, i.e. private people who are rich at the expense of public money. Privatisation of the health system and the equalization of public and private health care lead to unequal treatment of patients, which means differentiated quality in relation to patients to social status and unequal accessibility. We are committed to an effective, high-quality, responsive and sustainable healthcare system for all, based on the tradition of solidarity, reciprocity and justice, aimed at preventing and early detection of diseases, as well as more effective treatment. Such a health system is one of the foundations of the social state. The Social Democrats stand firmly behind the coalition agreement, which stated that we will prepare a new Health Action Act, where we will, inter alia, separate publicly from private health activities, set clear criteria for a public health network and regulate the area of award of concessions in a way that we will award them on the basis of a fixed-term tender only where public health institutions cannot provide the intended scope of services. This is how we will focus our efforts on the adoption of such legislative changes in the health field, on which people and not lobbies will gain this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u43	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u44	President, thank you so much for your word. Three things are essential to Slovenian citizens in the debate on health activities. First time. Will this country continue to support concessionaires and other private operators to the detriment of the public health system and thus to the detriment of the vast majority of citizens? Another time. Who represents the public interest in this debate and who represents the private interest? And for the third time. What measures would actually provide our people with better health care? The answers are very simple, but I will go into more detail at the following points. For starters. Will the state continue to support concessionaires to the detriment of public health? This is a question that we must focus on the ruling coalition. In the coalition agreement, however, three very specific promises were made: the distinction between public and private in order to eliminate systemic and corruption risks, the establishment of criteria for the adoption of a public network where the situation of health homes is consolidated. Moreover, concessions will only be awarded on the basis of public invitations to tender for a certain period of time, only where the public health institution cannot provide sufficient services. In September, the Ministry of Health was able to prepare a draft amendment to the Health Act, which is about to go in the right direction, but this draft has not yet been addressed by the Government. In view of this and on the basis of the discussion by the coalition Members on the Committee, I am of the opinion that this law does not have the broad support of the coalition. Again, it is shown that some of the most advanced programming points of this coalition are found mainly in us, socialists in the United Left, their own coalition and their own parliamentary groups turn their backs on them. That's too bad. Here, too, I expect them to withdraw under the pressure of the Medical Chamber and the organization of private doctors. Today's debate may demente me, which I would be very happy to do, but for the time being it shows that the country will continue to be more on the concessionaires' side than on the side of public institutions, which of course is wrong. Furthermore, it is obvious that the SDS and NSI have divided their work for health care. NSI specializes in health insurance. Her proposal for a so-called reform is a recycled version of a document addressed to the Strategic Direction of Slovenian Health for an Exit from the Crisis, published by Fides, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and the Association of Private Doctors – the interest of commercial insurance companies is, of course, in the background. The SDS has taken over the performance by concessionaires and doctors who receive salaries in public institutions, while the bonuses are marketed in private companies, of course, if only by public means – I am talking about the emergence of so-called physicians of amphibians. As the coalition will be defined, we will see when the law comes into effect. If it is about the same as the current draft shows, it will make me very happy because this black coalition of medical elites, right-wing insurance companies and international capital must be opposed. And he needs to be resisted immediately before they break down this public health system that we have left in the first place. This means that we must stand up to an alternative that is the development of a public system that is accessible to all people. To this end, at least three conditions must be met: we need to increase investment and health services resources; we need to start planning staff and investments according to the needs of the population; and, of course, we need to stop the wild distribution of concessions. Who's gonna make us believe that these three conditions aren't attainable, but that's absolutely not true. The funds would be increased by the abolition of supplementary insurance and by the taxation of capital and capital revenues. This would increase the revenue of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and the funds for investment. Both are fairly clearly enshrined in the coalition contract and are solutions that are significantly more socially fair than the current supplementary health insurance. The basis for the planning of the public network is grave and largely made and could eliminate bottlenecks in the field of magnetic resonance and similar diagnostics with greater investment. They get a little more involved in the issue of specialization. We know that in Maribor, for example, a critical lack of anesthesiologists, the oncology department is still not functioning normally, so it is necessary to transfer the competence to another body for the invitation to specialise. Well, and this solution and measure is gravely provided for in the coalition agreement, where it reads – quote: "To redefine the powers of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and to regulate the field of specialization." End of quote. According to our legislation, primary health care is responsible for the municipality and, for the rest, the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, development in our health care will not be possible as long as local and state authorities can avoid this obligation by simply granting concessions instead of investing prudently in public institutions. In our view, therefore, in the view of the United Left, long-term concessions are not necessary, but in the shortest possible time, as this draft government novel foresees, it is necessary to abolish those concessions that have been awarded to the detriment of the public interest, and these are, we know, huge. In the United Left, we are committed to public service being carried out by public institutions, where the founders must ensure all conditions for work and development. That this position is the only right and meaningful one also confirms more than 20 years of private health practice in Slovenia. First, it should be asked whether the Slovenian health system is better because of concessionaires. If we look at the data, we can see very quickly that this is not the case. In 1997, concessionaires spent 6% of public funds. Now this percentage has risen to 14%. However, the availability of services has not increased as a result, nor would the waiting period, of course, be extended. If the increase in concessions increases the availability of our health care, then we need to ask ourselves why, for God's sake, then our waiting periods are prolonging. Perhaps the best example of this inefficiency is found in dental care. The far largest proportion of concessionaires and private individuals in general is in dental care. And if concessionism were any solution, then our dentistry would be the best part of the health system, but in fact, it's the opposite. The latest analysis of the Slovenian healthcare system has shown that the most unmet needs of patients are in the field of dental care. I could continue to go here, listing more similar data, but my point should be clear by this point. Concessionism is not part of the solution, but it is part of the problem. Concessions did not complement the public system, but represented competition. As the number of concessionaires increases, the total number of doctors in our system is not increasing, but the number of doctors in the public sector is decreasing, and, of course, the funds that could be invested in this public system are being drained from the public sector. And practice shows us something else. Concessions are not the solution to alleged corruption in the public system. The granting of concessions alone poses a high risk of corruption. This is also confirmed by the reports of the competent authorities. For example, in 2006, the Court of Auditors issued a summary report on the granting of health concessions. This report found that concessions are granted without criteria, without invitations and without effective supervision. After that, the Ministry finds that, even after this concession report, the concessions were generally issued without a call for tender. In 2013, the KPK study on physicians of amphibians revealed ways of draining public funds and evading species through private operators. And once again, I repeat that under the current law, anyone who has met the very minimum conditions for carrying out the activity has been able to obtain the concession. And that the congregations and the Minister of Health were, of course, completely free of charge and free of charge. Perhaps the most notorious case is the case of former Minister Bručan, who is to grant as many as 50 concessions in one night, November 2006. Not to mention that concessions were even sold and almost always issued for an indefinite period of time. Even Luka Koper, Ljubljana Airport have a limited right to use public infrastructure, and this is unfortunately not the case with doctors at the moment. In short, practice confirms what we know in advance. Doctors don't open private practices for humanitarian reasons, they don't open them up because they want to run their own bookkeeping and work with the administration, but they don't open them up much because they earn much more than they would otherwise earn in the public system. Health companies don't invest in equipment either, because they don't know how terribly interested they are in the welfare of patients, but because it's obviously a profitable investment. If we only remember what the former Minister of Finance, Dr. Chufar, pointed out in his statement when he volunteered for the meeting with President Pahor in July 2013. Because of plasticity, I will quote: "First we will privatise state-owned companies, then we will be able to do what is called true privatisation in the world, namely the privatisation of health and education." In health activities a margin is created, a surplus that makes this activity profitable. With each concession, our public system loses this surplus, so we need to build a health system without concessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Ms Jelka Godec has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Erika Girl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you. What we have heard in the views of the parliamentary groups is, on the one hand, a preference for these recommendations, which are nothing so terrible as Mr SMC said we are afraid. We don't scare anything. The recommendations are perfectly normal. As has already been said on the committee, they are, in fact, in implementation somewhere, so this is no intimidation. The next thing is to support concessionaires or concessionaires who are part of public health. I must tell the representative of the United Left, and also the SD in one piece, Comrade Kordish, he will get his ears, but, dear God, what are you saying, but he is for goodbye. That's what I'd say. First, look at what individuals are, what concessionaires are, what doctors are in public or in health homes. And then you talk about concessionaires as individuals who take money from you who take away patients who take away from you, I don't know what. It is best to abolish all private property, write private property in the constitutional no longer in Slovenia, we have everything in public. Now I'd like to ask you a question. Perhaps Mr Kordish has not been to the doctor in his life, and I would also ask if you ask citizens how many of them even know they are going to the concessionaire. One doesn't even know they're going to the concessionaire, because they don't pay anything in those basic matters, of course, which is more and more. Concessionists are part of public health. Where a healthcare home or an environment is unable to provide an additional doctor, I don't know, a family doctor, for example, finds a need, a concession can be awarded. And if you're saying now that we're not helping patients with the concessionaire, Mr. Kordish, I don't understand you at all. If there is a need for a family doctor in an area, because public health cannot provide it, and it is obtained by concession, that means that so many and so many patients are provided because otherwise they would not be. Of course, it is the concessionaire who is private because he invests private capital because he acquires all the equipment with his capital and so on, but is part of a public network and is not private. When you get to the concessionaire, you won't be paying for it when you say good day, just like you're paying the private to just look at you and pay you, but it's a completely different thing. Let's split up. Disengage everything in private! Then we're really there 1918 or whenever. The best thing to do is to make a revolution and end it all privately, and then we'll be waiting in line in health homes to come to a hearing, in some areas. A colleague from the SD who spoke earlier said that the Slovenian Democratic Party had forced this point. We didn't force her to do anything. We put it exactly in the procedure. I don't know if anyone on our side pressured the President of the National Assembly to put this in a session. We didn't force it. It's a democratic process. We put it in the procedure. The Emergency Medical Aid Regulation was just a rule that we do not even accept in the National Assembly, but it is not a law that we considered three times as a draft on the Committee and once in the National Assembly, that is to say at this meeting. There were no comments. Even more so, at the meeting of the National Assembly, we adopted recommendations for the Ministry and it was a regulation, namely in the draft. Today, when the Health Act is in the draft, but it's forced, it's pressure, I don't know what it is, but there's only one treatment. I think words like that, that we're forcing you to avoid those words, because it's not forced, it's just a normal procedure. Even the SD, even I don't know, DeSUS can put in the procedure some recommendations, the law, anything. I don't allow myself here as the proposer of the point to say that I forced the matter. Then also, as far as we're concerned, we're deceiving that nothing we're saying is true. The Health Activity Act in its Article 6 states that Article 44 shall be amended to read as follows: The Concession shall be granted for a period of up to 15 years. I didn't say anything more than that. Where was I?Oh, my God! What does it mean for a period of 15 years? Why determine this duration? And to say that it is necessary to do it for a certain time. We don't really need that. The Public Private Partnership Act 71 contains you, the duration of relations, the award of concessions and so on. Even under the directives of the European Union, it is not appropriate or advisable to write down the duration of the award of the concession in the law, but to record it in the concession act. And once again, the Law on Public-Private Partnership, you have Article 71, you can read what it says about the duration and award of concessions to grant concessions for a certain period of time. Why have they now been given for an indefinite period of time, and let those, the revision of the Ministry of Health or those services responsible, determine and those anomalies are eliminated. That concessionaires do not do well, some, is also clear to many and needs to be remedied here. Did you do any of this?Oh, my God! Has anyone done an audit, an audit report of the current concessions? Probably nobody, because if you did, you'd get this audit report. In fact, I can say, on average, that we all talk about how some people are not doing well, how they were awarded concessions and so on, and no one has done this audit. It would therefore be appropriate for the Ministry of Health to review the current state of concessions. Why they were granted for an indefinite period of time if you are well versed in Article 71 of the Law on Public-Private Partnership, that you should conclude for a certain period of time. The second paragraph of Article 71 of the Law on Public-Private Partnership provides for the stability and security of investment, that is, how long the concession should also depend on stability, security and efficiency, i.e. security financing. In fact, it is necessary to look at how long some concessions should be granted because they must not be granted for a certain period of time. Which are the years that are appropriate, probably not for every 15 years, can be more or less. Writing this into a law basically means some inflexibility, a greater flexibility would mean writing it in a concessional act. These are, for example, our comments. The next thing is a review, that is, what I have already said, a revision of existing relations. In the proposal for a Health Action Act, in 11. The Article provides that concession contracts concluded before the entry into force of this Act and also after its entry into force shall be brought into conformity within 24 months with the provisions of the law. Therefore, a review of existing relations should be carried out, but the revision does not yet mean that matters are changing. Any changes will take place after these audits, whether you have any explanation as to what you will do with those concessionaires who have contracts contrary to the law, both the Health Act and the Public-Private Partnership Act. But there's something else to be warned about. The Law on Public-Private Partnership in its provisions, the transitional provisions did not provide for the harmonisation of concessions with amendments to the law. The same is true if the Law on Economic Public Services and, for example, the Law on Non-economic Public Services are amended. In fact, the matter is quite logical, because in fact the change in the concession contract is kind of a unilateral act in law. I would ask the Ministry of Health to state what will happen after the revision of the existing concessionaire relations. In what way will they save those who find that they are not in harmony with the law? That's the first thing. That's another thing. How will you determine why you set a 15-year deadline for all concessionaires, regardless of where they work? In fact, we believe that this is a very inflexible provision and that it would be better to establish this in the concession act. And there's another thing. Article 41(4) of the Proposal for a Health Act provides that a concession may be granted to a legal person only if the sole or majority owner of the legal person is responsible for the health activity and that the concession ceases if these conditions change. However, the second paragraph of Article 42 provides that the concession may only be granted to a natural person at the primary level of health activity. These provisions are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which guarantees the freedom of economic initiative in the first paragraph of Article 74, which means, inter alia, that a legal entity may freely choose the legal and organisational form within which it will operate. So I'm wondering, where did this essentially determine that the exact legal form must be given in order to be able to obtain a concession? Yeah, it's kind of a question for the government, and it's also a comment to all those who said that it's just a draft and that you're essentially leaning towards this or your thinking that concessionaires are pure private.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! It is clear that public service in the field of health has been operated since 1991 by both public institutions and private-law operators with concessions. And only together are the public health system. The fact is, they have both their advantages and their weaknesses, but they are complemented and well complemented. Of course, public health will not and cannot endanger the award of concessions. The granting of concessions is not a privatization of health care, but is a state permit for work, for the work of private doctors in the public health network. Well, this work permit is not well arranged and, above all, it is not transparent. Concessions are not granted on the basis of clear criteria, they are not granted on the basis of clear rules, there is no good control and there are no measurable indicators of efficiency and the quality of private work. It is right to grant concessions when there is a need, a reason. However, it is not right for concessions to be granted only at the request of individuals. And that's reality today. The fact is, we are faced with a lack of standards and rules. This is contrary to the public interest and this increases the risk of corruption. It is precisely because of the unanimity of the legal bases and criteria that the award of the concession depends many times on the local level on the will of the mayor or the current municipal administration, and probably on the state level on the minister. So we have a problem, but we also have a solution. I think the Minister is aware of the need to protect public interest and has accordingly drawn up legislation. But we ran into a problem right away. My question is – why? I think it's because everyone probably wants things to stay exactly the way they are, and there is no great need for change except at the declaration level. My colleague Vrtovac has repeatedly stressed health reform, how much it is necessary, how very urgent it is, although he probably also does not know what reform is. In Novi Slovenija you write yourself that in Slovenia the health system is in poor condition and that there have been no key major changes for decades. Decades. And you know what? That's true. In Slovenia, nothing has actually changed in the healthcare system since 1991. We all agree that changes are necessary, urgent, we are talking about comprehensive health reform, but when something starts to happen, everything is immediately wrong. Why? Why did nothing and nothing change in all these years and all these governments, including you, run it? In the SDS, you stress the fear that concessionaires will no longer decide on this form, because after 15 years they will be able to complete the case. You say there will be no guarantee that they can continue their work, even though they have invested a lot of money in it. True, there will probably be no guarantees, but – who in this country today has a guarantee? How the entrepreneurs have a guarantee, an economy that guarantees them that after 15 years they will still be able to work, actually after one year, who guarantees them that they will be able to work. It is true that concessionaires are part of public health, but I think they also have a financial interest, otherwise concessions would be granted only and only where there is a need, but not even a personal interest. In Novi Slovenija, you are especially aware of the lack of dialogue. Now I don't know what the lack of dialogue is for you, but I will introduce you, say, only through the dialogue that took place with the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. Together with the Ministry, they met 20. Ten. 2014, 30. Ten. 2014, 17. 12. 2014, 20. 1. 2015, 7. 1, 10. 6 / 8 7, 20. 11. - Not enough communication? I don't know, like who. How important this topic is today for New Slovenia, perhaps also shows the fact that until now there was no member of your Parliament in the Chamber, but now you are alone, Comrade Vrtovec. I took a little look at the articles from the past on this subject and found that it has been a very hot topic for many years, in fact, ever since. In 2009, a work article entitled Politics expresses its power completely unworthy: "The Slovenian medical profession has in recent days been placed on the graves because of unacceptable developments in the design and adoption of the Health Act, which is harmful both to the system and to its employees, and especially to patients. This event puts the Ministry of Health, and with it the whole government in all previous positions of envy," they wrote, "it is obvious to the Ministry of State that it is not democratic, shortsighted, that it is professional, quality and safe to work in health." At the time, she was president of the Medical Chamber of Gordana Kalan Žrčec. Similarly, the medical concessions have caused problems: "Because of the irregularity in the award of concessions in basic health activities between 2000 and 2006, public health institutions have become in difficulty, the Court of Auditors finds." At that time, the Court of Auditors revised the award of concessions during this period, including the Ministry of Health, 6 municipalities and health homes. They found that the Ministry had not defined appropriate standards, personnel, equipment and material for public health activities at that time, had not developed criteria for establishing a network of health activities at the primary level and had not produced a schedule of medical jobs in public health homes. At that time, in the parliamentary debate, SDS Member France Tsukati made it clear to the Court of Auditors that these topics had been addressed solely for political reasons. In 2008, SDS Minister Zofija Mazej Kukovic approved another 300 medical concessions just before the expiry of her term of office. I don't know, I would say that regulating health legislation is a very ungrateful job. That's probably what we all agree with. If it weren't so hard, in such a short time, Alenka Bratušek would not have replaced so many ministers. It has also been a specific time in the role of Minister of Health, of course it has not regulated the areas and is now the first in the line of criticism. The fact is that the area of concessions is chaotic, it is necessary to regulate both the tendering and the award of concessions and, of course, the supervision. All of this needs to be aligned with the Public-Private Partnership Act. Today's debate, whether we want it or not, is premature, we have a working draft, as we have heard many times before, it will change substantively and therefore it is very difficult to talk, at least I am having a hard time discussing the content that is not yet. I believe that at the Ministry they will incorporate in the new law all the meaningful initiatives and proposals that they have received in the course of the public debate, we will talk about all this again in the National Assembly. I also know that the debate is likely to be similar because we are conceptually at odds with the regulation of the healthcare system in the field of concessions. But I believe that the law is going in the right direction, especially with a long delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Procedurally has Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u50	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear President, you also allow debates that go completely beyond the context of, say, now we have not witnessed any dialogue, some normal debate, but, above all, a gallant political account. What dialogue is not when a SMC lady speaks, is how we all picture dialogue. Look, this was not a classic example of dialogue, but it was mainly a gallant political account with the opposite political option. I regret that the National Assembly did not go beyond just being able to talk to one another. Now the lady is leaving this hall, she's done her part, and things are moving on. I believe that the tension of the largest government party is extraordinary, given the public support that it no longer enjoys, and also given that it leaves the Member Member of the Member SMC, for example today Mr Franc Laj, but nevertheless let us stick to some basic standards. The problem of the Slovenian health system is an extremely important issue where it is not necessary to use classical political accounts, but mainly to hold a long debate, on the other hand, citizens and citizens, patients who need this debate constructively, especially because of their own safety. Madam President, I would like to point out that the next time a lady from the SMC has one or the other reason for the matter and goes beyond the context of the debate, please note that you take away the word in accordance with the business terms.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! However, in the light of today's debate and the item on the agenda which is the proposal for a recommendation on the proposal for a Health Act, it could be pointed out, however, that if the proposer of this Act is the Ministry of Health in difficulty, in what form should the Health Act be submitted to the government procedure and, of course, later to the adoption of the National Assembly, it would be possible to consider taking advantage of the possibility of Article 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which allows for the preliminary examination of the law. So before it is accepted at the government, if you have a dilemma as expressed by the Minister of Health at the hearing of this item on the agenda in the State Council, where he says that the Health Act is still in the form of work materials, the public debate was held by the end of October 2015 and the comments submitted to the law are in the process of examination and, with regard to individual comments, will organise working meetings with individual stakeholders. So since October 2015 there has been a public debate, it has been concluded, but obviously there are problems with which form or content of the law should come to the Government and then to the National Assembly. I don't think it would be bad if we tried to talk about this earlier in the National Assembly. At that time, the opposition, the coalition, can all debate, but we are primarily discussing on the basis of relevant data, which, of course, is certainly more than the opposition has or is the Ministry of Health. The opposition shall use data available either from the media or from some of the discussions that have already been held or from documents that we have already adopted in the National Assembly. For some current situation, however, the Ministry of Health certainly has more data and if the relevant information on the health and health system is available on the table, which is what this law is supposed to say, then a better debate can be held in the National Assembly before it enters the formal procedure. Therefore, the debate on the working body is also possible, the legislative and legal service can give its position, in short, possible as just one advice or tool to think about how to proceed with this procedure. Otherwise, I think that when we combine a view of what is going on in the field of health care, we would probably come to interesting conclusions whether we are talking about people who need the help that the system needs to heal, whether we are talking more about how much money is needed, whether this money is being used properly or not. It seems to me that there is more to the problem and the debate about money than what people need and the system we offer them so that they can get better at the moment they get sick, of course. This relationship with people seems to me to be one that has been neglected in this recent period. We talk too much about how and what it takes to pay someone, rather than what people need. If we went back to this starting point, it would be much easier for us. The health system itself is not the other way around to collect money from people. Some of the starting points, I think we need to clean up. Of course, it would be much easier for us, and we would also become more efficient, and health care could certainly be more specifically organised. You are particularly affected by the fact that you also monitor the problem within the University Clinical Centre and when you find that even the youngest, the most disadvantaged patients we actually do not know how to take care of properly, there is something that certainly calls for serious discussion about how health care works and how this system works in Slovenia. The university clinical centre is only a top-notch representation of this condition. The fact that we do not yet have an orderly management of this university clinical center is simply a consequence of the obvious lack of talk about money about people. All of this is what we could actually discuss in Parliament to a large extent, even in this case, in the so-called preliminary treatment of relevant data, what is actually happening within this activity, so that no breakthrough in the direction of people's needs is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u54	Madam President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! At the outset of the debate, I would like to say that I strongly agree with the debate and the views of my predecessor, Mr Webra, who has made quite a few concrete proposals or his views on the current health system. I believe that the health sector today should be in addition to the area of finance and security between the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But somehow I have a feeling as a member of the government that somehow everything is being hunted here, living from day to day, looking for some temporary emergency measures, somehow putting out the fires, but we're already on fire. Thus, of course, I miss more activity, including the Ministry's response. When we talk about intergenerational solidarity, I must say that social policy and health policy in the Republic of Slovenia are highly intergenerationally inconsistent, unfriendly to young people, so there is still much work to be done here. Unfortunately, as a Member, I also note that there is no minister among us today, this is happening more and more and more times, and somehow I cannot agree with the Ministers underestimating or simply demolishing the National Assembly. I believe that the ministry has made sure that there are competent interlocutors here, all fair and proper, but still, this bitter taste remains, and somehow we feel that problems do not come to the right ears. If we are talking about the health situation in 2015, we can see that the most important step forward in this direction was the completion of 10 emergency centres across Slovenia. Otherwise, there are many problems, as we face a lack of well-educated and trained staff, and there is also a need to build two emergency centres or one in Ljubljana, and an emergency centre on Ptuj needs to be started. When we talk about health care and the existing health system, I particularly miss the inclusion of the demographic aspect and demographic trends. Over the last seven years, the ratio between the insured and the pensioner has dropped dramatically, from 1:1.7 to 1:37. This share is steadily falling, and this is why we will have to act in the future, I say with reform, and I do not agree to the discussion of some of the coalition's predecessors, who are today's debate, of course when we Members of the opposition and of the Slovenian Democratic Party have somehow prepared a concrete content, according to the data we can access, well-intentionedly, there is no subject to be seen to be anything, but just to warn that everything is being prepared as it should be, and I do not accept the debate of one of the predecessors who used this debate to attack our parliamentary group and the New Slovenia Group. I think such debates do not have room here, although I believe that frustration and anger are strongly present, because this breakdown of the parliamentary group is of course pain, is fear, is concern, but let these frustrations resolve in your parliamentary group behind closed doors and not by this now mark and tire us out because these scenarios are already somehow practiced from the previous mandate, at least I personally, if we remember Positive Slovenia. When we talk about health, I agree that we have a lot of excellent and very well-trained staff in Slovenia when we talk about doctors, nurses and other health workers. However, the management and management of this system, I can say, is catastrophic and does not meet some of the standards required today. There are a lot of reserves here, a lot of room for improvement, a lot of room for improvement is also in existing legislation. Just remember what happened at one of the last meetings of the Health Committee when we listened to the moralization and some sciences, as well as the emotional outflows by the then acting CEO of UKC Ljubljana. It seemed to me that we were in the circus, not in the National Assembly, or that such a person was running our largest health institution. So when a person listens, he creates his own opinions and, of course, we Members have to build a mirror more than once. At least I think we all have to build a mirror from time to time and ask ourselves if what we're saying is what we're doing. And what the minister says is clearly misleading, because what she's saying isn't what she's doing. This, of course, then fortunately somehow excited enough members of the government not to give their consent to Mr Baricic and that something might change. Although I must say that the traveller or backpack is quite burdened, of course he is. As a Ptujčan myself, as a Štajerc, I have been monitoring health and medical problems in our region since the beginning. I can say that for the emergency centre of Ptuj we had to literally fight, but of course we will clap on Ptuj and trust the government only when the emergency centre on Ptuj is built and when it will work. Until then, of course, we will keep a close eye on the government's activities and, of course, especially the ministries, and of course, we will assist in this project to the best of our ability. However, as another major problem, I would like to point out, because there is a lot of talk about concessions and public health in healthcare homes, much has also been said on the Health Committee, where the debate was substantively rich and at a level. In Styria you have to go as Styrian or I don't know if in Maribor, on Ptuj you want to go to a healthcare home, there's a waiting period for an oral surgeon to do two to three years. This is so well-sung public health care, and if we have good doctors, there is nothing to help us if we have those people who, of course, manage these systems, who are unable to ensure that doctors and that the system works in the best interests of the patient. If someone comes to the doctor and needs oral surgery with an oral surgeon and they tell him it's gonna be two years from now, I'm not gonna tell you what the patient thinks, but we can all be thinking about what to say here. I would like to continue with two problems that I have been facing most recently. One is the fact that one company was established in Postojna a while ago, which connected with Croatian operators who are advertising for work through Slovenian travel, so also through Slovenian money, which then flows to Croatia. It's for the oral surgery area, which is so hot. However, the Directive on the cross-border movement of health services applies to all specialist areas, of course, in this respect, not only to oral surgery. So now a doctor from Croatia invites Slovenian patients with passengers to go to Croatia and the Institute of Health Insurance to pay back to these operators in Croatia as much money as they would order to the Slovenian concessionaire. However, of course it is necessary to know that this operator in Croatia has no control over this service, is not controlled and, of course, does not have any contract. This is how the taxpayer's health money flows to another country, and in many cases we do not even consider or grant concessions, which, of course, also increases waiting periods. Really, of course, it's hard to understand. According to my information, the Minister has been aware of this for a long time, but, of course, she is not here today and because she is ignoring something, I will say, representative organizations in the field of health and, of course, dental care, and allow me to summarize somehow the position of the Association for Maximal and Oral Surgery of Slovenia. We all know that the waiting periods for oral surgery in Styria are two to three years, or allow me to continue with the next. “We have been monitoring unpleasant events in relation to the lack of oral surgeons in the Maribor region for 1 year. And since there is still nowhere to be seen, we have decided to inform you in detail about the current situation. The problems arose when three oral surgeons resigned in early April 2015: Dr. Vogelnik in the Ptuj Health House and Dr. Jager and Dr. Josipović in the Maribor Health House. This was a severe blow for the health care of the entire region, which the doctor failed to perform easily. It is therefore necessary to ask what was the cause of their resignation. If you have read the contributions of Gorazd Sajka, head of dental activities at Maribor Health House in the evening, you certainly feel that it is three unconscious, lazy, simultaneous individuals who do not care for the public good. Of course, the truth is slightly different. All three individuals have repeatedly warned of poor working conditions in both health homes years before their resignation. Not only were the offices poorly equipped and they could not find a common language with the management of health homes, nor was the money for the opposite education from anywhere. They were prohibited from carrying out certain interventions, and more programmes were included than they were obliged and able to carry out. Since their warnings and requests in health homes ran into deaf ears, colleagues wanted to continue their journey as private concessionaries. It is said that they would continue to be part of public health, but without the restraints they felt in health homes. For the state and patients, the situation would remain unchanged. The three specialists could still go to the same extent as before, the difference would be that the concession money for the implementation of the State or the Health Insurance Office would not be directed to the healthcare home but directly to the private. In short, that's it. This would not be a novelty at all, since the specialty of oral surgery except in Maribor, Ptuj and Novi Gorica is organised everywhere in Slovenia as a private concession activity, which has proved to be much more effective and useful. Oral surgeons themselves allocate money from the concession and pay with it additional equipment and necessary education. And in health homes, this money basically goes into the bottomless bags. Mostly because it's not like that everywhere. In health homes in Nova Gorica is a good organization, oral surgeons are pleased. Why would we change that? It's not like that in Styrian. Of course, this concession money is the main reason why health homes do not want to release concessions. Thus, Dr Vogelnik wrote his first application for the transfer of the concession in 2011 and received a response not to foresee the dissemination of the programmes. The explanation that it is seeking only to transfer the concession came across a deaf ear. Then, this year, the Institute of Health Insurance, unannounced and unexpectedly, as in Slovenia, unfortunately the standard, extended the programmes of oral surgery, says, provided payment for a larger number of interventions. You think that's what happened to those who asked for it? Of course not. However, they were received in both health homes and then forced by their colleagues to work overtime to pay EUR 13 per hour in a shameful manner. Mr. Josipović then went to the Medical House of Maribor for a planned hip surgery, which he had pointed out several months earlier. During his absence, there was no substitute, and his program was conveniently hung by Dr. Jagru, which would have been a challenge even for legendary Stakhanov. After a few months, Dr. Jager burned down, due to a constant unnatural posture, he began to ants in his hand, he had a proven neurological failure, and he went to the hospital. The result, they marked him as a simulator and hung him from the detective's neck. At this stage, colleagues at the regular spring meeting consulted with the management and members of the Association for Maximal and Oral Surgery of Slovenia, and after presenting the problem and all options, agreed to resign. In doing so, they agreed, of course, that the association would do its utmost to help prevent human health from suffering and, of course, to transfer concessions from health homes. And this is where the saga actually begins. Instead of reacting immediately, as a relatively large region of Slovenia is poorly provided, it prefers to remain silent. In particular, we have written twice to Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, 14. 8 and 18. 11. 2015, where we have literally asked her to act. Unfortunately, however, the Minister reacted as many medical organisations have pointed out, and she did not respond, although, as Sabina Markolio, president of the Committee on Dental Health at the Medical Chamber, the solution by transferring concessions from both health homes to three concessionaires is extremely simple, and for some it is simply terrifying. In the health care homes of Ptuj and Maribor, rescues took place in their own way, temporarily employed a young specialist in oral surgery and retired professor of maxillofacial surgery. There's also an oral surgeon working on Ptuj from Murska Sobota. In Maribor they even hired a retired paradontologist, which is an inappropriate specialty for this kind of pathology. But you can sleep in peace. In an interview on the radio, Prime Minister Sike explained that this was all okay and acceptable. It is strange, then, that professional medical organizations disagree with him. But these are always temporary solutions. As a permanent solution, however, in health homes they consider the import of foreign specialists and the call for new specialisations. We have nothing against foreigners, but it is extremely unnecessary and actually foolish to import foreigners, but in Styria we already have three unemployed and well-trained domestic oral surgeons who want to work in a public network, but not in health homes anymore. The call for new specialisations means a new unnecessary financial burden for our country and for all of us taxpayers. In addition, it would take more than five years to create new specialists from the specializations awarded, but it will take longer. Simple, logical and rapid solutions for the transfer of concessions from health homes directly to concessionaires are supported in the Association for Maximal and Oral Surgery of Slovenia, at the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and the Dens Dental Syndicate, in short, in responsible professional organizations. They are also increasingly leaning towards it in the health insurance institution, as they carried out extraordinary medical technical supervision at the Maribor health house, where they discovered irregularities and also proposed professional supervision. However, all the professional organisations mentioned above are powerless, because they can only give expert opinions and, of course, they decide elsewhere at the Ministry. So the Ministry of Health is on the move. We ask ourselves, however, that the Ministry will rather decide to save healthcare homes than the health of people in Styria. And these health homes that have and are still having problems with the oral surgery program. Are we really going to impose new specialties on citizens and unnecessarily import foreigners while we have three unemployed Slovenian oral surgeons in Styria? Where or where does the arrogance of some of the leaders in health homes and in the ministry reach? I'm sorry. I know I've been a little longer. I just read it. The fact is that the Minister does not respond acts as if there are no problems. I expect that this will finally be heard and that something will finally be resolved. And that wasn't my writing, but I said I'm quoting the Association for Maximal and Oral Surgery of Slovenia, which is signed by Dr. Aleš Vesnaver. I think it's representative enough and professional enough. At the same time, I would like to say that the realization of concessions in these health homes is very poor, sometimes even half. We will not allow this concession to be moved to Celje or elsewhere. We will fight for this and expect a response within a certain time frame, as well as a response from the Minister of Health, if not, but we will have to meet again at some urgent meeting of the Health Committee, where I believe that the debate will be much more varied than my reading here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor. Get Mrs. Maria Bachič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u56	Hello, Vice President, dear colleagues and representatives of the Ministry! First of all, let me say that I certainly welcome any debate on a subject that is extremely important. And let me just define myself, as it has now been presented, that there is a certain problem that we see as acute and difficult, at least as presented, and that it does not respond to it. If that is the case, then it is certainly necessary to say that this is wrong and that this should begin to be regulated. However, I do not think it is right that it is simply said that this meeting is necessary because of the recommendations that the applicant has made, and that we have also rejected them with our left hand on the Health Committee, because these recommendations, at least I understand them, are intended, however, to be well aware of the purposes and objectives of the proposed amendments to health legislation before the Slovenian public at all, in this case a specific law should be immediately discredited by the Minister, her service, and presented in public as an incompetent person - or the Ministry - for the preparation of any legislative changes, except the Health Act, which is one of the most important legal bases of our health. Thus, these recommendations make proposals to the Government to examine the comments of the Medical Chamber and include them in the law. So this is part of the recommendation, which is actually the main part. And first, the question is why only and only the Medical Chambers. Why does the applicant so openly stand up to this professional or, rather, professional or ceho medical organization. In the media, I have seen expert opinions from the Chamber, which are highly favoured by doctors who act as concessionaries. It was even heard that concessionaires were more effective, that they were more friendly, that they were more professional than doctors in public institutions. And I wonder if the members of the Medical Chamber are just concessionaries or not doctors in the public health network, so whether they are therefore incompetent, ineffective, even rude. The applicants noted that the proposal for a law was made in secret. Well, I think this debate already denies it today. I think that if a total of 30 comments and proposals, including the Medical Chambers, have been received on the working proposal for the widest possible collection of comments and proposals from stakeholders, then perhaps the implementation of the Ministry of Health has not taken place in secret. Moreover, the chamber was invited and involved in the cooperation, we have heard. Well, how serious this invitation was in the Chamber and, after all, also the duty they have under the Medical Services Act shows the fact that they are not in a hurry to respond to a joint agreement with the Ministry of Health. It took them six weeks to send the members of the working group to the Ministry, and I would say that this is not too much of a drive if I thought that, on their behalf, the proposer would now explain how the law was prepared in secret and that the Medical Chambers had not been invited to participate. By making such an explicit claim to the rights of concessionaires alone, the applicant shall state another major non-reality, which must be denied immediately. It says: “In our opinion, the Ministry did not take into account the consequences that the abolition of concessions would have on human health.” The termination of concessions – this is not only written once in this proposal by the proposer or in this recommendation. I think that you are working with this Medical Chamber one left service, because the opinion of the Medical Chamber is certainly important, but now everything looks as if the Chamber has distanced itself from the cooperation and has stood on the trenches, which is certainly not the best for this law. Concessionists are a very important part of the health system, and in the SMC we can't possibly think of concessions being abolished, which is how he wants to show up. However, we also want order to be made in the areas of concessions, distribution, duration, conditions and the like. This is also the purpose of this law. That too, not just that. Of course, we do not deny that our commitment to the electorate is that concessionaires are part of a public health system that complements a public health network where healthcare cannot be organised differently. I repeat the sentence that the proponent has said here before us. Of course, there are many things that need to be regulated in public health institutions. Let me respond to another statement presented here. The proposer says they're afraid we're going back to the path of the socialist health system. It may not be too much to point out that in the hard socialist times at UKC under Dr. Kornhauser's leadership, the first unit for intensive child therapy in the children's surgery clinical department, which was then one of the largest and best equipped non-Yugoslavia, in Europe. Where this department is today, I'm sure you'll understand. I therefore stress the need for a wide range of arrangements in public health institutions as well. And to conclude, perhaps with one significant sentence he said, we heard him, Dr. Andrej Trampuž. He said, "Heal every patient as if he were your family member. It is so easy to establish a top-notch system." I believe that doctors who think so are very large, so that's their most important patient. And if so, then they will advocate that a good health system be included in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bačič has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič, followed by Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, everyone in the hall! I agree that the health system in Slovenia also needs to be recast as a result of the changing changes made. However, when it comes to renovations, there must be a very clear goal, where and what we want. We all certainly want to preserve public health, accessible to all citizens, regardless of the material situation of the people. All citizens must have equal and timely access to health services. We must be aware that due to the increase in the proportion of the elderly population and various accompanying diseases, improved survival, increased awareness of people, the Slovenian health system faces increasing needs and expectations. I'd like to touch a basket of health services here. I think we should add this basket to it. Complemented with preventive services, here I see early treatment of children with developmental disorders, which need regular treatment of professionals not only once a month but more frequently as infants. I think certain disorders and problems will also be popular if they are not completely resolved. Then I see a further ageing, ageing society facing various diseases such as dementia, Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease. As I follow up on the media, experts say that these diseases can also be detected by certain interventions, such as X-rays of the brain, which early detect cognitive disorders. If, in addition to screening tests such as ZORA, SVIT and DORA, were included in the basket of these health services, such as X-ray imaging of the brain early enough, I am sure that many would limit or eliminate this serious disease. We're saying that even as good prevention is much better than curativa, which is also expensive. In recent times, we all face a lot of excitement as regards the area of concessions. It is true that certain irregularities have occurred in the past. Concessionists are, after all, part of the public network, complementing public health institutions and doing well, and patients are satisfied with them. However, there are always exceptions to marriage - seeking loopholes and health legislation. Here I believe that the control of legality and such anomalies must be determined and eliminated. We know that concessionaires have very much control: health insurance companies, tax inspections, labour inspections and so on. I believe that such anomalies and irregularities can be identified and acted very quickly. Both public institutions and concessionaires are limited in individual health services, for example, in the case of a gynecologist, the patient has the right to ultrasound twice a year, for example, I will say. If it goes and requires more than once, it has to pay, while in the public office it often does not. Well, he's got how many times, he doesn't have to pay, but it's true that you're both equal to the law. For the concessionaire, therefore, the third review is payable and not in the public office. Therefore, new, all new services that have been in force since 1968 should be evaluated. We believe that we must have the right to choose and to have quality health services, or to have a public or a right with the concessionaire. So I support a ministry that does not abolish concessions, but creates order in this area. It would also be useful to specify something when the concessionaire fulfils the standard of basic health insurance and several aspects of health insurance do not receive payment. I think it would be possible to look here at neighbouring Austria, where concessionaires are not limited to work. As long as they're working, they just get paid by health insurance. This may also remove waiting lines for us, since some fulfill the standard paid by the insurance company in November, then work self - paying, or go on vacation. Let me conclude with the desire that the new Health Act will bring order to all health care. The satisfaction of all of us, both the patients and those who provide health care, will not always be the subject of criticism, although they do their work well and well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u60	Möderndorfer, no. But okay. Let's go in one order. Today in this debate, I listen to a lot of misunderstandings and ignorance of certain concepts, so it is very difficult to talk because we really do not know what we are talking about. At least when I listened to the proposer on that side, I felt that, given that the proponents were going to clear up some of the concepts, but okay, they got mixed up and jumped here and there. I will not discuss this now, because it is right to clarify the following in this short time. What's working material? What is the draft working material? What is the draft and what is the proposal, I think we are mixing and, today, I have heard from a few Members and Members of Parliament, different what we really have before us. Here it would be nice if the ministry could finally identify what this document is, in fact, published on its website. I'm sure we've got about 31 steps before we get to the marriage. We are only now at step nine, which means that the final version of the proposal, which will go into the inter-departmental debate, must only be drawn up by the Ministry. That's about the way it is with every law of every ministry. Another problem is, of course, because we are mixing the next issue, which is when we talk about public health, when we talk about public health and when we talk about public health. We're all confused here in this national council. Public health. Does anyone know what the definition of public health is? Yes, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I doubt if they know. Public health is the science and skill of preventing disease, strengthening health and prolonging life by means of organised efforts by society. The definition of health by the World Health Organization is health, not only absence of disease, but also mental, physical, emotional and social well-being and well-being. This is where we leave off the "public health" nonsense. Of course, the public health network is something else. And here the proposer, although for some time there, was a bit of a catch on that side, was teaching what a concessionaire is and what not, and I see that the main problem of the Health Act is nothing but concessions. We have even seen that we have some personal problems with the personal problems of individuals, which I hope will not be the subject of public debate, because we must not build on individual cases, but on the entire value system. Of course, it is a problem that we always deal with private people and public health, and that is wrong. But let me tell you something, whenever it reached out to the concessionaires' debate, the doctors went crazy because they were afraid of losing their ratings. Do as they are, get a concession without a contract, get a concession for an indefinite time and be from here to eternity, to death only what it is. Even the problems of investing in private, yes, for God's sake, if you're a private, you'll be investing on your own, of course, the state won't invest anything in you. But it's true that if you go into the health system, it's called a public health network, but it's okay to pay for the program. But, unfortunately, usually that's the way it is, I'm going to get a concession, and then I'm going to go into investment, otherwise I'm not going to go private. And the problem of previous ministers, all of them, and all the ministers shared concessions to understand each other, the problem was that in the beginning they changed the word "concession" to "private" and that is a key problem. I would change the word "concession" because I have a problem. You know, there's no limit to the concession. I remember at the local level, by the way, the Municipality of Ljubljana and another small municipality are the only two municipalities that share concessions on the basis of a public invitation to tender. The only one. Yeah. Later, a few more congregations appeared, and then the matter ended; otherwise, they all exercised discretion. But what's more important than that is something else. And that's because we have a problem because doctors are afraid of change. They prefer to have a worse system, just so they know where they are. Therefore, I propose that we wait for the final text, which we will discuss in the National Assembly, may have sound proposals and, of course, also a clear picture of what the Ministry of Health is all about and how it intends to organise it or what its desire is. At that time, I believe we will have a quality debate because we will be able to talk about the facts. Today, we can only guess and imagine that we know something. We don't know what the Minister of Health thinks yet. Let's wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u62	Dear President, dear colleagues! Many truths before me have already been told by my colleague Jana, and in many ways I agree with him. First of all, the biggest problem is the preparation of this law of concessions. This has been found several times already today. This probably weighs most of the doctors. Allow me to read the record of the Public Health Coalition, which says as follows: "We are not surprised by the position of the management of medical organisations to propose amendments to the Health Act, which is intended to regulate the area of the award of concessions as well as the exercise and supervision of the exercise of concession activities. The Slovenian Medical Chamber strongly advocates an increase in the number of concessionaires because it claims that concessionaires are more efficient, more professional, more friendly and cheaper for society. They're asking if they represent all the doctors at all. When doctors working in public institutions will call and ask the management of the Medical Chamber not to treat them badly compared to the private." I think we need to talk about this today, who and who the Medical Chamber advocates. Let me stress once again, it will probably only happen in the end to the Ministry, what is the biggest rakrana, what the Ministry wants with this change of laws, of course in addition to other changes, this is transparent tendering and awarding concessions, that the criteria are clear back there, who, under what criteria can they obtain concessions, but not get them in so-called beautiful eyes. The problem, or discussion, is also about the granting of concessions for an indefinite period of time. This is contrary to the Public-Private Partnership Act. Why is that important? In particular, by ensuring the principle of ensuring long-term and medium-term openness to competition. However, the Ministry is also aware that the number 15 years, that this is the current proposal and that it is necessary to adapt in particular on the basis of several factors, is that this number 15 can be adjusted. In particular, it is necessary to take into account the sustainability and security of the investment offered by the concessionaire, the possibility of effective and secure financing of this investment to recover the deposits, as well as the need to implement the specific service proposed by the concession, and I believe that this ministry will also take account of this proposal. Now, of course, Mrs Alenka Bratušek is no longer, when in the beginning she attacked the Minister quite severely, that she had done nothing since she was in the ministerial chair. She used another rather inappropriate word, and I'm not going to repeat it. Obviously, Mrs. Alenka Bratusek does not want or wants to hear what the Minister has done. Above all, what I think is extremely important this year is the first time that the health budget has exceeded 100 million. She was negotiating for additional funds. Apparently, that's not an achievement for anyone. The additional funds are also provided for the next two years. Yes, it is true that the construction of the emergency centres did not begin during the time of the government of Mira Cerar. It is true, however, that investments in health care end without anexas and within a period of time, which may even be rare in such major projects today. She was able to prepare and successfully implement the second stage of the public invitation to continue building a diagnostic, therapeutic service in Ljubljana, whose construction cost five years. Yeah, five years. The Emergency Medical Aid Regulation introduces important innovations in accordance with global doctrines. It has also adopted or drafted a system law, adopted here, the Law on Investment in Public-Private Institutions, the founder of which is the State, the Government has adopted and sent it into parliamentary procedure and so on. So there's nothing going on. I am sorry that Mrs Bratušek immediately after her statement came out of the hall. The colleague also mentioned how many meetings were held, not only with the Medical Chamber, but also with the Slovenian Medical Society, Fides, doctors, dentists, health care and other health professionals, pharmacists. I have the dates specifically listed here, and I will not repeat them because, in the first place, the colleague of the girl has already mentioned them. Thus, the assertions that meetings are not held that the Ministry is closed for communication do not hold; I believe they will say so in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you very much. On the part of the coalition, especially the SMC, I have not heard any suggestions on how to proceed or what they are defending in this law. They keep saying it's a draft. We have heard that there are no obstacles to discussing the draft, that this is not an abstract matter, that we are talking about an abstract matter. I don't know if you have a draft in your hands that we all have, or if you're deceiving when you say we're talking about an abstract matter. Once again, we also discussed the draft in the Emergency Medical Regulation, and there was no problem in talking at three meetings and at a meeting of the National Assembly. As far as who guarantees the concessionaire that he will be able to work again in 15 years, or if the limit is 15 years for the concession, that is ok, because we can't guarantee even companies that they will work in a year or a month. Yes, my dears in the coalition, you, your Government must guarantee that the economy can work in a month, in a year, so that concessionaries can work so that public health can function. And if you say yes, because no one guarantees anything, we do not guarantee entrepreneurs now that they will be able to work, but it really does not matter about our love for Slovenia. And then we can also limit concessionaires to 15 years, and we say, look, we don't guarantee it, but 15 years might work. This is thoughtless talk, let's think about what you're saying. Even though you're doing all right, just keep your head up and tell me, we'll guarantee the concessionaires that they can work after 15 years. However, the issue for the Government, which is still silent, is after all this time of discussion, where the criteria for extending concessions are, after 15 years, where the criteria for what the criteria for extending the concession are are. Where is this written down, or where is this foretold? There are no such criteria anywhere, so that's a big question. I would also like to ask you, colleagues, who are so in favour of these 15 years or of investing in private persons, whether you would first acquire the basic funds and then apply for a concession. You can raise your hands to who it is who would do it if you just had to have it first – I agree that you have to have some material conditions and so on, but who will first invest so much and so many thousands of euros and then raise your hand and ask for concession at the Ministry. And he won't get it, let's say he gets it for 10 years, because it's also the idea that it's only 10 years. At the same time, it does not know what the extension criteria are. And what the colleague said before me is that the duration of the public-private partnership relationship is determined by allowing the public-private partnership operator stability, security, the possibility of effective, secure financing, investment and so on – there is no such thing in the law! No one knows what's going to happen to him. He didn't check any records. One more thing. The existing Health Act states in the second paragraph of Article 3: "Health as a public service are carried out under the same conditions by public institutions, health establishments and other legal and natural persons on the basis of a concession." Well, under the same conditions. At the time of entry into the European Union, we have arranged concessions, arranged in the Law on Public-Private Partnerships. The concessionaire has a specific period, i.e. for a certain period, the health concessionaire has an area where it works and a programme under which it operates. However, in Slovenia we still do not have a public institutions area where they operate, programmes they implement, and for what time. Now, with the new law, concessionaires are limited to 15 years, all the same, whether they are dentists or not, for 15 years. And now you're talking to me here about the same conditions between the public office and the concessionaire. Where are the same conditions here? Once again, we have saved concessionaires in a public-private partnership, it says here precisely, and what you are now saying is that it is necessary to arrange a time and so on, you already have it in marriage. And this new bill, the novelty, the draft, if you like, but I will say so, this abstract draft provides for you exactly the same, almost the same articles as in the Public-Private Partnership Act, even in conflict somewhere, because the Public-Private Partnership Act does not provide for a change of concessions under another law. And now, once again, you always say, concessions need to be arranged, they can't be for a certain time and so on, because it's already written in the law. When are we gonna set up a public network? When will they tell us what the criteria are for establishing a public network in the primary, secondary and tertiary areas in all these three areas? When? A colleague from the SMC is always on the boards saying that the public network is regulated and you have a coalition contract saying that the public network needs to be regulated. So it's not arranged. And when this public network is set up, then we can talk about what it does or how, what area, which programs, how many doctors and what we don't have in public institutions then concessionaires, and how much then, or private people, you probably won't put them in here. Tell me, what is the equal treatment of concessionaires and public institutions under the second paragraph of Article 3 of the existing Health Act? The novel will bring you into contradiction with this article. And once again, stop deceiving, and now you're deceiving the SMC when you're saying that it's necessary to arrange that there's not gonna be a concession for an indefinite period of time. That's what the law says. And first, make a revision of the existing concessions so that it will not be as Mr Möderndorfer boasts that only Ljubljana has for a certain period of time, there are other municipalities, other areas that they have for a certain period of time. So answer the irregularities, first or do the revision, and at the same time tell what will happen after this new law to those who now have concessions for an indefinite time, because now after the new novel, so the draft is written, and I find it difficult to believe that the draft will change until the end, because, as I know now the functioning of the Ministry and the Minister, it goes straight as a Fiakar horse and it doesn't care about anything at all, not those 25 comments, the Ministry said 30, a colleague from the SMC, that 25 different organisations had announced, however, more than 20 of them reported on these matters. So what will happen to those when the audit finds that they do not meet the requirements of the new law. What changes you're going to make, you don't have a record of this. What are you gonna do with these? Concessions taken? They said they had to go back to the nursing home or whatever. Then the following question: Where are the criteria for extending concessions after fifteen years? What financial and other stability do you allow the concessionaire in these 15 years and after these 15 years? Or if you don't want to talk about these 15 years, because this is a draft, we're talking after a certain period of time when someone has a concession. However, since you have all read something, I think you have all received it in the National Assembly, but you did not want to read it, because here it speaks about how this law is contrary to the principles of EU law, writes Adria Lab, d. o. o., private, d. o. o., writes the Health Committee: "Our company is 100 % owned by the German owner Sinlab, who is leading in Europe in the field of laboratory investigations. The implementation of the laboratory service is a market activity offered both in Europe and in Slovenia by public institutions and private operators, including us. We perform competitive laboratory services both in terms of price, quality and accessibility, so many concessionaires and also public institutions use our services to provide their patients with comprehensive, affordable and quality health services. The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Activities in Article 44(1) states the amendment in the field of diagnostic services: “Contracts on the common use of diagnostic, rehabilitation and other capacities of the public health institution. In this way, the law would actually make it impossible for us to provide competitive services to all health care providers in the public health network, which is a rabble that Sinlab has not yet encountered in any European country. This also proves that the solutions in the law are incompatible with the rules of the EU Single Market." Unanimity in the EU market rules law is another thing. And if you have read the directives of the European Union, then these rules of the Single Labour Market, not to list all the articles in this European Directive, you will see how much nonsense you have put into this novel and therefore so many comments. And that is why there is also a sharp response from the Medical Chamber, which also points to what I have told you before, that we do not have what we have for health care providers. Despite the fact that this could have been done long ago under the directives of the European Union. And that's because we don't have a public network. When you make a public network, this is also of interest to me, given that you have it in the resolution, that you have it in the coalition contract, that is still not the case. And I was going to add something, and I forgot. Mainly, the fact that the Minister does nothing is that he does nothing, for that, public stabilisation network, financial stabilisation and so on, those rules, see, what you are doing now, as has been said. First, the house is built. And once again, what is in the analysis of the state of affairs International analysis of the situation, which we have also received as working material for the next meeting of the committee, I have already said the last time, an analysis to make to tell you that public institutions in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of health are not well-managed, that we have poor management of public institutions. You don't have to have international research, you're just going to go take a look at it. We've been messing with this science for a year, but nothing's settled yet, it's still, Mr Baricič. Right now. Yeah, sure. He's still officially a candidate. The Council of the Institute has accepted nothing. Oncology Institute – we're still waiting for government approval. Four hospitals have science, they blink because they're political, and I don't know what kind of pressure, even though people are already there, I'll say, professionally qualified and so on. Yeah, Health Insurance, Mr. Fakin, too. And that is why we now need an international research to say that institutions are not well run, that they tell us that we are short of money and that public health care needs to be regulated, that it will be financially sustainable and so on. And you're dealing with concessionaires who are part of a public network, I agree, but a piece. When millions of money flies through our windows in the UKC, in hospitals where doctors, nurses tell us that we still have internal reserves, only things need to be looked at and done a little bit of revisions, work systemization and so on. Oh, no. Let us let concessionaires limit even more than they are limited because, once again, they have, under the EU Directive, according to our legislation, a specific programme, the scope of work, how long they can work and also an area where they can work. Medical homes still do not have this, even though we are in the EU, that this should be done under European directives, we do not have it. When are you gonna fix this? When are you going to set up a public network? That's the first question if that's how you advocate public health. I would ask the Government, after all these discussions, to just answer some questions and say, now that the Medical Chamber has finally come to the discussion because you said that this happened on 24 October or some such date was, I think, said, of course on 7 October, the Medical Chamber sent a protest letter to the Ministry to finally sit next to this law and then things started to happen. Not to mention how many letters are addressed to health homes, including the mayors of the Ministry of Health – after six months there is no answer, total ignorance. This is also evident in the National Assembly when the Minister of Health comes only when they are fine, beautiful subjects, or otherwise send a colleague who needs to listen to what she needs to hear. Not only to listen, to hear, but also to accept certain criticisms, good comments. I would ask if you could please answer how you will therefore provide the second paragraph of Article 3 of the existing Health Act when it speaks of working public health establishments and other natural and legal persons under the same conditions. How will you guarantee this with this novel? Where are the criteria for extending concessions after 15 years? How do you ensure financial, content and other sustainability or security? Please, without such a response as we have heard on the SMC site, that no one in this Slovenia is providing anything anymore, they are on the government and they provide nothing. These are three main questions. Can't you see that the amendment to the Health Act is covered by the Public-Private Partnership Act, which says exactly how to grant concessions? When and how, in what way will you review existing concessions and what are the changes for those who will not be satisfied with the amendment to the Health Act? This is what the concessionaires who have concessions for an indefinite period want to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Get Maria Antonija Kovacič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u66	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian healthcare is aware of extremely many problems and concessions are only one of the small problems in this whole problem that we have in the Slovenian healthcare system. The feeling, I agree, but the feeling of all this debate that is taking place today, on the one hand, on your side of the coalition, that this debate is completely unnecessary, irrelevant. On the other hand, it seems important and necessary. I think that whenever we discuss the health of an individual, no matter where, when, how, this debate is important. For health is one basic human value, which touches everyone, if not sooner, when he gets sick and needs an effective and good health system, that is, when he needs to be curated. But I must point out, we need to prevent it before we do. Because of this day is not thrown away as some think, you claim, but let it really be a contribution to the intention of the ruling coalition, on the basis of this draft, which is ready, trying to reverse or I will tell you where the draft of this new legislation is going. Now the course is wrong. Somehow, there seems to be an impression that, as I have said many times before, there is some kind of dialogueal conflict between concessionaires precisely with this restriction on 15 years of limitation. Let's get some clean wine, see, concessionaires are really contributing to the stabilisation of the entire health system today, they're part of public health. What will we gain by limiting them to 15 years? Nothing at all. However, I fully agree, Madam Secretary of State, that there is a need for a change of legislation here, it is necessary to begin to resolve control, better control, and all other things. But other fights, which would mean that people will no longer decide on concessions, that they will be concessionaires, is a problem. We need more concessionaires. We need even more private initiatives, including private initiatives. This debate is therefore extremely fruitful. And when there's an obvious dialogue, the feeling in this Slovenian public is that the ministry, I apologize, but it's not just my feeling, but the feeling of all the other stakeholders, the rest of the opposition, even the media, if you want, it's the feeling that the ruling coalition is playing as far as health care is concerned, some bunker, a jargon in football is called a bunker. So, a closed position where we will not accept any other proposals, which someone else will propose. We've got a certain axis, an act, and it's going to be all about that. What you suggest will not be taken into account. And that's not good. At least the discussion should be allowed. They say that the minister does not communicate that this is not just a problem today, but that it was a problem with the minister before she was a minister in her previous services. Look, it's nothing for a Slovenian citizen to be interested in. He doesn't care how the legislation changes. It is essential that there is an amendment to the legislation, that this legislation will be better for Slovenian citizens and without dialogue, that there will be no changes in the health system in this loving country. Take this debate today in the National Assembly in particular as a contribution to this dialogue to better legislation. The one presented in the draft is not good. For this reason, I will present one thing to you, and I do not want to be offensive to my colleagues in the SMC, Mrs Deklava, because there is no purpose of insulting and accounting, it really must not be me, but look, we have just begun with this document, measures to reform the health system and we have started a dialogue, a respected secretary of state. I'll tell you the way. On Friday we met with the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, which fully supported this. Yesterday we met with Mr. Fakin, who partly supported it. He made a lot of comments that we will take into account. Then next week, we have other shareholders again on Tuesday, and so on. We do not choose whether this is the Medical Chamber, whether this is a position, this coalition, no, all invited to discuss the proposal. However, I do not want this proposal to go ahead with the ruling proposal, the proposal of the ruling coalition. Indeed, this will not look good if the opposition has a ready-made starting point for health reform and has a dialogue between the stakeholders, but a ruling coalition does not. For this reason, let's be really quick that we don't get ahead of you in April with some coordinated proposal between all stakeholders. That won't be a good signal. The President of the government wrote: "Don't yawn, we're looking for solutions! Let's really look for solutions, no pitfalls, even in the field of the health system. In New Slovenia we really do not guarantee, so we have started to prepare these starting points, they are today in public debate, and the ministry is called upon to meet once, somewhere, I hope, as soon as possible, and to renegotiate also on proposals made by the opposition. Problems in the Slovenian health system. And I'm going to start with the boy Renee, and these days, on TV, it was shown how a boy walks beautifully, how he runs with his peers, how he plays football. This boy was diagnosed with being on his feet, and today the boy is walking. That's the problem with the health system. If someone in Slovenia had listened to our public health care, they would not have had the same childhood as others, totally unjustly. Because he lives in Slovenia, which does not have a regulated health system. And this is unfair to those who invest and pay in the Slovenian health system. And today Rene also with the help of donors, of course, with the help of donors, she normally lives her childhood. The problem of personnel has been mentioned, we have a staff pool for several years now, see, 7 000 employees in UKC Ljubljana do not have their leadership and we arrive at the anomaly when two hours before the meeting of the UKC Bureau meeting, the minister is calling around, at least so it was presented in public, and is looking for his candidate. Then we get one lady who accepts science again. That's not serious, that's not serious. Who's in charge? Who's in charge? And don't talk, we don't have a majority in the UKC. Six representatives of the UKC office were appointed by the Government and have a responsibility, but if you have no responsibility, then I don't know who these people you named there are. You're continuing with the director of the UKC. And you didn't set him up, you set him up first, Mr. Baricic, then the thing broke. And you have full responsibility in that. We've got ZZZS here. I think it's been a year of science. Someone who manages 2.3 billion euros of cash is in d. and it appears that Mr. Fakin has reenacted. And I say Mr. Fakin will be re-elected. And this is not a candidate for the ruling coalition, as it appears. Do you have an alternative? I'm asking if it's not your candidate to give you an alternative. This is not about 100 million, which is managed by the Ministry of Health, but more than 2 billion euros. This is why we are talking about the poor human resources potential of the ruling coalition. And yesterday, when we met with Mr. Fakin, you know, you need to get a better one, and I hope you don't get a worse one to be named. Let's get a better one. Otherwise, you'd better not come up with a proposal. And then we're back on waiting lines, waiting periods. These are the key problems that concern people. But if I go further, where there are problems: the very organisation of the system in individual public institutions, the lack of control over the resources spent, we have already talked about, not a fully defined network of public health activities, an indeterminate basket of rights, further, operators do not operate on the market, where it competes with initiative and quality, corruption and clienteleism, and the strong influence of stakeholders, in particular competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, on December 14th, I spoke with the German Minister of Health and asked him how he chose his insurance company, and she said, look, once a year, I decide where I will have compulsory health insurance and choose the best initiative, the best offer. And I want to live in a country where an individual will say for his own money, for his own money, I want to go to this and to this contractor, to this and this insurance company. And I will choose that insurance company that will offer me quality treatment regardless of whether this initiative is in the neighborhood, whether it is at home, abroad, away from the place of residence and so on. If someone pays for their own money in this health system, why don't you decide where he'll be treated, why don't you decide who his insurance company will be. For example, a German citizen can do it, a German citizen can do it, a German minister can do it. In Slovenia, of course, this is impossible. But there will be no mistake, as even the German health system or all health systems in Europe face severe problems, mainly because of poor demographic indicators. Politics is more adaptable to new changes in demographics and these problems, systems change from year to year, only with us are on certain socialist trenches where we say: Competition is damaging. Yesterday I heard from Mr Fakin, who said that competition was better, improved quality, and I thought I came from another planet. And Mr. Fakin is talking about internal competition between hospitals. It is also said that hospitals could also do business with profits to generate profits. And whoever doesn't make a profit makes a loss with a minus, even in hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, they were replaced in Croatia, I think, by six directors. The problem with us is to replace them, and then we wouldn't have them, that's the key problem. In Croatia, people were operating in a hospital with a loss, people took responsibility. I don't know why we are fighting this competition between health service providers. I hear that Mr Zorman, a respected colleague, will say further when he has the debate, what Vrtovec proposes will be more expensive for Slovenian taxpayers. I've never heard anything like it to encourage competition to be more expensive. Well, let's see how much more expensive car insurance could be if available, Mr. Zorman, just insurance through the Triglav Insurance Office, Generals or anything. But no, the contractors would compete in the market, the ones that would be cheaper, the ones that would have more patients. The same insurance company, competing on the market. That performer that's better, that's what I'm going to do, that's what I'm going to do, that's what I'm going to do, that's what I'm going to do. If I had the Insurance Company Triglav, for example, which is owned by the state, the price of EUR 2 000 per helmet car insurance, I would say, no, but with this insurance company I won't, I have this opportunity to say. In the case of the regulation we know today, the Slovenian citizen does not have this option. As a result, the health system for taxpayers would be cheaper when competition is introduced, when the market is opened. And that can tell you, you know who, say, German citizens, Dutch citizens and so on. And by the way, you're saying more people will pay out of their pocket. Yeah, what's extra insurance like a pocket payment today? 400 million euros – people are already paying for this. And that, I agree, needs to be settled. We must not be afraid of something normal in the 21st century, which is the social market economy, competitiveness, because monopolies are killing the system. Monopolies are what we have to fear for the future, because in the end it is people who have no initiative, either such or different choices. Further on policy and political decision. The key problem is that so far there has been no change in the entire health system, in its entirety, I believe that political will has not occurred. Dear SMC, there is nothing wrong and I completely understand you, including the Minister, that things do not change, given that there is no political will to change the Slovenian health system. Even today, there is no political will. I am self-critical, even in our governments or in the first government there was not this will, enough will. Even then, changes were needed, depending on the demographic picture. But you have taken responsibility for finding solutions, we will help you, I stress again, we have a draft, but it seems strange indeed that it is looking for solutions for the Slovenian health system New Slovenia, and on the other hand the government does not. That's the weirdest feeling I've ever felt. It is not a problem, we are prepared to take responsibility, but it is not only Nova Slovenija that this is a change factor in the health system without the support of the government. For this reason, it is primarily up to the President of the Government to take health reform as a project, as a project of his mandate. And as long as this mandate, if it is not a government president's project, then this health reform and these necessary changes – let's talk about health reform or health change – will not happen. Let me finish. I want more private initiatives, not just more concessionaires, more private initiatives, more competitiveness. Because people will have a choice where to treat them. This is a marriage for the reduction of waiting periods, the end of customerism, the end of corruption, for the promotion of public health, and in particular it is cheaper for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor. Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Jožef Horvat, then Maruša Škopac, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting to the audience! Allow me to think for a few minutes about the topic on the agenda, which is acute, which is very broad. In the 2015 Economic Challenges of Umarje, on the 46th page, for health and long-term care, the government's strategic paper, which lists some general guidelines for the envisaged systemic changes, and the draft legislative reform proposals are expected to be prepared in the first half of 2016. Recognizing that the demographic picture of Slovenia is strong at the end of the list compared to the EU countries, it is essential that the internal needs of citizens and citizens of Slovenia change as well. But not only does it change, it necessarily screams after changes and reactions to the needs of long-lived society. In the fact that we do not have enough jobs for young people to rely more firmly on solidarity, which means that the active ones are filling the pension register, and that the children can provide solidarity for the bereaved parents when they need it, especially economic assistance, and then we need to turn the pension and health system around so that we can live our lives with dignity. There was a lot of machinery, but it's not enough that we don't start off on a dead end. Health reform or changes in health care are so delicate that serious thought is needed and not looking back because it is history. Technology, science, technology are so much in the future that we need to follow this progress, bring it into our needs, first adapt it to the needs of patients and then to the health system, maintain it where appropriate, and to make radical changes where progress and impact will work better. We have recommendations before us regarding the proposal for a Health Action Act. The working material has sparked a heated debate in the public, a number of negative opinions, comments and many recommendations, mainly from the current practice and the reality. The biggest problem is, of course, the financial situation, which is focused on the swiftest possible repayment of old debts. However, in a system as large as health care, greater budgetary resources are certainly important. This funding arrangement for the health system, whether public, concessionary, private or otherwise regulated, all these health activities must be analysed at the level of the State and determined by them as a place, primary, secondary and so on. We have already heard something about the effectiveness of these in the debates. The Health Act is still a draft or working material, so I appeal for the precise determination of who is who we need in the future, with whom patients are satisfied, where the preventive effects of health care are best that expensive hospital treatment is as low as possible. At this point, I must say that I strongly support all the efforts of the Ministry of Health in seeking the best possible medical reconstruction, but I must also say that any reckless withdrawal of concessionaires who are part of the public health network is touching me personally. Not all are frauds, exploiters, and custodians, many of whom invest heavily in public health. In December 2015, I was present for the purchase of a million and a half expensive magnetic resonance apparatus. This is not the apparatus the mailman would bring in the box, but he had to be brought by the truck and picked up by elevator and put in a building where they had to tear down even the outer wall to put it. And if we got in a contract with the ZZZ, a higher number of paid services would be amortised in three years. What about the length of the concession? Nevertheless, once again, I trust the Ministry, which will reasonably include good solutions to the progress and development of Slovenian health care, and then I will be happy to support the Health Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u69	Ms Marusha Škopac has the floor to prepare Miha Kordiš and Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, President. I'll start with a coalition contract. The Coalition Treaty explicitly advocates the preservation of public health in Slovenia. The Ministry of Health also operates accordingly. However, the fact is that medical organisations support and are more inclined to change towards the privatisation of health care. And this is where there is one important difference. The Ministry of Health, as a regulator and as one who formulates and implements health policies, has the right and also the obligation to develop concepts that follow the general benefits. It is therefore legitimate and also right for the Ministry of Health to set up strategic legislative proposals and then coordinate them with other stakeholders. And today we are only talking about the work materials prepared by the Ministry of Health in accordance with the legislative procedure. That is why we believe that today's debate is premature, because we do not even know what the solutions will be to the proposed amendment of the law at its final stage. As we know, the Ministry of Public Health has received comments or opinions from 25 stakeholders. They said that they would undoubtedly take the comments into account, namely those consistent with the concept advocated by the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health has always stressed that concessionaires are an important part of the public health service, which contributes to the effectiveness of the health system. The purpose of the amendment of the Health Act is to improve the system which will allow for more transparent award of concessions in line with the public health service network and the needs of citizens. However, the fact is that the award of concessions must also be aligned with the Public-Private Partnership Act. Earlier, Godec asked what we would do or what would happen to concessions that were not granted in accordance with the law. What will happen after the revision of the concession contracts? The bill, what we have seen so far, allows all existing concessionaires a two-year transitional period to harmonise or achieve all the conditions for obtaining concessions to be defined in accordance with the new law. The logical consequence is that concessionaires who will not be able to achieve these conditions under the new law will simply not be able to be granted concessions. Because if we have the case of an 80-year-old concessionary doctor today, I assume that this person will not be able to meet the conditions for granting the concession. Colleague Godec also wondered what the criteria for extending concessions would be. I propose that we leave the Ministry of Health to send us to the National Assembly, following a regular legislative procedure, a bill; and I believe that the conditions for extending concessions will also be added to that bill. I think that, on the part of my colleague Godec, Jani Möderndorfer was also misunderstood. He said that concessions were awarded by the Municipality of Ljubljana and another small municipality specifically on the basis of public tenders; he did not mention in any words that he granted them for a certain period of fifteen years. All he said was that he awarded all concessions on the basis of public tenders. Then I would also like to touch the opening presentation by my colleague Bratušek, who was extremely critical of the work of the minister, that so far it was too little or almost nothing. Let me say that, at the time of the performance of the former Minister of Health, Mrs Skaza personally said that health reform cannot be implemented within one year; now she expects the Minister of Milojka Kolar Celarc to do so. He also spoke, his speech at this point referred to colleague Eriko Dekleva, that it was wrong to talk about excessive assault and that it was wrong to attack the opposition that it was not in the best interests of the patients. I would like to stress here that we all want a health system that is best for patients; but we are very different in what this best system should be and what the way to it is. I am convinced that both the coalition and the opposition agree that the health system should be the best for patients and only for patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u71	Ms Jelka Godec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you very much. My colleague mentioned me several times in front of me. I don't know if you're an attorney for the Ministry of Health, or are you their pierre, or are you a future minister, you're a secretary, what are you?Oh, my God! You answer instead of the government, instead of the ministry, which still has 30 minutes, which still hasn't answered, we get answers from your side. And now you are telling me what the Ministry had in mind; so you know more than we do. At the same time, you say we're talking about abstract matters. Yes, I agree, Article 11 states that those who have received concession contracts before the law is in force and even after the law has been in force shall comply with the provisions of this Act within 24 months of the application of this Act. And you said to let the concessionaire handle all this. The concessionaire asked for a concession, for example, it was awarded to him by the local community, the ministry and so on; and now let him regulate that he would say – but now I am. The audit should be carried out by the Ministry to write down what it must do, which concessionaires meet the conditions they do not meet. Those who do not meet the conditions have enough time and so many months to arrange it, otherwise there are no concessions. But now, if I'm a concessionaire, should I go through things?Oh, my God! The Ministry should review existing concessions, which is also written down to do so. And now I'm asking you if you represent the government, because then let's give it time to count it down. I want specific answers from the government. And please, President, if you can ask them to answer the questions that we have asked, how can we look at the implementation of health care activities, health care homes and concessionaires in accordance with Article 3 of the Health Act, where are the criteria for extending concessions, why a 15-year period, where are the grounds or the principles on which this is based? So everything I've asked you before. And what are those suggestions from the Medical Chamber that the Ministry has already taken for its own since October 2015 or that will take into account, given that we have heard today, how many meetings with the Medical Chamber have you already had. But since you've had so many meetings, I find it hard to believe that you've coordinated, because if you'd already reconciled this matter, it would probably be a little less. I am interested in precisely these answers, as well as why the Health Act, this proposal, does not comply with the European directives, does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I would ask you for these answers because after three and a half hours we are still listening to legal statements by the Modern Centre Party; I have not heard from you a single opinion or explanation of how and what.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u73	The word is Micah Kordish. Get ready for Mr. Branko Zorman and Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Let me start by saying what I said earlier about the speaker and what I said on the committee, but it was kind of past this high choir. This is simply the fact that the proportion of concessions in Slovenian health is increasing and waiting periods are also increasing. Please answer my question: If concessions really are the solution to the accessibility of our health care, for shorter waiting periods, why are we facing a trend that is going in the opposite direction? In 1997, 6% of public funds were earmarked for health care, which went to concessionaires. By this year or by last year, this figure had increased to 14%. If we look at specialization or dental care, these numbers become even more drastic. What I want to show here is that, as far as accessibility to health services is concerned, there is no concessions and there can be no solution, because if concessions were in fact any solution for waiting species, then this solution would already show up; and because of this we have only more problems. The only legitimate argument that touched on social justice by the supporters of the concessionary regime of our health was the argument of the concessionaires' contribution; they were to invest some EUR 246 million to date for their equipment, their premises and so on, and then to be in charge of these contributions. I think colleague Nada Brinovšek was talking about these numbers. These figures can also be interpreted in some other way, as the proponents put it, very concretely. These huge investment figures, these poor 250 million euros just show how lucrative our health sector is, how much we can earn in the health of our fellow citizens. Doctors do not enter privacy or concessions from any humanitarian movements, they go their own way not because they want to deal with administration and paper, which in principle public health institutions do for them if they work in these public health institutions. No, doctors go separately, in their own way, private simply because privacy earns more than they would in public health. Anything else is simply blinding and blurring facts and pouring sand into your eyes. Concession and privacy are used to enrich certain individuals at the expense of citizens. Therefore, some argument or criticism that was pointed at the beginning of this debate at this point, namely that I am not very good at separating private concessionaires, that I have confused everything and that I have no experience in life and so on; this argument does not hold true at any level. And I'll give you a purely personal experience. The irony was that right now, when we were talking about concessions in the National Assembly, I had a wisdom tooth, eight to the right. In the last two days, I've been solving personal problems with this. And I took this opportunity to call around a little bit, not to tell which concessionaire I called, but the situation was like this under the line – I would have waited 97 days for the concession, and they immediately offered me a self-paying option. If I went on a self-paying basis, I'd be on my way right now, but I'd give something over 200 euros. I mean, the concession is the right to rent, which is why our doctors are leaving the public health system in private water because they simply earn more. As a result, waiting types are extended in public health institutions, as such cases result in a drop in personnel. This makes it very difficult to say that we have concessionaires, but we have privates and so on. The concessionaire usually also has a self-payment ambulance, but that is clear. Next, I want to make it clear that in the United Left, we're not exactly overnight for the termination of concessions. Yes, we see the future, the long-term future of the Slovenian public health system in the abolition of concessions, but at this point we need to take care in the short term to end unjustified concessions. Our public health system, unfortunately, is so nourished at this time that many concessions, even in remote parts of Slovenia, where on the periphery, are even more justified. We can't just throw it in the same basket with a variety of profiteering concessions that grow like mushrooms in the rain in urban centres. If there is a need for citizens to need health care, this is a need that should, in principle, be covered by the public health network; but since this public health network does not have this option, it must be provided by the municipality, for example, if we are talking about primary health. Previously, in my defense of the United Left's position on this issue, I also mentioned the Black Coalition's word link. My colleague Vrtovec from NSI used to say that Minister Kolar Celarc's policy is to regulate his area as a bunker. In fact, we are not facing a bunker, but we are facing the siege of Slovenian public health. And the reference to the guidance of medical organizations, in their peaks, are nothing more than some medical privilege. Excuse me, right tribune, it's like referring Mira Cerar to the features of academic elites. In both cases, we are dealing with a narrowly privileged layer that only advocates its own interests, only that they are different subsystems. In academic Mandarins, we deal with education or higher education; in medical matters, we deal with the health system. This black coalition is also made up of motor organizations such as AmCham, the American Chamber of Commerce. There are commercial insurance companies in the back and so on. Earlier, my fellow Vrtovec is in its implementation, I will say a little differently than he threatened to bring health reform to the table, which will be in line with all stakeholders. But these stakeholders are apologists of their own interests and some commercial and capital interests, not to say just international capital; and nothing else. As a result, when we talk about public interest in public health, they are completely irrelevant and we need not do much more than the opposite of what they want. How good is competition in health care and how it should be effective, look, these are pumpkins. Whoever claims this can turn to the analysis they received at the Ministry of Health, and they will be told there very quickly that they have the biggest problems with their health systems in the Baltic State, the Netherlands and so on, which have justified their health insurance on the larger competing, cobajag competing insurance companies. And also in Slovenia, we actually pay 420 million euro commercial insurance companies, but be careful that 20% of these assets remain for profits, operating costs, marketing and so on in the same commercial insurance companies. One assessment here is that it is hiding in this private interest of EUR 50 million which could service the Slovenian public health system. In particular, however, the U.S., which had the highest cost, had the lowest access to such a health system. Such cobajagi of competitiveness are citizens [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u75	Mr Branko Zorman has the floor. Prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u76	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, once again welcome! First of all, I have to respond to certain statements made by my colleague Vrtovec from NSI earlier, which I can gently say is somewhat idealising this situation when comparing the foreign and Slovenian health system. In doing so, it often offers the Dutch system as a very successful system, which is certainly on certain criteria; at the same time, of course, it will not say that this system is extremely expensive. And it is extremely expensive for insured people, i.e. for citizens; and it is significantly more expensive for citizens than the Slovenian system. At the same time, keep quiet that every time a Dutch citizen goes to a doctor, he pays a lot of participation for that visit. In the case of some emergency medical services, this participation is very large, including 200 euros. And the question is: we who advocate public health and, on the other hand, NSIs and SDS, who advocate in some way privatisation or more from insurance companies – what we now want to Slovenian citizens. I think that, as it is, the Slovenian citizen is significantly better. It is true, however, that the system also needs certain supplements. And also the law, which today is partially, marginally flowing, is the result of regulating these changes that are necessary. A colleague from the Slovenian Democratic Party said that the Government is not responding, I do not want to answer on behalf of the Government, but the Government has already explained to me twice everything I need to know on this subject – for the first time on the Health Committee and today at the beginning of the meeting. Apparently, this isn't enough for a colleague. We've had enough. Thank you, Government. Now for today's session. I will repeat what I have already said on the Health Committee, that we are witnessing a very unusual process. The proposer proposes some recommendations concerning a law that is not officially available. The Ministry has put forward a draft draft, some working material for all stakeholders to comment and comment and their opinions. On this basis, the Ministry will only prepare a copy or an official proposal for this law, which we will only be able to talk about. Today and for the last time in a board meeting, talking about the content and solutions that this law will bring is completely irrelevant. I therefore suggest that the proposers wait for an official final proposal and then submit their constructive proposals and criticisms. The fact that the purpose of this meeting, as has been used many times, is merely to criticise a coming law, but to criticise the government and the Ministry of Health in general, was clear from the applicant’s opening statement when she spoke about everything else, rather than concessions or the Health Act. And I have to repeat what has already been repeated several times today, every time in health care there is talk about some changes in health care, the housing organizations go crazy. Among them, of course, is the most Medical Chamber of Slovenia. Why? Because it is actually interfering with their acquired status benefits over time, even through legislation, even through this State Assembly in the past. But it can still be legitimate. However, it is not legitimate and it is extremely dangerous to make a poor patient a vulnerable person and to say that patients are at risk, which will suddenly be left without medical care. It's demagogy. Whether you want it or not, it's pure demagogy because it's not true. I will repeat this here once again, including this draft law, and I will not talk about the content of this law, because we do not yet have an official proposal, but the draft does not provide for the termination of concessions in any article. Not in a single article. What you want to show and certain medical organizations. Let's see how the concessions have been distributed so far. Since the opening of the possibility of granting these concessions over a certain period, especially around 2006, these concessions have been very wildly distributed. Let me remind you, from 2004 to 2008, you were in power, this is what the government of Janez Janša, in which representatives of New Slovenia also sat. And what happened then? What my colleague said today. Your Minister Bručan then awarded 50 concessions overnight. No one can convince me that these 50 concessions were awarded, for the first time, transparent because they were not, because then these concessions were passed over and handed down by the Minister for his opinion, perhaps friendlyly, I will not say. Clearly, this is some sort of anomaly that needs to be regulated. Concessions were sometimes awarded even by the invitation to tender, which was a good practice in some congregations. However, these congregations are more exceptional. Most of them were handed out by the mayor, and again I can say, maybe friendly, at the primary level, for example, for family doctors. On a secondary level, this is called specialized activities, handed down by the minister, again without a call. Moreover, these concessions were sometimes granted for an indefinite period, which is at odds with the existing Public-Private Partnership Act, which clearly requires concessions to be awarded by public tender and for a certain period of time. Concessions are not the rights of someone who gets it, but a concession is issued by a concession to someone who will complement a network or provide a service that public health institutions cannot. When I mentioned that 50 concessions were granted only overnight in your mandate; it was obviously a slightly misunderstood concept of public-private. And this was actually the first attempt at privatisation, in a way, of Slovenian health care. And those appetites after the privatisation were even so great that even then your president replaced this minister because he went too far. Let's rediscover what the concessionaire is. The concessionaire is a private person acting in the legal form of espionage or part of a public health network. I stress – part of the public health network. And he's in the same position as a public health institution; read, either a primary health home, or some hospital on a secondary level. And he also gets the same payment for the same things. And if the concessionaire who completes this network is to ensure that health services are territorially distributed wherever necessary, for example because of the personnel, geographical, spatial or any reason for not being able to provide this service, the concession shall be awarded and the concession granted to the concessionaire for the performance of this public service. And because this concessionaire is financed if he is a pure concessionaire and besides this concessional activity does not yet perform self-payment, which is often mixed and placed in the same basket, it is not. The concessionaire, for example, a family doctor concessionaire, is likely to perform only concessional activities; he does not have a self-paying activity because the family doctor is difficult to offer, or in primary health care in family medicine, there are no waiting types and there is no need for that. The concessionaires on a secondary level, those who offer specialist services and those who can be pure concessionaires or, in addition to this concession fee outside the working time when they work for the ZZZS, in quotations of course, also offer self-paying services. And also concessionaires have waiting types because they are part of the public system. However, if they offer a service in the afternoon or evening for which the waiting period, as has already been mentioned today, is self-paid, and this is 100% paid by the patient himself; then it is something else. And we can't compare that to a public health network. Let's move on, because concessionaires are part of the public system, they must be subject to the same rules as everyone else, I repeat, because they are financed by public funds. And who, if not the Government, or in this case the Ministry of Health, is responsible for regulating this area. I repeat, we know that concessions have also been distributed in an insufficient way to avoid talking about transparency. That is why the Ministry of Health has prepared this draft, which is now being worded marginally, because we cannot talk about the final content because we do not have this proposal. At the same time, you are exposing non-cooperation with health organisations. The Ministry has already stated on several occasions that cooperation with the Medical Chamber is ongoing, on a monthly basis, documented and recorded. Plus, where the Minister and President of the Medical Chamber also meet. In addition, members shall meet on behalf of the Medical Chamber, which shall consist of individual working groups, who shall prepare specific legislative proposals or deal with a health issue. These arguments or arguments of the Medical Chamber are absolutely not true. However, if a person sees cooperation as a success only when he achieves 100% of his or her interests and achieves his or her goals, then I believe that they are dissatisfied in this mandate; because ministers are not interested in individual interests, but rather in the interests of all citizens. What is generally stated in the new draft law is now that concessions will be awarded exclusively on the basis of public tenders, both at the primary level, where the municipalities for family doctors are referred to as activities carried out in the healthcare home, are awarded concessions; or they are awarded by the Ministry of Specialist Activities, which are otherwise carried out by the citizens they know in the hospital. That's the first thing. And the other thing is that these concessions will be awarded for a certain period of time. Again, you question whether fifteen years is enough or not enough, or whether someone will buy some expensive equipment, what will be the guarantee after fifteen years. Stop it, please. The one who goes into private business and has a d.o.o. is basically a private person; when he becomes a concessionaire, he becomes part of a public network. But this does not mean that he is now, according to his own words, on the prowl for the rest of his life, if he is doing his services well, I have no doubt, probably that this concessionaire would not do his work for life in some way then. However, there must be clear conditions, criteria must be clear and it must be clear that the supervision must be carried out by the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. Hand to heart, we know that the ZZ is not or does not carry out sufficient controls, but this is already a debate for another time. And what you're saying is, 15 years is enough. Who's gonna guarantee what's gonna happen after 15 years? But they have invested in this activity. Anyone who goes into entrepreneurship goes into it with his own resources and with all the risk that goes. Here it is significantly easier, for the period of the concession contract, this concessionaire is calm, completely calm because he has a guaranteed business, if possible a little caricature. And one thing, the concessionaire is paid exactly the same as paid, for example, by a public health institution. A family doctor who has a concession gets the same things paid as a paid health care home. And in this payment, in addition to payment for health personnel and health services, there is also payment for the part of depreciation. Through this payment, each concessionaire is able to return his investment in the age to be prescribed – whether it will be fifteen, ten, twenty or more. And once again, why will it be necessary, or why, to change this law? Would you, I ask you, go as a patient with some serious medical condition to an 80-year-old concessionaire who, unfortunately, is no longer able to do his job because of health issues and even has a mentor who can do his job at all, but still has a concession because it is possible under current legislation. And that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u77	The replica has Mr. Jernej Rotovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u78	Dear President, I was now misunderstood, earlier when Mr Zorman spoke about the privatisation of the healthcare system, about the Netherlands and so on. However, I will immediately answer this question, which he addressed to the opposition or to the proposers of this meeting. An individual should decide to trust such a person; an individual, a patient. He's paying for the health system. Regarding privatisation, this is the goal of New Slovenia. No, you're actually hunting witches with this. I don't care who owns it, who controls it, what's important is that the system works, that's essential. And NSI does not advocate any privatisation, as you claim, of the health system; but, Mr Zorman, colleagues and colleagues, a human-worthy system, a human-worthy health system. Such a system that poor little Rene will be treated in Slovenia, that we do not organize charity events for his treatment, we will not organise the collection of stoppers, we will not raise funds through the media; such a system advocates Nova Slovenija. And if this is the Dutch system – okay; if this is the German system – fine. Let us be aware, however, that today the citizens would also be willing to give some euro more to get to the infirmary in time so that they would not wait one year to check their spine for an orthodontic examination for two years. Well, on the one hand, we have a hall that advocates status quo, which advocates collecting stoppers for the treatment of our children to continue; and a hall to which I count myself, which does not support this and wants to see fundamental changes in the Slovenian health system. But we cannot generalize and speak – privatisation, not privatisation. Let's go look for solutions. And this debate today in the National Assembly was a good debate. It is a shame to see certain Members drop out at the beginning of this debate, but I would like to hear another former Minister, Mr Gantard, because all of this benefits us to a better system. And when we learn to talk, we will take one big step forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u79	Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u80	Mr. Zorman has made quite some serious accusations. Otherwise, for a long time, we have found that the Modern Centre Party is sick for the period 2004-2008, and all parallels are drawn by this period, as if there had been no Slovenian government, and then there was no one. Mr Zorman, if you have made serious accusations such as the fact that concessions have been awarded over invitations, including doubts about friendships, even for an indefinite period of time, past the law – I suggest you press charges on the basis of everything you know. Therefore, if you know that during a period of time concessions have been granted outside the law, that you are also talking about friendly relations, without public tendering concessions, I ask you to press charges. Because on average in the National Assembly, talking about certain allegations is irresponsible by the Member. And to mention only one minister and how this minister had to go because he privatized public health; this is unacceptable. Mr Zorman, once again, I would like you to state publicly what concessions have been granted beyond the law, on the basis of friendships, for an indefinite period of time, without public statements. If you know this, you are obliged to report this to certain authorities. And you don't have to do anything stupid right now, like you don't hear anything, you can't see me, because I'm saying these are serious accusations. But you were only talking about one period, and you were bragging at the same time that your government in a year and a half did not grant one concession because there was no need. But we do know that some non-occupationalists, but certain environments urgently need certain doctors that public health cannot afford, and they want concessions; but no. You don't even want to do this under the current legislation. So that is a certain time of concession, with a call for tender, which I agree, if this is what it says in the law, it must be. And once again, I invite you to tell me who got the concession from the then minister in the manner you mentioned. No invitation to tender, overnight and on friendly terms. This is one thing when you say that the then government wanted to privatize health care; concession is not privatisation, because you said so yourself. Concession is within the framework of public health. Where's the privatisation now? You yourself said that we should not mix apples and pears or say concession is a private matter; and that the concessionaire and the healthcare home are in the same position. Nothing! The concessionaire himself invests in fixed assets. In a public health facility, all the equipment is financed by the state if you want. The local community invests, the state makes it out of the budget. The private investor himself invests, but it's true, it's the same as in private schools. Private schools themselves have to provide fixed funds, material resources and the programme is financed from the country's budget. It's the same in health care. And now you're saying they're all the same. No, I've said that before. When we entered the European Union, we set out with the Law on Public-Private Partnership how concession is granted, because that is what the European Union has asked us to do. We have set a time limit for concessionaires to work for which programme. This has not yet been established for health care homes. And they're not in the same position. With this new amendment to the law, if it stays the way it is, we're going to put concessionaires in even more unequal situations than a health care home, because we're going to limit it to 15 years, because that's what it says in the novel. I'm speaking according to the draft. And that's exactly what you said, what I said earlier as a position or as a proponent – 15 years when the equipment is amortized. Hello, what about in the middle?Oh, my God! But who's going to put those who work there into the workforce, who's going to renovate the equipment, and so on? That's not what the state's gonna do. The concessionaire's doing it himself. And I'm wondering, where is this secure environment provided by the state for these 15 years? The country must provide a secure environment to the private, and I will also tell economic companies; but today we have heard from SMC that you do not intend to provide this either in the field of health or elsewhere. You do not intend to provide a safe environment for the economy to operate because you do not care. After 15 years, when the doctor puts in the frame, into the equipment; then we'll see what happens, we won't be here anymore. You, as a government, as a coalition, must provide a safe environment for the functioning of all institutions, all of them. You need to provide a secure environment for the economy, the public service, health care, education, to develop all these segments of our society. And you say who's going to guarantee it. The government and the state with the measures. Don't be silly, you don't care if Pekko goes bankrupt, because you won't provide a safe environment. Who's telling the economy that he'll be able to do something in another year? That's what your colleague at SMC said. Then you say there's no problem in family doctors. So after the blue book there would be 1,500 patients per family doctor, now we have 2,200; so we need 300 new family doctors. You're talking about the public network of family doctors again, and we've heard this before. I don't know how many times this network is fixed and everything's okay. We need 300 new ones. I've talked about a safe environment, and these 15 years seem more and more meaningful, I don't believe it, I find it hard to believe anything will happen. But I said, okay, let's do it, because under the Law on Public-Private Partnership it says concessions are granted for a certain period of time. Okay. But all 15 years. What is this criterion for 15 years? Now we've heard – depreciation. But then there are no more criteria, including this age limit 85 or how many years Mr Zorman has spoken, I do not see anything written in this law to do. It has to be preserved, of course, public health, definitely. I don't think there's anyone in the National Assembly today who wouldn't think of it that way. But nothing or government does anything to make things better in public health, in health care, in hospitals that are unoccupied. Nothing. The secretary just says she needs more money, but if the money's already flying out the window. They are already telling us that we need to make a rationalisation of the situation or of the finances. No, the government has decided to put the concessionaires down. Once again, what Mr Zorman said about these friendly ties, the award of concessions without invitations, let him say who he is, and let him report it to certain institutions that will find out. If this was one concession, which was inherited or how it was a matter years ago, and now because one case happened, we will have a nice commitment on the part of all concessionaires; instead of reporting those who broke the law to certain institutions and finding that out. Mr Zorman speaks flatly across the board, but of course he is limited to one period 2004-2008, which is the only period known in the Modern Centre Party. In health care, which I am on board, only this period revolves around and around. Before, there was no government, and later no, but now it's great, everything is fine, everything is fine and fine; although everything is falling apart, after the stitches, the demands for the resignation of the minister from all sides, and everything is still in the best order. Once again, I call on the government to answer questions about how concessionaires and public institutions are in the same position as they are in the current law, how they will then be in the same position as they provide the safe environment to concessionaires for that period of time as we have heard on the committee for the last time, that could be 10, 15 or 20 years. I would ask for these answers from the government, because we have some time left, and that I will not repeat again and again, these doubts will not appear; I would ask for an answer. You've had 10 meetings with the Medical Chamber or I don't know how many meetings, you've had meetings with other expert groups, I think you probably already have a draft to give us the answers today. I'm asking the government to finally say something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u81	Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! This morning we discussed the proposed Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities, and we all unitedly agreed that it should be changed because the law was obsolete because it was from 1984. And on the other hand, we have health care, which operates under the laws of the 1990s. You can believe that health has changed significantly in all these years and has taken place more than in the first field. And because they did not follow the changes in legislation, the problems in the public health system are very large. In the meantime, the solutions that appeared to be complementary insurance, including the work of concessionaires, were to amortise in some way what could be done; and to correct and correct what was necessary in the public health system. I believe that when concessionary activity was introduced, no one thought that it was a privatisation of health care. And if today it's blasphemous to think about the privatization of health care, at least by the majority, and we all advocate public health, years ago it was so much more. And sometimes it is interesting to listen to how we take concessions in certain areas as protection of public interest; of course, in health care it is quite the opposite; this is the privatisation of one sector that should not be reached. They are, as has already been said, part of the public health system. Why were concessionaires involved and concessions granted? I can argue for myself, I believe that many colleagues have acted and acted in the same way, although there have probably been some questionable moves in all the years; but the primary aim in certain areas was to increase access to certain health services and to allocate additional public funds for this purpose, and that is why and in cases where public health institutions have not been able to do so. And there the concessions were granted that an additional programme was implemented. But it is a naive force, I think we have a problem that, when we are elected, we cannot automatically know all the areas, but now that the concessionaires are responsible for the waiting times we have in Slovenia, of course, this is a big nonsense. First of all, deciding for a concession is a bold act, given that you're not paid for a job you don't do, you're not paid for a vacation, you're not paid for a hospital, you're not paid for an education; but you have a simple contract to do. And when you do, you'll get paid exactly the same way you get paid public health. I know quite a few fellow concessionaires, and I must say that most of them have not decided on this activity because they would only want to make extra money, but because they have accumulated problems in the public health system that they have limited in their work because they have become ineffective. You can believe that, first of all, the concessionaire cannot allow inefficiency. The concessionaire cannot buy equipment needlessly and have it unused in his outpatient room, cannot overpay equipment or medicines. And here's the reserve that the concessionaire has compared to the public institutions, which we know are often overpaid either with equipment or with medicine, so that we don't say that some are even after two months and are absent for many years. The concessionaire can't do that. So it's a public health activity. And the only problem is whether the work of the concessionaire controls it or not, because the concessionaire is dependent on it. It is said that it must execute a programme paid at a predetermined price which is the same as everywhere. The Health Insurance Office has the possibility of supervision, the Ministry has the possibility of supervision. There's no reason for any manipulation in this area. Therefore, making them aware that they are working in a different interest is at least incorrect and reflects to a significant extent also the ignorance of this area of concessionary activity. A significant number of problems that need to be addressed are in the field of public institutions. We've been talking about this, we're waiting for it, and I believe we're going to come to this, so it was kind of a surprising decision for me to go first to regulate the concession business, and then it goes on with the rest. And that in a way that we know that changes are necessary and that we cannot bring back health care 30 years ago. Today, borders are open, we face competition across our borders and concessionaires need to be addressed in the context of all changes in the public health system that we all advocate. We hope that solidarity will continue to be equally accessible to all. In this I can only agree with my colleague Kordiš that the concession must be abolished. They really need to be abolished, not for that reason, as he thought, but because most of them are comparable countries or those for which we imitate, do not know and regulate this area to a significant extent. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u83	Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall again! I already told the Health Committee that it seems to me that only the Ministry of Health needs a doctor, but it doesn't matter whether it's a concessionaire or a doctor from public service. Why do I think that? Today has already been mentioned several times, and I will mention it again, but I think it could be done twice, three times; the ministry will do the same again. In the case of the emergency medical regulation, we met that the National Assembly had adopted recommendations that the Health Committee should be informed in the Official Journal before this Regulation was published. Of course, it didn't happen, the ministry sent a rulebook to the Official Gazette, only a few days later sent us a rule on our bench. And I must say that I also expected the Chairman of the Health Committee to react in this regard; nothing at all. The Minister is in the media, we are all well aware of how much he likes to praise and explain how our health system is good and what has already been done in her year and a half. And if we look at it, we're in the National Assembly getting a rule on emergency medical care, two amendments to the laws and the Law on Investment in Public Institutions, which, in our opinion, is also discriminatory, which we have also pointed out at the meeting itself. That we have all been expecting reform or, I will say, a change in the health system is clear to us all; but it is also clear to us that we expected it to be in vain. Of course, we expected the Minister to begin by setting up a public network, which today is quite a talk, for the Ministry to set standards and regulations, for the preparation of a programme of effective reduction of waiting lines, a change in the management of public institutions, a financially sustainable system and for legislation on long-term care. We're waiting for all this for nothing, and we're still waiting. At least I hope that this analysis, which the Ministry has made available to some foreign experts and has paid EUR 360 000 for it, has not shown that the most pressing topic in the field of health is the concession and that it is therefore necessary to accede immediately to the amendment of the Health Act. Here I would like to reiterate, although I have already stressed in my position that the opinion of the profession is that this chapter of concessions in the Health Act is well regulated. The profession says that legislation should only be implemented and, of course, respected. However, the Ministry is of the opinion that if there is a breach, it is necessary to amend the legislation immediately without any supervision being carried out. And as I mentioned earlier this famous Analysis of the Health System in Slovenia, I must say that you do not understand The analysis of the health system was commissioned by the Ministry in June 2015. This Decision shall enter into The resolution on the National Plan was presented for the first time in June 2015, in a public debate until August 2015; and in December it was delivered to us on our parliamentary bench. [[..]] However, the analysis states: based on the results of the Health System Analysis, the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 was adopted. If anyone in this room understands this, please, if we can meet after the closing session to explain to me how such a situation could have occurred. I'm gonna stay here for a while. I would be very interested to know what information the Ministry has sent to these foreign experts to assess our health system, on the basis of which this analysis of Slovenian health was prepared. It sounds like, or, I'll say it in quotes, it's said that this committee has been misdirected. I think that these data should be checked and found out who participated in this working group, which was preparing and sending these data abroad. I must say that I do not have confidence in the Ministry, and I fear that it is difficult for us to trust them even if we look at the case found by the Court of Auditors last November, when the Ministry of Health's professional service in the preparation of a simple form for the management of medical equipment was not able to simplify the content of this form; therefore, they preferred to stop collecting this information on medical equipment. Like I said, it's not my idea, it's in the record of the Court of Auditors. If such minorities do not allow the Ministry’s professional co-workers to unify themselves, the question is what is more serious information. It would also be interesting to know who was appointed to this working group for the preparation of the Health Act and why, according to Article 71 of the Medical Services Act, the Medical Chamber was not their representative. Moreover, the Chamber argues that the amendment to the Health Act has not been made at all. And as the coalition came to mind today, I will read you a letter from the Medical Chamber of 7. Ten. 2015 requiring the withdrawal of the draft Health Act from the public debate. They say: "The Health Chamber of Slovenia gives the strongest protest to the proposal for the Health Act which the Ministry of Health has submitted on 29 September 2015; and demands that the Minister withdraw the proposal from the public debate." The Chamber concludes this letter and says: "The Chamber also criticises the procedure for the adoption of the law, since the Ministry expressly opposed article 71 of the Medical Service Act to the Chamber did not allow any cooperation in the drafting of the text of the proposal; in fact, the Chamber was not aware of the fact that the Ministry was preparing the amendment of the law." This is a letter dated 7 October from the Ministry of Health. In this regard, I would like to read further what the Government or its opinion on the proposal for our recommendations regarding the implementation of this Article 71 of the Medical Service Act is thinking. The government says that it is necessary to take into account that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is a regulatory body that formulates and implements health policies and has the right and also the obligation to develop labour materials, taking into account the general benefits and also to pursue the political objectives pursued. It is therefore necessary and legitimate for the preparation of strategic documents to form basic concepts within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and then to be forwarded to the other stakeholders. Well, if this is the interpretation of the Government, then I ask the Ministry why did you also appoint a representative of the Department of Health Insurance in the decision on the preparation of the new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance for this work committee, and I think that the representative of the National Institute is also a representative? And let the same vats stand all over the place. On 10 October, on the oral question of my colleague Jelka, the Minister said on this proposal for amendments to the Health Act that it was a key intention to amend this law in order to eliminate the anomaly. She listed them as follows: "The uncontrolled sale of concessions must be arranged, because in the field, for example, when a concessionaire goes to a retirement, the concession is informally transferred without the consent of someone else and the rent is charged for this." In this regard, I was asked on the Committee whether the Ministry might have any information, as far as, for example, the sale of these concessions over the last five years, that the Ministry could claim that this was the reason for the amendment of this legislation. According to the Minister for Law Amendment, the Ministry also decided from this point of view that concessions should be awarded in a public tender, in order to complement the public health service network. I think that's the funniest thing I've ever seen. Why? We have heard many times today, but we still do not have a public health service network prepared. I don't know if you're making a little joke about us, or are you trying to convince us like Comrade Zorman that we have a public network at the primary level for some family doctors and so on. The network's still gone! The Ministry also argues that this will reduce waiting types when it so severely intervenes in concessions. And I have to say, I don't understand that either. I see that the distinguished ladies of the Ministry are looking at each other, but this is what we have here from the meeting. I wonder very much, on what basis did the Ministry or perhaps the Minister herself come to that conclusion? The profession, I'll say again, has a different opinion here; otherwise, I will say that we are somehow used to the Ministry overlooking the profession or rather disregarding it at all. Nevertheless, I will tell you what the expert opinion on the amendment of this Health Action Act is. According to the section, the proposal destroys concessions as part of a public health network. No more doctors will want to apply for concessions because of the high financial contribution, which we have already heard today. And before an individual can apply for a concession, we must, we are all aware, meet a number of conditions, provide adequate facilities, equipment and even personnel. From the data of the Slovenian Association of Doctors and Dentists, for example, the dentist invests an average of €63 000 with a concession, a family doctor of €30 000, and a specialist doctor of €366,000 before applying for a concession. 366,000 euros before applying for concession! And let me summarize the following numbers. Together, all the active concessionaires have invested in this health system, which is said to be in fixed assets and for work, more than EUR 246 million over the entire period. And for these funds, a lot of people don't want me to tell most of these concessionaires, they're in charge. And I stress that these funds are invested in public health. Therefore, on the basis of the fact that these concessions are now so broken down, it could be said that, by means of this move, the amendment of the Health Act of the State or the Ministry would deny further investment in fixed assets by concessionaires. However, I think that this investment is even more welcome, at least in view of the resources available to the Ministry at its disposal in the budget; and given that healthcare already has very outdated medical equipment. I am interested – of course, if the Ministry's representatives come forward at the end – does the Ministry believe that concessionaires will be willing to invest so much in their premises and equipment in the short term? I heard from the coalition today that yes. I wonder which one of you would be such a hero to be in charge of EUR 366,000 for ten or fifteen years. Half of them couldn't even return at that time. We must not forget that this law touches about a thousand 200 institutions with concessions that employ about a thousand 500 doctors. And most of these concessionaires have the status of an independent entrepreneur or d. o.o. and are paid from a positive profit tax operation. Concessionists aren't in red numbers like many of our public institutions, and they don't have losses. The proposal also brings negative budgetary effects from a financial point of view. In this regard, I wonder whether the Ministry has prepared any records or calculations of the negative financial implications? That is, in the event that this law is passed, or you think that this is the task of the Ministry of Finance, you have left it unsettled. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this change of law will certainly bring an end to competition in Slovenian health. We must not forget that patients will be the most affected. We must not forget that, by amending this legislation, this law is largely open to the search for health services abroad. If the patient does not come in line in our public health care or in concessionaries – we know how long the waiting lines are – he will go to a doctor, go to a private person and pay for it from his own pocket; but if he is a little more resourceful, he will go to his doctor and get a guide and go to treatment abroad. In this case, the account will settle itself; then it will be covered by the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia at 80%, but the difference of 20% is the insurance company Mutual or where it is insured. I'll give you the case. The lady did not come to us, not even to join the waiting line for surgery for cramped veins, but she went to Dobrno on 8 December to be examined by a doctor from Italy on 8 January, and within one month, the lady was operated successfully. She settled the bill, 80% will be returned to her by the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and 20% by the Mutual. And this, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, will be after the new competition we will face. The money will run abroad, as I said, instead of bringing the services closer to the patient and ensuring that theirs and our money remain at home. In this regard, I also asked the Minister whether there was any analysis of the reduction of waiting periods and the increased departure of patients for treatment abroad. You have probably also considered the proposal for these amendments at the Ministry to amend the existing backward contracts. At least now I hope you know what that means. I have a certain and indeterminate time in mind. And if you end up giving any answer, I wonder once again whether, in the opinion of the Ministry of Citizens or for the patient, this amendment to the Health Activity Act means deterioration or improvement? How many comments has the Ministry received and to what extent have these comments been taken into account? Will they just be recorded, as we know it happened in the rules of procedure. I would also point out that Article 3 of the Health Activity Act provides that public health activities as a public service are managed under the same conditions by public health establishments and other legal and natural persons on the basis of a concession. And this amendment of yours does not allow this. I'm curious here, what's the Ministry's thinking? Here I would also like to warn my colleagues from the coalition that as a result of the enforcement of this law, it will undoubtedly lead to the departure, for the first time, of doctors abroad. Our doctors abroad are highly valued, have an opportunity to advance, work on better equipment, and are better paid. And in this regard, I wonder if the ministry has any information on this or how you think about it. Let me say that I have also asked the Minister of Health all these questions on the parental committee and that none of these questions have been answered. So don't mind me, I'll end up like I started. I think the Ministry of Health just needs a doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! We now have almost five hours of debate on this item of the agenda, and despite the calls made by anyone representing the ministry representing the government at this point of the agenda, it did not seem worth standing up and commenting, to say any answer to the questions raised by my colleagues and other Members. Many words, comments, such and other comments were made, but the ministry, although it must be involved in the work of the National Assembly, did not participate in this item of the agenda but only in physical presence. There was absolutely no answer to any of the questions raised in the debate. Mr President, I propose that, within the framework of the coalition, the President of the National Assembly should also seriously call on the representatives of the Government, Mr Cerar, to ensure the active participation of government representatives in such and all other items of the agenda. Only rarely are the points where ministries and representatives of ministries are actively involved. They come in, sit for five hours and then use those final minutes to say something. This is not the point of the debate on the agenda; it is not the point. We are talking about substantive matters and we cannot help ourselves with such an approach, we can erase something. Secondly, I also think that there is a kind of depressed debate between some coalition Members who say that there is no law yet. The law is and the law is in public debate, published on the Ministry's website and held forums on this law. Whoever wanted to, could have commented on this, looked at it, read it, made suggestions. And this content of the law has also been discussed, as we can see, in a number of interviews with the professional public, that is to say with the chamber and perhaps with someone else. We are talking today about the solution proposal proposed by the Ministry; and I think the topic for discussion is very relevant. If the discussions on the Government's proposals do not suit anyone, this is another problem, but I think it is very responsible, given that health is one of the key themes; the topics most interested people are to speak publicly and also speak in the National Assembly, because in the end the National Assembly will have to adopt a law in such or otherwise. I think that these approaches are when the opposition wants to launch some of these in the National Assembly to respond so arrogantly in the coalition. I think it's depressed, and I think it's wrong. The first thing, the first five debaters or even more, deals only with the obvious what happened in the period 2004-2008. If anything was wrong in that period, we had already had the anti-corruption commission, we had a work inspection, we had a health inspection, we had a chamber, we had a ministry, we had investigative bodies and so on. And all those who would notice in this area, what irregularities, should carry out certain activities. Such indications, which are directed at one of the ministers, should be addressed to the right authorities. If you can't do it in public, write an anonymous note. It's just the simplest answer to that. I am interested, however, in the fact that this political part, which represents the solutions that should defend the solutions to this law, is silent, what is the fundamental problem in this area of health? I can see that you've narrowed it down extremely, that you've gone to those 5 or 10, 15% of the health system and not the system. From these debates I have seen, it is said that this is one area which is deluded by some crime, with some illegal activities, with some privatisation greed, and I don't know what else. The country, the Ministry, has a key role to play in this country as regards system control. And if things don't work anywhere, then the control mechanism needs to be activated and it needs to be determined whether things are going legally or illegally. And if illegal conduct is found, appropriate action must be taken, it is said to take the licence, to take the concession and so on. That's how things are regulated in some normal system. It is not possible, nor is it ethical, but it is not moral for a problem that may be common in some individual to be generalized and to conclude that there is absolutely no basis for the actual situation. Colleagues, in particular colleagues, pointed out that this area of public health, which is carried out in the form of concessions, is linked to significant investment funds. It is said that before anyone can even perform a concessional activity, one way or another, at one level or another, it must provide suitable space. I ask, Ministry representatives, how many years would it take for this private initiative in the field of public health investment to provide resources from the state budget and to establish such a level comparable to that of concessionaires? We haven't been able to put together one important public institution for a decade. If so — a lot of problems, legionella and other matters ahead — we are not talking about the thousands of other things that are happening in this area. I don't understand why we find a problem where the country costs absolutely nothing. The service is paid as another service; as for investments, it is made with other resources, not with budgetary resources. What's the problem? If there was only public health, health services would probably be at a lower level, because this country is unable to provide sufficient funding, not even for investments in the key institutions it needs. We've been building pediatrics for years. I don't know how many years. I don't know how many years. We haven't been able to get any money in time, and so on. All these investments were accompanied by unknown problems in terms of control, quality of service, processing, correct procedures and so on, a bunch of problems. And all these problems involve a portfolio that should stimulate and open up the matter in order to spend as little public money as possible on what needs to be done in the context of health care. I think the efficiency of spending public funds, if you don't have to invest, you get the same service for the same money with the concessionaire, is significantly greater. Significantly higher, for a country substantially cheaper, there is no need to be indebted, no need to deal with how public debt is growing. All of this, if we wanted to invest in this health care work covered by concessionaires, would be burdened by additional debts and public debt. That's undeniable. And it would be made based on experience, given the problems that we also know everywhere, significantly less effective; and probably less quality. I don't understand some people who see here, especially with concessionaires, money. Okay, they work for money. You work for money, I work for money, we all work for money. Even those ultralevs who can't handle the word in private work for money, for the same as you. Philosophizing that those who work for money and account for a service at a further known rate, that I do not know what are, is something very wrong; while you can have complete control over their financial operations, complete control, whenever, foretold, unannounced, you can afford to control this matter. Recently, we had a problem with concessions in forestry, where the same problem is. Those who could oversee it were the state, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition through its organs, not controlling it, but saying that those concessionaires did not know what they were doing. Surveillance hasn't been good for 20 years. You know of any case that anything has happened, how many medical cases do you know about concessions, that something serious has happened. I'm asking! How many licences, how many concessions the Ministry has withdrawn due to violations of the implementation of the concession contract at the primary, secondary or other level. That's the problem. And instead of now dealing with the system, as both of my colleagues have warned, it is said that we would set up a network to set up a system to make some distinctions, we are dealing with a single detail that may work best in terms of patient satisfaction. You come when you're ordered, plus-minus a few minutes, you're accepted and the service is done as intended. The schedules count the quality of the service, because otherwise no one goes to the concessionaire; that is to say, if not, he will not show that he will get paid either. If we look at these things differently, then we see that this is our ministry, the real political part of the health system deals with such diversions into the health system and with the staffing. We don't have a health insurance director with a full mandate. That's the one who pays for these services. And there's nothing to suggest that we could get it in due course, because it's obviously a political problem. That there would be no misunderstandings, we didn't support it either, but the problem is that nothing has been done from here on out. And all we hear from coalitions is that they don't enjoy trust. There is no one who has the confidence to run this system. A similar story in the clinical centre, inherited by the Minister of Health's human resources investment, unreservedly supported a candidate who, by some procedure, withdrew from the conflict. Now what?Oh, my God! Probably a very similar story in oncology at the oncology institute. We do not have an order in basic institutions in the field of health. We do not have in the public system arranged if I look now at the Maribor Clinical Center, nor do we have the appropriate staffing structure for carrying out demanding operations. And I don't blame the director, but we know how the system works, we know where those who should set it up and make it possible; but nothing happens. You're dealing with some kind of rich guy here. The next problem, our health care can be good if it works in a comparable environment or in a comparable way as it works in neighbouring countries. I do not know why there is no problem of concessions in Austria or whether they are disputed in Germany or Italy or Croatia. I see that many of our people provide health services even in Croatia. And here's where some family's being created about what this is all about. With regard to the resolution of the law or what you have in public debate, I would like to draw attention to another part that has not been pointed out. If you look at the criminal provisions in this law, I think between 3 and 50 thousand are for someone who commits a crime, as stated in Article 9. These criminal provisions, if compared to the Tax Procedure Act, are exactly the same as the one that steals EUR 5 million. Look at the articles of the Tax Procedure Act, and you will see that even if someone does something, it is the same as under the Tax Procedure Act for the Worst Crimes in Tax evasion. I'm asking if that's comparable, that's normal. It's really about health and stuff, but I'm talking about the proportionality of some things. I think it's awfully high that these things are done that way. With regard to the Government's position on our proposal to recommend this item on the agenda, I must say that we have proposed very gentle recommendations. The first recommendation is that the National Assembly hold a debate on the proposed amendments to the Health Act. Do you know what the Ministry wrote in the proposal – that it does not support the proposed conclusions of the proposer. Nor does this ministry support this, and the coalition has accepted this, that we have held a debate in the National Assembly on the amendment of the Health Act. The most normal proposal for a decision a man can make. After five-, six-hour debate, you did not even recommend that we meet or hold a debate on this item on the agenda. You did not support the proposal, the dear government and the coalition, to call on the Ministry to review the comments and proposals of the Slovenian Medical Chamber for a new law and include them in the law. They even say they're studying and they're going to include things in the marriage. And we have made another recommendation that if solutions are found to be incompatible with European Union legislation, they should be withdrawn from the proposal. And you didn't accept that either. I ask the Government why it has such a relationship to the recommendations relating to the debate in the National Assembly, which has undoubtedly taken place? And you take the view that you support this proposal, so you say that this debate did not happen, according to your own words. What's the intellectual addition here, to this agenda item, for example? Can anyone explain it to me? Mr. Prikl, you run the committee, don't you? I ask. Or Mr. Gantar, you run the committee. I ask how it is possible not to support such things in the National Assembly, which undoubtedly happens, to discuss for six hours or to discuss for six hours, and to conclude that, according to the household, this has not been discussed in the National Assembly. Someone can explain that to me. Someone who understands Slovenian more than I do. This is what you do with the proposals proposed by the opposition Members for a debate in the National Assembly. And the way you go is kind of unfair, inappropriate, unworthy. How can we do something good for this country together, for our people, if you take such a decision that we have not even come to know each other, or if we have not even held a debate in the National Assembly that we have actually done. We actually did it, here we go, now we're having a debate. Many of you have said that we have not found a common language; and you have concluded that this debate has not been held. Unbelievable. The fact that you are doing so, or that you have such an approach to our proposals, suggests immeasurable arrogance, contempt for anyone else's proposal. Feels like you're always right in this area; but you don't. Events demean you, actions demean you, results demean you and so on. I see that for a lot of people in the coalition, it is more important how they will charge any additional costs at the expense of public funds and anything else. Not only travel, but also some fee or an increased meeting, to the place to deal with real things. And no one shakes anything in the coalition, no one. The President of the Government has covered everything peacefully, and the coalition Members do not discuss it and do not talk about it. But you see the problems with the concessionaire, you don't see the problem at the Faculty of Economics with Mr. Marble, with Mrs. Brenčič; you don't see the problem with anyone else in this healthcare system as well. However, you see extremely great problems and dangers in concessionaires, with almost none of these thousands and so many of you not taking concessions, or perhaps only rarely anyone. I don't think that's de-laxing what you're doing is going to go with the actual state. This just shows that in these discussions you want to take real problems from where they are to an area where they are not really seen. But if they are, you cover them. And since, after these discussions, you have also been following changes to the law, it is said that changes to the law are before the study, even though you referred to the study – this is visionary. This is a visionary approach that I doubt has any roots in some real data. I think that in the field of health, we should do some things that are more urgently needed. More than regulation of concessions, it is important to regulate procurement in public health. There, a lot of money turns around, and it may also wash a lot of money, because some suppliers have been exclusive suppliers for 20 years, supplying certain materials, certain devices, such and different to the health system. Why does the Minister here not make any decisive action, do no revisions, initiate no proceedings? Here is the task of the political system that over the part where there are probably problems and we all know that there is one; by the way – I also asked the President of the Government a few months ago, but nothing is done here. We see a problem where it's people's good, where waiting times and waiting times shorten. Above all, waiting periods are a problem, since it doesn't matter whether you're waiting for an operation for a month or nine months, that's a major difference, even in some difficult matter. And here the Ministry is involved in some things, but there is no activity in monitoring investments and carrying out public procurement concerning the supply of medical equipment, medical devices and material belonging to this. This is a health system rakrana, and if this area is regulated, from these existing contributions, existing resources could provide thousands of additional operations in various areas and thus please people and shorten the waiting for the operation. It would also reduce the pressure on going abroad and so on. In short, there is a lot of work in the areas that I have mentioned; less or significantly less, but also unpriority, in the area that you are dealing with. That's the problem. And unfortunately, the policy of all left-handed governments is such that it always brings topics where people deal primarily with themselves; with forms, with unnecessary changes, with unnecessary interventions. But it never brings things where they can and should happen important, crucial changes. In health care, this is an area of investment, an area of supply, aid, one or the other. Here we have average high prices compared to other countries. For example, look at the prices of orthopedic devices, we probably have 30, 40% higher prices than in neighbouring Austria; but you have to take from this supplier that is in the system. Similarly, in the field of pharmacology, plant protection products, in other areas, if we take agriculture and so on. These exclusive rights have been usurped and marketed by some. But they're putting things on the table that are basically working well, just to deal with it and not with the things that are taking a lot of money to this country. And this ends needlessly in private pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Sandra Tušar, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u88	Dear Members, the President-in-Office! The starting point or framework for the work of the Ministry of Health is a public health system and universal accessibility. As I heard in the debate, virtually everyone in this Chamber stands for the public health system. These are values that are also recognised in developed countries and highlighted by many health policy makers. The debate highlighted a number of areas, important areas in the health sector, which you believe do not work well. Let me tell you that the Ministry of Health also deals with these areas, with the foundation; not only with the roof and the results will soon be visible. The purpose of preparing the draft proposal is to stress that we have gone about terminology earlier, what was what was sent to the public debate. The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act was the regulation of the scope of concessions. The reasons for regulating this area are very well taken by Mr Kordiš from the United Left and we have heard them in today's debate. The solutions provided by the draft proposal are in accordance with European Union law. We do not end concessions, so the claim is that patients of thousands of 300 concessionaires will be left without a doctor, speculative and malicious. Concessionaires and public health establishments are already equal to today, existing legislation and will continue. We are working with the Court of Auditors to revise the concessions granted. The procedure will likely continue until the end of the year, and then we will also publish a joint audit report. The irregularities identified have already been heard several times, and I will repeat them that concessions are granted without public calls, distribution for indefinite periods, sale of concessions, transfer of concessions, distribution of concessions, distribution of concessions to the municipalities for health activities belonging to the secondary level, changes in the legal status of the healthcare provider. We will pay particular attention to the length of the concession area in the final proposal to be submitted to the Government, taking into account the minimum and maximum investment cycle. As you yourself said, the initial investment in fixed assets depends on the health activity carried out by the concessionaire. We're speeding up the public health network. The criteria are numerous and, among other things, will certainly take into account demographic trends, such as territorial coverage, accessibility, the number of people living with a doctor and many others. The need for 300 family medicine doctors has been highlighted. We have calculated that there is a need for 252 doctors; however, if we extend the reference clinics to the whole area of Slovenia, this need is significantly lower. As regards the extension of security during the transitional period, these are concrete solutions to be identified in the final proposal for a law to be submitted to the legislative procedure as envisaged. More than once, we have all stressed, including the Minister, that all comments made by stakeholders, more than 30, will be examined and used meaningfully and with the most important stakeholders before this solution is concluded. Regarding the competition of insurance companies. Experience from abroad shows that more insurance companies for compulsory health insurance are not rational; especially for a small population such as Slovenia, for 2 million people. We are not at all comparable to Germany, which has 80 million inhabitants, with the Netherlands with almost 17. It's so easy just to generalize, it's not possible. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the proposal for a law is in the stage of drafting a new text of the bill following comments received and proposals from the public debate. We are examining and addressing all the comments and proposals that have been received. We will also involve stakeholders who have included their responses in the public hearing of the draft bill. The drafting of the new text will address and take into account all the relevant proposals for amendments and additions to the text of the draft law. With regard to the question about the sources of analysis, I ask you if you can refer this question to the Ministry; however, we will answer you in writing, because it is very difficult to think about the sources, because there are many sources of analysis. That'll be all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Ms Jelka Godec, the last person to propose the proposal, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you very much. After five hours of discussion, we have heard that the main reason for amending the Health Act is what the United Left said, or Mr Kordish described it very well. This statement can become a matter of great concern. I am concerned that Mr Kordiš said clearly and loudly that all private property in the field of health should be abolished. And since you are referring to the United Left and because Mr. Kordish supports this law, I am essentially concerned that our findings are correct. It's about abolishing concessions. If you add one plus one, that's exactly what you get. And it is most worrying that you are saying that something will not happen, at the same time you agree with Mr. Kordish. That, Madam Secretary-General, is worrying, very much. And when we looked at the implementation of a colleague from the United Left and when I looked a little bit around the hall, then those who will support this Health Act here, in the National Assembly – because it will be the same, with little change like this draft – hold a fig in their pocket today, some very, or they will when they press "for". The fact that concessions have not been granted and under the Law on Public-Private Partnerships, I have already said that revision is necessary today, concluded; not at the end of the year when this law will be published or published. Who ensures that the new novels of the Health Action Act will be anything better than this Law on Public-Private Partnership? Who ensures that what is happening today will not happen after this new law? If this law has not already been respected either in the Ministry or in the municipalities or in the concessionaires, no one has taken this into account that concessions should be granted for a certain period of time, that all the conditions must be met. Who assures us that this law will now be respected, that all institutions that will prevent the abuse of the law will work? Nobody. Nor are the Members of the Modern Centre Party who today say that this draft law is okay because they will not provide anything. They don't. I'm afraid you can't answer any more, but I'm asking you who's giving us this. If we are unable or unable to oversee the Law on Public-Private Partnership today, you will not be able to have a new law. Once again, at the time of entry into the European Union, Slovenia regulated the scope of all concessions, including in health care, in the Law on Public-Private Partnership; however, we did not regulate rules relating to the functioning and financial situation of public institutions or public health homes. As I said, we have specified the concessionaires precisely, for a certain period of time they can carry out concessions under what conditions. In which area of health homes we are not, not yet. And that's because we don't have a public network, what you said. And how can you do concessions where the concession will be in if you don't have a certain public network! If you don't have a public network, if you don't even know what a health home is, what a concessionaire is, what a public network it is! And that's supposed to be done. It is contrary that everything is not in accordance with the law, the Constitution, the European directives. The fourth paragraph of Article 41 of this amendment, of this draft, provides that the concession may only be granted to a legal person provided that the sole or majority owner of the legal person is the responsible holder of the health activity. Concession shall cease if this condition changes and only a natural person may be granted at the primary level. Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states: The economic initiative is free. This means that entities freely choose the legal form under which they will operate; you now determine exactly what they should be at the primary level, so they must be self-employed natural persons. Most of the provisions contained in the draft Health Act are comparable to the Public-Private Partnership Act. It's about writing something new, something that doesn't fit in, or it's covered up. Once again, who guarantees that this law will now be respected as it should be; if you already deny the Law on Public-Private Partnership?Oh, my God! The next thing is the duration of concessions. Once again, in the second paragraph of Article 71 of the Law on Public-Private Partnership, it is stated that the duration of the public-private partnership relationship is determined by allowing the public-private partnership operator the stability and security of investment, the possibility of effective and secure investment financing, the return on investments and so on. The Law on Public-Private Partnership also lays down the conditions for the extension of the concession, which your novelty does not speak of anywhere. There is no record of conditions or flexibility. When you spoke about the European Union or Directives of the European Union, Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts in Article 52 states: "The maximum duration of the concession should be specified in the concession documentation." So not in law, because in law you basically cement the matter if I can express myself at home; but if you put in concessionary acts, you can determine some flexibility. Obviously, you are not able to provide this flexibility or you do not want to provide it. Article 11 of the proposed draft Health Act also states that an audit shall be carried out to re-apply within two years. The Law on Public-Private Partnership does not speak or provide for concessions to change under another law, as you anticipate. In fact, this is about disagreement, which is smart; because then the concession contract concluded under the Law on Public-Private Partnership would change according to your amendment of the law, which is somehow not in accordance with the law. Today we have heard a lot of comments, but in particular we have heard what should be done in the field of public health before this regulation of concessions. What has been mentioned, including by coalition parties – not only on our side, that you will not say that only in the opposition, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we list what should be done – we have heard that many things need to be arranged in advance before we even touch these concessions. That there are many other anomalies that need to be solved earlier — of waiting types in public health, completely public health, that is, in hospitals where they are not on concessions. You say you're handling this. When are you going to fix it, the question is, if not. Why the recommendations proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party have not been accepted, although my colleague Tanko has already said some things. In fact, if we propose such recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have concluded that we have held a debate, the coalition is voting against, and it does not even think about what they are voting on. I think sometimes, because you just have to vote against it. It is clear, however, that the largest coalition party is certainly not in a position to support the recommendation that those articles which are in the draft of this Law on Health Activities, which are not in accordance with other legislation, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Directives, should be deleted. Why does he not vote because they have repeatedly voted by violating the law or the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and this is an understandable matter. At the same time, I must say that our party, or the Slovenian Democratic Party, has also been seen to be working in the area of some friendly ties, to grant concessions. I've already said that the review should be made and the charges should be made accordingly. But I think the Ministry has some opportunities to get it right on concessions. I cannot agree with the fact that a colleague from the Modern Centre Party said that this minister is not interested in individual interests. Once again, it is not necessary to go far back when the Minister has taken a firm stand for one single interest, this is the directorship of UKC Ljubljana. I will say this because we have a bad practice with the Ministry of Health, with regard to the emergency medical regulation, I have to say again, because we have here decided that the Ministry will enter into force before the regulation comes into force, informing the National Assembly of the final version. That wasn't there. Thank God this law will have to come to the National Assembly before the final adoption, and we will deal with it here. But all that has been said today by the substitute ministers on the SMC side and on your part, I regret once again that there is no minister here to be held to her word, I believe not, but I hope that you will take into account the proposals made in the public debate. In particular, those who speak of the need to eliminate those articles which do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which do not comply with the European Directives and which constitute harm to public health and concessionaires. Prepare such a law that will be in accordance with our legislation, the Constitution and European directives. At the same time, it would certainly be better if you first review existing concessions to make a network or tell them what the public health network is like; and then do what you say you are doing now – that is, improving public health and so on. But a lot more things are meant to be saved than these concessions. The fact that the recommendations have not been adopted has already been said by colleague Tanko and is in fact quite funny that you do not want to accept recommendations such as taking into account the comments of the Medical Chamber, which is a representative body to which you constantly refer to the Ministry of Health when necessary; but when you do not want to hear it, you do not. And to put out of this novel all those articles that do not comply with the legislation, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the European directives. Tell the minister it's definitely better for the law to wait. Do other things in public health first, so that people do not wait in waiting lines, such as — a year, two or more; then talk about concessions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The list is exhausted. There's something else we have to do. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please apply, this also applies to the Government and the proposer if you want another word. Please sign up. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. I used to run out of time. There is no doubt that changes in the implementation and award of concessions are necessary. What I wanted to stress, too, is that we are essentially ahead of changes in the health system, which I think we all agree are needed for purely normal reasons – because of the old legislation, because of the changes that have taken place, demographically and so on. And some irregularities have also been reported in this area. However, it would be nice because these changes are intended to include changes in the field of concession activities as a comprehensive solution to what will follow in the field of the public health system. This makes sense because we are changing it so that it can continue to follow developments, that it will be accessible, that it will be transparently regulated, that it is solidarity, that everything we imagine will be within the framework of the public health system. Here they are now excluded from this context, given that we are just ahead of more extensive changes, in some ways it is questionable to me. The other thing is, there's a lot of talk, and we've heard a lot about the fact that there's no network. How does anyone imagine a network? The fact is, the primary level network is, in particular, the family doctors. This was a network that was prepared, coordinated with the municipalities, prepared on the basis of the supplies of the population. This network, it needs to be known that it is safe or essential to differ from the network on a secondary level, because at the primary level it is important that you have a doctor close, accessible, to get to it quickly. For a secondary level, the difference is whether you go once a few years or twice a year to a specialist. Many choose the one who is better today, can go to the other end of Slovenia and go there. That is why, of course, this network cannot be done in the same way. We know how many specialists you need, cardiologists, surgeons per hundred thousand inhabitants, per million inhabitants, and then the network will adapt. But certainly not in the way that most people imagine or in the way that is set at the primary level. The matter has been brought to this extent, that where it is crucial, it is a network. Maybe a few reflections on the concessions themselves. If I had the opportunity and I was a little younger to decide on the concession and the terms were given, the invitation to tender would be ready; it would be very difficult for me to decide that someone would say that in 15 years, and then we will see what happens. And all the discussions that followed were essentially the result or the key problem was in this part of the duration of the concessions, because you don't know what will happen after you finish the 15-year period. This was not apparent from the proposal. It was obvious that there was an advantage to the public office. The investment contractor will then decide whether after 10 years he will invest or not to invest or withdraw. However, we already have equipment problems in public institutions. We know it's 80 percent spent. Therefore, I also think that in some way the solution mentioned above is an investment cycle to be taken into account. I don't know if that's a good decision. I think it's a much smarter or a meaningful solution, and I agree that the formulation for indefinite time is probably questionable. But it's possible to agree, say, to compare the concessionaire, I don't know, for five years, for seven years; a matter of agreement. Does he fulfil the conditions, or has he violated the rules of the ZZZ or has he violated the professional rules? Whether he's got a working frame, but he's got a good room, good equipment. And he would, of course, have the right to extend the concession for the next period. Only this would not put him under the stress of re-scheduling or anything like that. I think that such a proposal has already been prepared in this context and would probably also be significantly more acceptable to concessionaires. Here I am counting on what the ministry has promised – a debate, an opportunity to agree and take account of some arguments. And I believe that this area will also be adequately resolved in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude the 13th item of the agenda. I am also adjourning the 15th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
