ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Vojka Šergan until 5 p.m., Irena Grošelj Kosnik between 13 p.m. and 15 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček from 12 a.m. to 12 p.m., Matjaž Han, Matjaž Han until 14 p.m., Franc Laj and Marko Ferluga between 13 a.m. and 15 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to six. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members! We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration governing the functioning of the Government, the powers for individual departments, for which we have also proposed or agreed, after careful consideration within the Government, the amendments that we are proposing today to the esteemed assembly for confirmation. This is a law governing the internal functioning of the Government, and the basic purpose is to ensure that those tasks and functions are carried out as effectively as possible, which the Government is also obliged to provide. In the content of the law before you, if I summarize briefly, we want to complement the Ministry of Economy's work in the field of funeral and funeral activities; in this area, the actual Ministry is already working intensively. We want to transfer competence in the area of systematic regulation of corruption from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Ministry of Justice, as has been the case in the past. In particular, this system-wide regulation of corruption because of its legal nature, importance, procedural aspect, systemic regulation and the regulation of the rights and obligations of participants in the proceedings before the PSC is such a difficult area to assess that the Ministry of Justice can carry out it better, as it is already under its jurisdiction to regulate the work of the courts, the prosecutions, the judiciary, the Constitutional Court, and the work of the Ombudsman and the Commission to prevent corruption are being carried over by this change. Thus, in one place, the functioning of all these organs, which I have listed, is systematically and in sync. Of course, the Ministry of Public Administration will continue to cover the area of transparency, strengthening public sector integrity, because this is part of the basic public sector action and this is a task that we cannot and do not want to avoid and is of great importance to us. We also want to determine the competences of the Organization and the status of the Ombudsman and to examine, plan, implement fundamental human rights at the Ministry of Justice, which is an area that has not been explicitly defined in the Law on State Administration, and therefore we believe that, because of its importance, it must be clear which sector is the holder of this area and which is also defined in the Ministry of Justice by this amendment of the law. At the same time, we propose to transfer the field of information society and electronic communications from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to the Ministry of Public Administration. At the same time, the tasks and responsibilities of Arnes’ agency remain at the Ministry of Education, as it has been so far. In the past, this area has been placed in different ministries, even a single ministry, and by transferring to the Ministry of Public Administration we will take advantage of synergies in knowledge and technology, while at the same time stressing that these are two separate focus areas, separate areas that will be able to seek synergies with knowledge and equipment, while leaving these two separate directorates because they also have different powers. With this transfer of area, of course, the Ministry of Public Administration also commits itself to implementing the Digital Slovenia 2020 strategy and the recently adopted Cyber Security Strategy, both very ambitious, demanding and will also be very important for our ministry to implement these strategies. At the same time, we also lay down competences to ensure the functioning of the eGovernment national portal, safe drawers, central online registration services, electronic regulations and all trust services that are key to the country's e-business with citizens and possibly later new services, such as electronic elections or something like that. We introduce an electronic central directory or base for its management, which we need to have under law. From the process of centralising the management of immovable property, we exclude dwellings in the management of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence and complexes used for protocol events. These authorities will continue to manage these properties independently of centralisation. On a proposal from the Government's Law Service, we also eliminate the inconsistencies between the Law on State Administration and the Law on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and introduce a declaration as a new act of the Minister, which applies mainly to the transposition of European rules into our legal order, in which we are obliged to inform the public and then to use it as a new mechanism for public information. So much for the proposed changes, but I am more looking forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. What a lovely greeting to all present! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 23rd session. 6. 2016 as a parent working body treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law. The Committee was presented with an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Services, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for National Organisations, the call for an initiative for an inclusive dialogue on the development of a digital society in Slovenia to reject the consideration of the draft law after a reduced procedure, the comments of the Forum for Digital Society, the proposal of the Joint Left Group for the withdrawal of the point and the proposal of the amendments. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out Article 3 of the draft law and questions concerning the possible threat to the integrity of administrative tasks and the determination of the proposed solution. It also highlighted the new 74th Article introducing the central directory on which the issue of the protection of personal data is raised. The representative of the Commission for the National Organisation of the State Council made a proposal to the Commission, which supports the bill. The KPK representative, Mr Boris Štefanec, expressed disagreement about the way in which the bill was drafted and explained that the Commission had not been involved in its creation. The urgency of participation was explained by the fact that the proposal for a law confers the competence of systematic regulation of the restriction of corruption from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Ministry of Justice, while at the same time expressing disagreement with the transfer, as the fight against corruption is in his opinion linked to the public sector itself. The representatives of the Digital Society Forum Dr Dušan Caf and Dr Tomaž Kalin also expressed disagreement about the way in which the bill was drafted. As a problem, they highlighted the movement of the Directorate for Information Society to the Ministry of Public Administration, as the Ministry is operationally involved in informing the public administration rather than the policy of the information society. In the debate, members and members of a committee of opposition members drew attention to the exclusion of the professional public from the drafting of the bill and the adoption of the draft law after a reduced procedure, which they did not consider to be a valid reason. They also expressed disagreement with the already mentioned transfer of competences in the field of systematic limitation of corruption at the Ministry of Justice. The members of a coalition committee supported the bill and its amendment, primarily on the basis of the nature of the law itself in the state administration, by which each government organises its own action in a way that aims to make it more effective. Amendments have already been tabled to the draft law, within a time limit by the SDS Group of Members, and amendments by the coalition groups that have also been adopted have been tabled at the Committee's meeting. This has made the amendments of the SDS Group irrelevant. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and also adopted them. All the amendments tabled or accepted are an integral part of the report and are included in the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u6	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! The Law on State Administration is a law governing the functioning of the Government and the competence of ministries with a view to the best possible implementation of public policies and tasks at individual ministries. In pursuit of this objective, the government, of which we are also part, has prepared a new Law on State Administration, which re-regulations powers in certain ministries. This amendment to the Law on State Administration governs the completion of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's work area relating to funeral and burial activities. In fact, the Ministry is already managing that work area, but it manages it on the basis of a decision. A new amendment from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Ministry of Justice also extends competence in the field of systematic regulation and limitation of corruption. The Ministry of Public Administration has assessed that the Ministry of Justice will carry out these tasks more effectively and professionally. According to the Government, competence in the field of the organisation and status of the Ombudsman and the exercise of fundamental human rights is now not adequately regulated. With a view to better and more effective treatment and regulation, the field of study, planning, the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms is transferred to the Ministry of Justice. The proposed amendment to the Law on State Administration also aims to ensure the economy, transparency and coordinated management of real estate and to improve and rationalise the management of immovable property. The proposed supplement excludes dwellings and holiday units in the administration of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence from the centralisation of real estate management processes and properties consisting of complexes used for protocol events or events. These amendments and additions can be acceptable and also understandable, and we support them as Members and Members of the Social Democrats. However, we have concerns about the transfer of the field of information society and electronic communications from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to the Ministry of Public Administration. We have already expressed our concerns about the transfer of the information society to another ministry by the Social Democrats once before, and we also have this thought today. We agree that informing public administration is important, but it is only part of the development of the information society. We understand the information society more widely; this includes the education and research system, the economy, especially innovative companies in the field of information and communication technologies, and all business and private users of information and communication technologies, including non-governmental organisations. In short, if we borrow a professional explanation of what an information society is, it is a global phenomenon with technological, economic, professional, spatial, cultural, political dimension and the dimension of rapid change. Other countries are setting up a ministry for this most vital part of economic progress, and we are putting it under the auspices of a ministry that covers only public administration and has no connection to development, at least not the one that should have had, due to the importance of the information society. We therefore consider that there is no substantive reason for the information society to be transferred under the auspices of the Ministry of Public Administration. This is also why we do not have the single support of the proposed amendment to the Law on State Administration in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u7	The text is given by the United Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u8	Respectable present, lovely greetings! If the government had respected its pre-election promises and the coalition agreement at least a little bit, this proposal would not have been before us today. Unfortunately, after two years, it is clear that the promises of a dialogue with civil society on transparency, the fight against corruption, ethics and the need to make empty promises. This proposal, which we have before us, is clear evidence of this. In secrecy, intransparency and without the possibility of professional and interested public participation, the draft law contains two major amendments which many strongly oppose. In practice, reckless and controversial changes are interlinked. The proposal brings the fight against corruption to the Ministry of Justice, but this is not a comprehensive transfer, but one part of the area will simply be deleted. The risk that the fight against corruption will not be addressed in a comprehensive manner is also noted by the Legislative and Legal Service. Since the proposal was prepared in secret, the Commission has only carried out changes to prevent corruption in the media and, of course, it is completely opposed to the proposal. Closely linked to more than the necessary solutions to effectively fight corruption is the second major amendment of the law that passes the information society to the Ministry of Public Administration. The transmission is opposed by an extremely wide range of experts and has not been allowed by the Ministry of Cooperation in the drafting of the law. It would be difficult to speak only of some unnecessary complaint about the procedure for the adoption of the law. The warnings of the profession are more than serious. They warn, I quote, "With the adoption of the proposed law, honourable Members and Members, you will put in a large systemic corruption risk." Didn't that trigger a red alarm at the coalition? Informationization is an area where there is a lot of money in the game, an area where there are so-called controversial and non-transparent practices. If we look at only the field of state information, which is already under the control of the Ministry of Public Administration, this has allocated a little over €8.5 million for wages between January 2015 and May 2016. During the same period, the first seven companies in the field of information technology with whom it cooperated paid a poor EUR 22.5 million. If they were to add up all the amounts by other ministries and bodies, there would be around €100 million per year and business names are repeated for everyone. So there are at least 100 million reasons why many chaos in the field of computer science fits. Lobbies are influential, but appetites are great, and since the same chaos after the transfer of power is still taking place in the field of the information society, for a reason, we can hold our head today or for a wallet — is it not? Experts who control the area and know it very well warn that if this law is passed, the Minister of Public Administration will become the largest buyer and contractor, the writer of development policy, the policy director, the writer of legislation and the independent regulator of all of these; and all of this in one person. This is therefore an exclusive or school case of conflict of interest which creates the ideal conditions for increasing non-transparent business and increasing corruption risk. The opposition of the Commission to prevent corruption, the opposition of the professional and interested public, and the comments and warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service, which even points to possible unconstitutionality, should certainly be sufficient to reject the proposal. In the United Left, of course, we will vote against the bill. In this case, rejection of the proposal is the only appropriate one. The vote is to support the continuation of chaos both in the field of state information technology and in the field of information society, to support the continuation of non-transparent practices and corruption risks and to support solutions that are likely to be constitutionally controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u9	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u10	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Indeed, corruption in public administration represents a great glass in the name of a democratic society, and there is no doubt that corruption is largely present in our country and that all measures so far have shown, both at the legislative level and in practice, that we need a comprehensive approach to systematic regulation of the restriction of corruption, but at the same time in New Slovenia we are convinced that the adoption of amendments and the addition of only this law, the Law on State Administration, after a reduced procedure, thus without arguments, without the participation of the professional public, cannot produce the appropriate effects in order to limit corruption in public administration. Therefore, it is not a minor change of law, as you said in the introduction, but it is a matter of weighing the content of the work of each ministry, which consequently has a major impact on the systemic limitation of corruption and the development of information technology, including the management of information and communication systems of the state administration. The transfer of the competences of systematic regulation of the restriction of corruption from the Ministry of Public Administration at the Ministry of Justice in the absence of other interventions in Slovenia will not bring less corruption and will continue to be able to say that we are a mafia state, but without appropriate measures. Since it is not a transfer of all competences in this area, but only the area of systemic regulation of the restriction of corruption, it is a matter of the Government's intention to propose a change on the ground. Such an approach does not indicate systemic regulation, which is supposed to be the objective of the novel, but rather the opposite; it causes confusion, as one area of work will henceforth be divided between two ministries. What exactly does the Government see the advantages of such internal organisation? In what? At the same time, it seems that she does not really know what this essential division is. It is also unclear what the real reason is for transferring the competence of the work of Arnes, which concerns the field of work of the information society from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to the Ministry of Public Administration. The division of this area due to the high probability of conflicts of interest is not sufficiently substantiated and the development of the information society, including electronic communications, is now extremely important and we must not afford any stagnation, so the involvement of the professional public in public debates and in the legislative process is absolutely necessary, but unfortunately this has not been the case. In all of this, there is no doubt, however, that each government, by means of a law on state administration, organises its own activities in order to achieve the best possible functioning and efficiency. It is therefore also right that such decisions are also responsible, and it is right to look together over time at the results of the organisation of the government's work or, in this case, the transfer of those powers between individual ministries. In New Slovenia we will also support the SDS amendment, as it reflects insufficient knowledge of the Government in the field of the system of limiting corruption and the field of information society and electronic communications. Without the established information society strategies, there will be no progress. In view of the fact that we are extremely critical of this transfer, as regards the limitation of corruption and also the transmission of electronic communications, this bill will not be challenged by the Government's decision on its own way of action, but at the same time the Minister has all the responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u11	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u12	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! In recent times, we have seen a pattern of the coalition's behaviour towards the opposition, rejecting our proposals as inappropriate for further treatment as non-systemic, as non-explanatory, have no comparison with foreign and transfer good practices and are contrary to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and I have therefore repeatedly pointed out that I expect, in view of the criticisms, that all proposals of the coalition will be just reversed in order to meet all the conditions. If we do a brief analysis of the bill on state administration, we see that the preparation was untransparent, even mysterious. The purpose of such changes is unclear. These are strategic changes, not small ones, as the applicant is trying to show; there was no integration of the economy, of civil society, and even less of the professions they have always warned about. There is no implementation of experience from abroad where good practices from abroad are transmitted in similar samples. I believe that this is entirely the opposite of the conduct of the bill. Deceptive arguments! What we have heard from the arguments – just optimization, rationalisation and so on, no professional arguments. Solutions do not eliminate corruption risks; even more, they allow corruption risks, the impact of lobbying on decision-making centres, as we have heard from Mr Cerar in recent days, is only increasing. Multinationals in the field of information technology are increasingly influential and increasingly profitable. The trip to America by the Prime Minister and his team did not bring positive solutions; even more, multinationals withdrew from Slovenia and Croatia prospers in this area. Science and professions that bear the development of information technology have not been taken into account. And what is most crucial is not defined as financial consequences. I'm afraid he's going to blow up money in a cloud so strongly advocated by the Ministry of Public Administration. In order to conclude that civil society warnings have not been taken into account, the opposition to the profession, the absence of dialogue and debate, the display of changes as very small and irrelevant, although these are tectonic movements. As far as corruption is concerned, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service has not been taken into account that we are not discussing systemic corruption at all. However, last but not least, the financial consequences are not exposed and shown. I myself am particularly concerned that the Academic Research Network of Slovenia passes under another roof. I am particularly concerned here that the independence of researchers will not be ensured, because data security and data protection will not be ensured and conflicts of interest will not be resolved. As a result of all the changes proposed in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we cannot support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u14	Your Honor! We support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration, which we are considering today, in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. At the outset, it must be said that the Law on State Administration was certainly once within any government mandate, can also be amended and dealt with several times by means of a reduced or even urgent procedure and has never been given to public debate, and no one has given it a problem since it is an organisational arrangement of an individual government. Now for the contents of the novel. We need to understand the State administration as an instrument for the performance of its executive functions in various areas, and so that the tasks and objectives set by the Government are properly carried out and achieved. With a view to more efficient implementation of the tasks, the Government has therefore proposed the following amendments to the Law on State Administration. The proposed amendment provides for the completion of the work areas of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in the field of funeral and funeral activities, which regulates the existing situation legally, since it is actually already in the process of carrying out tasks in this area. The amendment confers competence on the Ministry of Justice in the field of organisation and the status of legislative regulation of the Ombudsman. The latter is also added to the scope of studying and planning the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms. However, the drafting of laws for the exercise of individual human rights and the monitoring of the situation will continue to be the responsibility of individual ministries. From the Ministry of Public Administration to the Ministry of Justice, systematic regulation of tasks related to the fight against corruption and integrity in the Republic of Slovenia is transferred, it is said, to state monitoring activities, policy-making and regulatory preparation. It is estimated that the field of limiting corruption can be more effectively implemented within the Ministry of Justice due to the obligations of participants in the proceedings, in particular due to the involvement of the Commission's work to prevent corruption with the State Prosecutor's Office and other authorities, but it is also a more substantively related area, given the powers of jurisdiction of the courts, the State Prosecutor's Office, the State Attorney's Office and the Constitutional Court. However, the Ministry of Public Administration remains responsible for strengthening public sector integrity and transparency. The Ministry of Public Administration has added additional tasks and responsibilities to the information society directorate by taking over the area under its auspices under this amendment. By transferring the work area of the information society, the Government wants to stop the ten-year stagnation of the development of the digital society, pool resources and strengthen resources with state information technology, using the experience already available by the Ministry of Public Administration from cross-sectoral cooperation and with the centralisation of public administration information. Despite all the objections we have received in writing and in the debate on the Committee, we have not heard any strong argument, a concrete reason why the placement of this Directorate at the MJU is not appropriate, but simply an objection to the reduced process of enacting law and the apparent conflict of interest between the public administration and the information society. The latter are not justified because the Directorate for the Information Society will operate separately from the Directorate for Informatics, which will continue to cover the functioning and optimisation of state information technology. The transfer will make it easier for the MJU to pursue the strategic objectives set out in the Digital Slovenia 2020 framework. It should also be pointed out that Arnes remains under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and an operationally unified institution. The transfer of the information society area was identified as a necessary measure at the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce to improve the situation, and until this move by the Government was also defined by Dr. Borka Jerman Blažič, former member of the Arnes Committee of Experts and Management. The proposal was supported by the members of the Commission of the National Council for State Arrangements. The novel's proposal, as has already been said, has our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u15	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I usually check, I don't have a reminder under such simple laws, but today I have such a fat head in front of me, but that doesn't mean I won't know what to quote from it, but there's something else I want to say. This law does not have our support, more or less the other parliamentary groups have already said what and how. Let me first touch on this transfer of the field of information society and telecommunications to the MJU and I will start with a question to the Minister and the two State secretaries. In fact, Dr. Paule Gantar, who served as President of the National Assembly, opposes this law; Franci Pivec, former Minister, opposes this law; Jernej Pikalo, former Minister, opposes this law; Žiga Turk, former Minister, opposes this law; Tomaž Kalin, State Secretary of Telecommunications, once opposed this law; Natasha Pirc Musar, probably does not have to represent this law; Andrej Flogie, former Director of the Directorate for Information Society, also opposes this law; Dr. Dusan Caf, former President of the Electronic Communications Council – I hope that Mr. Zajc listens to me when I mention – he opposes this law; Mag. Simona Delakorda, director of the Institute for Electronic Participation, opposes this law; Benjamin Lesjak, director of the Institute for Legal Solutions of the Maribor Information Society, opposes this law. Mr Zajc, however, listed one state official who supports this law. Isn't that interesting? And the question for you sitting behind me, the Minister and both Secretary of State, is what it says here, what these people are writing. So they say that the amendment of the law brings professionally unfounded and developmentally harmful changes in competences for the further development of an open digital society in Slovenia, highlights levers to sustain the internet – u, therefore money is – especially to some people for the functioning of Internet key centralised functions – and so on, I do not have time to read it. Now you tell me why you three are smarter than everyone else. This is a whole bunch of former ministers covering this area, that's a whole bunch of directors of the Directorates, that's a bunch of secretaries of state. Now you're telling me you're smarter. Because you're not. We can't support this marriage. It's a clear matter. I have with me so many written contradictions between different institutions, different individuals, different people who have nothing to do with the left, right or any other policy, but they are all against such solutions. The government, the minister thinks otherwise. So it's about money. And what Mrs Tomic has said has, of course, been true. I would expect you to be in the coalition, even though I agree with what my forerunner said, that each coalition governs the sphere of government or ministries by its own means, although in principle it is completely true and also in the past, but at least in my memory it is usually the first law of the government coalition when it comes to a mandate. What's happening now that we're in the middle of this government story, in the middle of the term, of course, smells like something else. It smells like you're taking this story even more into corrupt waters. Another area covered by this law is the transfer of systemic corruption regulation. Isn't that interesting?Oh, my God! Who's this area going to? This area goes to Mr Klemenčič and Mr State Secretary, who is sitting here behind me. Um, great! But these two gentlemen have already run this area, and these two gentlemen have already dealt with this area. So, in the area of corruption. And the current President of the Anti-Corruption Commission said that they had left his infected shoes with the fungi of illegality. Isn't that interesting? And now again you give this area to people who wear infected shoes with fungi of illegality, these are the words of the head of the KPK. Isn't it interesting, the coalition? Think about it. The Prime Minister of the Government will continue to be able to say that the Mafia is in control of this country. Thank you very much. We won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u17	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u18	Good afternoon, Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to give you a position on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. There have already been some open questions on the draft law we have on the parliamentary benches on the home working body. For example, whether it is appropriate to transfer the Directorate for the Information Society from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to the Ministry of Public Administration and whether it makes sense to transfer competences in the work of the preparation of the system legislation on the prevention of corruption, but I stress here, but not to ensure its implementation from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Ministry of Justice run by Goran Klemenčič. In the Desus Group, we have carefully examined the explanations of the ministries of the field on open issues and have concluded that these are good solutions. Why is that? As Minister Koprivnikar has already said and explained many times, important strategic documents such as the Information Society Development Strategy should be implemented by different sources and stakeholders. The basic conditions for success in the field of digital transformation, however, are the round work area and in no way the dispersion of state computer networks. The transfer of the Directorate to the Ministry of Public Administration will thus contribute to a more efficient and coordinated implementation of the tasks in this area, and last but not least, the transfer takes place with agreement and at the initiative of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. It is at the Ministry of Education that they believe that the framework of their ministry is narrower than that of an information society, while the Ministry of Public Administration has emerged as one of the important and appropriate areas, as it covers a number of areas of the company's activities and the real progress in the field of information society and the cessation of stagnation should be a fundamental objective. As far as Minister Klemenčič is concerned. We cannot avoid the impression that in reality there is no interference with the transfer of powers in the drafting of system-wide anti-corruption legislation at the Ministry of Justice, such as the Minister himself as the former head of the anti-corruption commission. The necessary changes to anti-corruption legislation have already been pointed out by international institutions, and Slovenia needs a different concept of ensuring integrity and preventing corruption, following the warnings of international institutions, which will lead to the preparation of a new bill. The fact that a bare transfer to the drafting of systemic legislation, following a decision by the legislator to move from one ministry to another, constitutes an intervention to the independence of the institution is, in particular, in view of the fact that the relationship between the KPK and the Government does not change in any way, completely unfounded and is therefore not comprehensible. Last but not least, the Law on State Administration has been amended in the same way eight times, and no one has bothered to do so. This is a process that has been practiced by all governments so far; left, right and, if you like, central, the transfer of powers between ministries is quite common. Let me recall, it was the government of Janez Janša that, at the time of its term of office, in 2004 despite opposition from the professional public after a reduced procedure, abolished the Ministry of Information Society, whose tasks it delegated to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, headed by the Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Let me get this over with. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal in the light of the above and of the other amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u19	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll tell you in advance that I won't be short, I've got almost 25 minutes, and I'll cook most of it, so if you have to go get water, go. At the outset, I must say that the Minister is the most skilled minister in the SMC quota, or I can even say that he is almost the only one who understands politics in a narrower sense. When he presented these changes to us, he nicely entangled or entangled us all alive, but he did not tell us some of the essence that this change he is proposing is being introduced, against which we have actually resisted all those who have been working in this country for decades in the field of information, information and telecommunications. Dr. Gorenak listed this long list — by the way, it was a lapsus, Simon Delacorda, not Simon. In fact, if we were to whistle at all the politics and what it was and what it wasn't, if someone was a little bit looked at in this Slovenia, and saw the name and surname of Dr. Kalin, and knew little about what this gentleman was doing in his life, what capacity in this area, it might be a little flash. One person was quoted by Mr SMC, a lady who was very important for the development of information technology in particular in the 1990s, who is somehow now agreeing to this proposal. This lady has some resentment between the Institute of Joseph Stefan and Arnes, who first started to develop the Internet in Slovenia – a little read letters from readers – and this is kind of a small part of the background. What this marriage is basically, I'm going to start with a quote by August Demshar, the book of Pohorska Transversal. August Demšar is my man, best detective writer in Slovenia, we waited three years for his eighth book. The quote is from page 215, which is placed in the mouth of a fictitious lady named Adriana and working at the NPU, quote, "It is not all stolen and distributed. The crumbs are still available, and not just this one, but something on the thickly oiled pieces of bread is still waiting." And that's the heart, the essence of what we're talking about here. More experienced politicians have said - because the SMC argument went like this, because each government has changed something, it has followed this law, but as they said to a policy with a longer kilometre, of course, it happens at the beginning. With all ethics and morality, and so on, I expected that this government would reduce the number of ministries, that it would already show through the names of the number of ministries that SMC is not an empty bag – by the way, "off the record" I even advised them, but they did not. Let's get to the point now. I'm not going to talk about corruption, this is what the expert on corruption has been talking about, but I'm going to talk about things that I'm an expert on. For starters, I'll read you a few questions about some audit. "The institution's solutions were not interconnected and did not allow access to all data to anyone who rightly needed it. The agency's solutions did not support the work of certain organisational units, as additional separate information solutions were therefore developed. The work was largely based on documentation in paper form. The Office has not defined the rules for the sharing of data. The information solutions did not support the sharing of data within the same solution. Employees from the institution had to manually fill in a series of forms and then tap this data into information solutions. Many information solutions of the Institute did not electronically exchange data, so the employees beat them. The Institute used three unrelated information solutions to record working time. Some organizational units of the institution led the working hours manually. Data on working time had to be translated manually into an information solution for accounting. The Institute did not have complete electronic material records on individual organisational units. The Institute has used several information solutions with dual or similar functionality. The Institute bought several information solutions that it did not use, started using only years later, or left them in a short time. The Institute has ordered the development of several information solutions and the rights of their amendments have been retained by external suppliers. The Office could therefore not order the maintenance of the upgrading of information solutions following those procurement procedures that would provide it with the most favourable prices. Part of the purchases of computer equipment for end-users took place outside the procurement procedures and the office for part of this equipment had no information on who took it and who used it. The Office has not clearly defined responsibilities for individual aspects of information security. The Institute has not systematically recorded the identity of external colleagues who have been able to access sensitive data as part of their work. Part of active user access belonged to former employees or it was not possible for them to determine who was using them. The Office did not ensure that security data are downloaded and that system software and database management tools are systematically updated. The opinion did not ensure that information support would effectively support its functioning." I'm reading you an infograph of the Court of Auditors on what? Have you figured out which institution this is? Have you read these, Members and Members of Parliament? University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, which provides about €10 million per year for IT. We live in the 21st century, we have this country for 25 years, and this is basically how we have organised computer science in the public administration sector, the state administration. There's no difference between governments here. So far, the United Left has not been in the government, we will not have a problem with the Minister of Information, not be afraid. I can look all over the spectrum. I have a very good memory. Some then and now the state bank Nova Ljubljanska Banka – the Australian Information System. Let another story more right-wing Tetra out souring, too few base stations, turn off cryptography and get an affair of Ornik. One story, which I repeatedly ask a party that is the longest in executive policy, SD, a house company that writes a programme for €6 000 500, gets to maintain over €600,000 a year past the public tender. Yesterday, a colleague of Kordish spoke about social assistance and others that would amount to a million-and-a-half million over the two-and-a-half million public tender. My dears, you've all done this. And then comes the SMC, which has a full mouth, what will be one new, different ah and oh politics – and what does it do? After two years, it comes to the taste of manning, it comes to the taste of money, and that's why it's making this move. I'm sorry that Bojan didn't talk – now I need a glass of water and I don't have one — about some foreign practices. In Austria, this is what informatics is available to the Prime Minister. In all the normal countries that want to deal with it, they have separately these matters, which Violeta read in the position and which many experts have pointed out. With energy, because most of the time we're sitting here at the meetings, you're half a "screw," you're half a "screw" now. We all need discipline, and we live in an information society. But all companies are informational, there from Mesopotamia on. The problem with Slovenia, as a society that is not smart enough, is that it is too weak to think about itself, has too little internal cybernetics and is therefore also in many areas of imploding. We don't know how to listen. Heart rate. Now there's a lot going on over my head not to talk about some stuff about how we're dating. I remember the first computer science to become independent about the health system when they wanted to know how confidential information about patients — if you remember — would be transmitted through floppy disks among themselves. We are here and then after some urgent procedure you push this because you want to take this position, then a fictitious public debate takes place one day before the board meeting to be satisfactory. Yesterday we had a constitutional water law, now the absent leader of the SMC Group, who boasted about how not only politics, how we have included here, as it is called, stakeholders, civil society in the debate, but here literally that we are all bent: left-wing, right-wing, insolvent, which we are familiar with in the field of computer science, and then Mr Zajc reads that there were no arguments. I don't mean to be rude, but the very part of the coalition tells you that it has many reservations. There are no arguments because you can't hear them; there are no arguments because, as one columnist wrote, "riding" on these 35 votes you have, and that's never going to do anything to me – that I won't start singing turbo pop now. That's it. In some computer society, some kind of move and say, these are some of our internal affairs, this is not whether you have a toilet on the left or on the right and whose minister will have a bigger shower and bigger car because in Slovenia everything starts and ends. Obviously. This law, this way, this debate – this is criminal! Mr Minister, you do not have parliamentary immunity, someone should sue you – I apologize, I speak as an expert in this area. Any 25 years. In the State Administration, I have a friend, I will not name him who came from one of the organisations mentioned, to work on this department under a gentleman who was then there, who is now once again a gentleman at another important institution, and they gave him the first proposal of orders and then, of course, they put his ears on because this proposal should be written in such a way that he knows who will get this order. This is a practice that has happened here in this country. Whether the proposals are written to know exactly who will get it, and often those who get it will make a slap and some of my friends who have stayed in programming have to fix it. The fact that we are not aware of this is also a fine example of the Ministry of Defence's information when it was said that what they would do in a year and something. I'm really more of a pacifist, but if I understand this a little bit, you know this is a transition that takes at least half a dozen years, if not a dozen years, and then we get the stunt that we got. And one person who was responsible there, you have now brought her to your ministry, Mr. Secretary. If we touch the story of departures to the United States of America. The one from Youth wondered in what aggregate state the government went there, whether it was a government visit or a private visit. As far as I can tell, no, no other Undersecretary in the rank comparable to the United States of America has accepted you. Some of my acquaintances working in the IT sector said, "You know, Franjo, that's right; bosses go on this kind of trip, middle-level bosses get bigger gifts, and we get a mug cup. A colleague told me that a decade ago his wife had told him that if he brought the cup home again, he would get it in his head." Silently signed contract with Microsoft on the Office software package, on the other hand, you will boast how you are for start-ups, for up and down. For a fifth of this money, our young kids and mules are programming these things and we could have open source packages. But, of course, it will be said, openness is not free, it is true, these children will have to pay, transition requires certain problems, internal noise, also this is true, but as it is widespread for 25 years, there are even greater noises and problems. You'd kind of expect that from some government! I also agree that this sector should be moved somewhere because that ministry has too much work to do. I agree even that sport should be given to the Ministry of Culture, but this is the point for another meeting. But, of course, it's also hard to think about. I agree that we should also consider the role of Arnes, and my friends from Arnes will be, maybe now someone will say that it would be better if I didn't say that – beyond some of the resentments that people around Arnes have, they're not anymore, and so on. What the role of Arnes is now – the vice president is asleep, he cannot listen to me, he is tired. All right, all right. But of course we get it now – what? Ah, because it's nothing like that, there's no valid argument [[…]] It grieves me, let's just say that even New Slovenia somehow says they won't object, let every government do what it does. I didn't just mention this infographic - I speak well, Lyudmila, because we need a right hand for the 21st century. I didn't mention this infographic just by chance, the UKC, because you know, it's often forgotten when we talk about informatics that it's not just the National Assembly, it's not just the ministries, it's not just the municipalities. But you know, the municipality of Maribor, purely for comparison, has a budget, of course, well below 100 million euros, and then you have something that is said in Zagreb by holding, even a number of para-občina, para-state companies, institutions that, say, in Maribor rotate 300 million. If you count all of this, I'm going to say, over the thumb, we're going to come up with some 100 million euros that are rolling in the field of computer science annually from all public cash registers. There's got to be some kind of computer science, some other kind of cash register. And now we're taking this a little bit from somewhere where the pendant was, probably to some minister who's more capable of this "handle", according to the local word, the whole section of the benti, the e-mail burns me out, and all of you, so I told some of my colleagues of hackers to wait, and you know what my views are. You're a little silly to me, too. Can't you get me out of this trolling, out of this spam? And nothing, you will, of course, bless it, some people in the SD will probably vote against or will be held back and we will have these corruption risks further sealed. The humiliation of the current government, but you know, when they went to America with one big corporation, they didn't sign a contract, they came back, and they signed it here, even though this company is here, I'm not going to name it now, close its branch office in Ljubljana and transfer it to somewhere else. Let's move on. Amcham – many like to go to their breakfasts. Amcham, the American hybrid war exhibit, and the young president of the Defence Committee will not refer to anything, has a program called "young professionals", which brings additional impetus to young experts for already successful work. The organisers know that the world is standing on young people, so they say that they are the best investment. Of course, I agree. In a few years, they will be the ones who will build and run the Slovenian economy. Since 2010, the business community has been gathering the most promising young leaders and so on and so forth and this year, somehow among the five super finalists, the highest potential of such young people in 2016 was one of the ladies who I believe is successful and working and everything from the Ministry of Public Administration. Do we need a comment? Probably not. So that if you read the Constitution and the Members of the Coalition, it is a time to take seriously that article that says that you are not bound to any instructions and actually send this law to bed and to history and open a serious debate on the informationisation of public administration, state administration, local communities, a whole range of parastats. To stop making a fool of many experts who Slovenia is overpowering, but can sell, market, or even through academic cooperation abroad, they are unable at home, because unfortunately they are not from the right quotas, as it is called in Slovenian politics and also in this new composition of the coalition and government, where the majority of them have a new bag that should be filled after two years with content. In short, what's on the table here is some nicely wrapped transfer of something within our quota, so-called SMC, to someone who understands more, who understands it better, who internally within the Government has been determined that these things will go away if openly said, and on the other hand reduce the fight against corruption in this country, which has already been chosen by that three-member team by the president of the country already one way or another. That's it, beyond those little stories. That probably is the more internal SMC game if I hear from what you said to the other two coalition parties, you can't hear all these arguments in SMC; yes, I don't know what to say. Clean your ears! Now, of course, Mr. Minister will have a nice turn of events, and how is this, and how is it not, and so on, because he is a skilled speaker, I admit to you; but I apologize, Mr. Minister, I apologize, a coalition, such a pumpkin is not yet sold to my 7-year-old daughter. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you, Dr. Duck. The word is given by Dr. Vinko Gorenak, followed by Minister Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration. Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The text runs on the amendment; the amendment that we have tabled relates to reporting on this subject, but it is likely that it cannot go beyond that and should go a little wider. If I agree with Mr Trčko, and we are seriously in some other political fields, then this should be for the Minister, the Government, and probably also for the coalition some very serious sign. Why? The underlying reason is that, or when I spoke earlier, who opposed all of this, I also listened to Mr. Rabbit, and now I would ask him from the bench if he listed any other experts supporting this law. In fact, you listed one lady – I have forgotten the name and surname – who supports this law, where you found it, I don't know who it is, or who it is, you might repeat it. But I repeat what 16 experts wrote, including former ministers dealing with this area, former secretaries of state and other people who know something about this area of the information society; not only do they know something that is actually experts in this area. I didn't have another one before, because I was limited to five minutes to say everything that's in here, so I can read some of the paragraphs, though. See, these people, these 16 people who are top experts in this area and know this area, say: "The signatories of the petition against the submission of the information society to state information technology we invite you to meet on 13 July," this is today, "you are voting against the novelty of this law and thus preventing the clearly expressed intention of the proponents to support the internet." So this is what experts, ministers, secretaries of state think. Next: "The novelty threatens the autonomy of the academic and research network Arnes, which can lead to the Internet being neglected as key scientific, educational and cultural infrastructures to the networks needed by the public sector in general. In addition, it systematically establishes conflicts of interest and the management of the area in accordance with the principle of division and governance, without appropriate control mechanisms." I think some other speakers have already justified this. In fact, the system — for example, it is a typical case — but any other system that does not have adequate control mechanisms is sooner or later involved in deviations, is sooner or later ineffective, is sooner or later subject to corruption and more. Actually, that's exactly what you want, Minister. That's exactly what you want. I've said before that it's normal for every government to put things in order to think that it will rule, that it will be for the best. But, look, at the time of those fat cows, as you like to say, 2004-2008, we had, if I recall correctly, 11 ministries. You've made 16. Why? Because you shared the chairs. In the middle of the mandate to amend legislation in this way, of course, means quite a problem; the problem is because it is quite clear together. My forerunner, Dr. Duck, said you can't sell this to a seven-year-old kid. That's probably true, but you've done a number of other things. The signatories of this petition also say: "Anxiety is also a way to prepare legal changes. The novelty was prepared without any analysis, without professional consideration, in the absence of constructive dialogue and accompanied by a number of manipulations that we rejected." They further point out that the short procedure is that you did not respect the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. Minister, this is where you would answer the question. Actually, it's a 30-day public debate, you've been through it, it's just gone. And so on and so forth. The other is the regulation of corruption. However this leadership has been put forward, any problems this Commission's leadership has to prevent corruption, but it must be said, and it must be acknowledged, regardless of whether we opposed the appointment of this leadership, that some of the moves they have made and some of the information they give out are relatively clear. Of course, neither Mr Staret, the Secretary of State nor Minister Klemenčič, who "harala" – this is such a very convenient word because it is not better – on the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, also acted unlawfully. Let me remind you of the findings of the Court of Auditors — a series of laws were broken. Let me remind you of the report on the property situation of the party presidents, which resulted in the collapse of the government. This is how this Commission worked to prevent corruption. Now that you are not satisfied with the functioning of the current commission, you want to submit it to those who once did illegal work, and these are you and the minister. So, too, this is a very clear matter and agreeing with it would, of course, be very wrong. Now let me say this, look, because the series, some things I printed, because it's hard to print, but a lot of people, a bunch of experts, institutes warn that you're not doing the right thing, but you're still doing it. You guys keep going. I told the minister when you introduced yourself on the proper work body as a candidate for the minister, "Yes, ma'am, speak like a doctor." Yeah, it's true, you talk a lot, you have a lot to say, you make a lot of impression, as if it's not happening, I don't know, but what's behind it, which is what Dr. Duck was talking about, but it's a bad one, but it's a really sad story. That's what I'm gonna say at this point on my part, if it's necessary, and later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is given by Minister Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you, President, for your word. Otherwise, I have like you, Mr Gorenak, quite a fat reminder, but I know him more or less from the head, with subject and professional arguments, but I will only respond to what has been said in the introductory arguments that we are somehow trying to explain these arguments that we have. Information society and state information technology are inseparably linked. There was a lot of talk about money, about money, about money, about money. Yes, Mr. Gorenak, that's exactly what money does. I agree. The country buys around one third of the information resources in this Republic of Slovenia and about two thirds buy back the economy and others. It is said that the country is a very large customer of information services, information systems, information knowledge. That's why it's important. However, as such, the state cannot be isolated from the information society or, if it is, leads to great unrationality. Cases have been cited, and Mr Trček has also mentioned how they work in Austria if you want to work in Estonia. There are responsibilities for information society and information society in different cities, but they are not separated anywhere. In Estonia they have them at the Ministry of Economy and Telecommunications, in Austria they have them at the office of chancellor, but they are combined everywhere. In Slovenia we still separate them between two sources, and this appears to be poor, also ineffective, when we studied during the drafting of this law, how rational information infrastructures are used. We have separate capacities, which run side by side, which – one – are built by one company and the other countries, third agencies, are not shared. That, to put it bluntly, is pure stupidity and pure irrationality. Therefore, the information society and the state are not separate and we cannot separate them, but the fact is that the construction of state information systems is completely different from the general accessibility of the Internet to information services. And the fact is that the Ministry of Public Administration already in its work in many ways goes beyond what you think it should be; it is said to be a narrow focus on state information, because we are already providing e-government for all citizens, we are already providing e-governments for all companies, we are already doing certificates for all citizens in Slovenia today, we are already doing a much wider promotion today and we are already doing what Mr. Trček has pointed out to me – I will particularly respond – we are working with a number of development institutions, universities, multinationals, domestic companies and domestic associations, we are working intensively with everyone. This is significantly broader than just state-owned IT and we also believe that, last but not least, after the decision of the Prime Minister of the Government, who appointed me responsible for digitisation, which is, in the model of Western developed countries, the so-called chief digital official. With this, the President of the Government has also imposed on me a broader concern for a faster transition to a digital society, where I see a great opportunity for the whole country, but not just for the state administration; and I see it this way. As far as the confidentiality of the proposal is concerned. I think my fellow Members have already replied before me. The Law on State Administration has been amended three times directly, and there has never been a public debate. Never! Today it's called secrecy. We have been negotiating, coordinating arguments and identifying arguments among the departments for months; however, yes, within the Government. This wasn't about secrecy. And finally, we organized a consultation with the professional public on the basis of tweets. Tell me, which one of the ministers has been so open so far, he's organized a consultation on Twitter. And among other things, I'll be very direct not to be so mysterious, Mr. Ducky, as you were, I'll operate on names. Mr Caf, who was the most vocal critic of this transition, sat at this meeting and did not open his mouth, so we organised it to confront the arguments. Look, it doesn't seem to me to be some kind of constructive dialogue that we're trying for, of course. The United Left says the Member spoke in the opening address to whom chaos suits. I don't know, do you have feelings that state computer science is in chaos? I don't think so. because – I can read to you what we have done in a year and a half. I think state computer science is moving up and down. In the international space, they're watching what we've done in a year and a half, in two years, how we've concentrated information technology, how we've built one of the most modern clouds, which you often read to me, which works, which I hear is empty, and that we don't know how to manage. Let me introduce you. The state computer cloud is occupied after a good six-month 60%. We have transferred to it a complex customs system, a complete tax system, a complex system of social transfers; all of this is already operating on a state computer cloud and, last but not least, the Commission's anti-corruption applications, which are now functioning in a stable, problem-free manner and their data are also protected. That's the answer to these readings that I have to listen to and are, unfortunately, unfounded. These are eyewitnesses that have nothing to do with actual facts. As far as imprudentity is concerned, an independent regulator. Look, we have an independent regulator for telecommunications. In an independent regulator, neither the other nor the third minister may intervene because his task is to be an independent regulator. I do not know how I could subordinate myself to the regulation of this area, which, with public authority or with the aim of setting up, is entrusted to an agency specifically established for this purpose. When we are talking about arguments, professional arguments, I have not heard any other professional argument at my best than that we are doing this with a view to corruption. That's the only professional argument I've heard so far. Corruption, corruption, corruption. Please tell me one thing in which I consciously, in two years of my mandate, have in any way aroused suspicion of corruption. However, Mr Trček, I will also respond to your accusations, which I think are very much under the belt, given how we are actually trying to move forward in this area. You're saying we can't go on without designing strategies. We have two key strategies to adopt in this National Assembly, which must be put into place with great seriousness, speedily, decisively and professionally. I take over this task, believe me, not with an easy heart, because I know how very difficult these strategies are and how far behind we have been in the last ten, fifteen years, after Slovenia in the information field has already been a concept in the wider international space, what a huge backlog we have come in at this time precisely because our concern for information technology has spread because there has been no organised strategic development and therefore we have continued on all the scales very quickly, unfortunately. As far as other people's experiences are concerned, I think I said so. As far as science and profession are concerned, let me tell you, even with these dedications and day-to-day activities, I guarantee that we are working very intensively both with economic associations, with colleges with which we participate in purely concrete projects, including in preparation. I also attend intensive meetings of research institutions. Last time, I listened to the obvious, as was said again about Microsoft. Look, I'm happy to go to the IT conference, I'm happy to go to the HP days, I'm happy to go to the ZIT days at the Economic Chamber, I'm happy to go, we're working with the Jožef Stefan Institute, we're happy to work with everyone, but it's not corruption. That's exactly what you're reading to me. Honestly, professional cooperation with everyone. I do not hide anything and cooperate with everyone, and I will continue to cooperate with all those who are also willing to cooperate openly. Perhaps what concerns the opposition of these 16 signatories to this petition, which I know very well. This is 16 ministers, high-level government officials, officials in different places who have done their work in a time for which more or less, as I understand the debate, we agree here in which the state of the information society has rapidly deteriorated. I'm sorry, this is the only thing we agree on that the situation is not good that we've gone backwards in recent years. And that is why this government is looking for an answer to how to accelerate, because in this world, without an active information society, without digital transformation, without effective state information, the Internet, education, science and the economy, we will not be able to prosper as a society and I very much agree with you. We're all informed today. I agree with you very much. Today we are all informed and if this matter does not work well, then as a society we have a significantly bigger problem than the Ministry of Public Administration does if public administration applications work well or do not work well. I have to agree with Mr Gorenak, maybe he's not protecting me from immunity, but I'll be direct: yes, it's about money. This is about state money, about 100 million state-owned information technology, which we have been talking about with the centralisation project – even in this esteemed assembly – we commit ourselves to fighting that the volume of these funds will not be reduced, but that the structure of spending of these funds will change rapidly, because in 2014, when I took over the portfolio, we spent 84% of these around 100 million state-owned information technology on current maintenance and the rest on development, and at the end of 2017 I made a promise that the current maintenance of this country would cost less than 50% and everything else would go into development. And this is a major change that we want to make to this country with all these many measures that are actually working in the field of information technology. Maybe as far as America's visit is concerned. You were hinting at the donor. Please kindly, if you have any indication that I or any of my colleagues have received gifts, report me and we will take action on this matter, otherwise please do not publicly accuse me of such things, because I do not think it is appropriate. As far as the MS Office package is concerned, it was awarded on a public invitation to tender. Like all the years awarded after a public invitation to tender, on which various tenderers are fighting. As far as the code is concerned, we are implementing it intensively and we have introduced an open code mainly on server applications in our mandate. As you have already found, the open code for general use has also proved inappropriate in foreign countries. For example, the Germans had it, and they went back to licensed software, and you probably know this area very well. As far as Arnes is concerned, once again, Arnes remains under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and we do not change that. As far as the rewards of my fellow workers, which I highly appreciate, I just need to refer to. I am extremely proud of these awards, we had a colleague who was the leader of my cabinet, who received the "young professionals" award, selected — I think among the 500 candidates — after months of selection, which was extremely demanding. I'm very proud of that. I think she justified it with her work. You probably forgot to say that last year the head of computer science at our ministry was first declared out of the economy, for the first time outside the economy, was named the best head of computer science of the year, the so-called CIO of the year. We are also extremely proud of this award, and I hope that you will not attribute corrupt backgrounds to this prize either, because I have to strongly oppose it. But if you have any other evidence, please put it on the table, or else I have to protect my coworkers, who I marry extremely, who work day and night, so to speak, that they are available to me every second, and I do not allow these hard-earned awards to instill in some corrupt hints. As far as you're concerned, there's other arguments. At the consultation, the economy, science, research expressed their clear views on the concentration and transition of the DID to the Ministry of Public Administration. All of these arguments were supported, yes, but they did not sign internet petitions. That is true, but we are working with the Chamber of Commerce, working with the Institute of Joseph Stefan, who is the lead researcher in this area, working closely with Arnes, and working closely with other institutions in this area, and no one has objected to this, except a group of those signatories, 16 signatories, this petition. As far as Internet maintenance is concerned, what it says in there. The Internet, or I don't know how to support it, because the Internet consists of several components: optical fibers, interfaces, content sets, content we put on the Internet, and our communications. However, I strongly advocate this, and I have also repeatedly said that one of my core tasks for digital transformation, which I believe we will bring the most good to this country in the long term, to make all the communications that citizens, the economy and the public administration can use very widely. In doing so, of course, we are protecting that because it is necessary to protect ourselves in an appropriate way, we are not shining in cybersecurity today, and we will have to take a number of steps forward here. It is said that there is one open communication that must be available to all, and this is this digital transformation. And another area for which I also strongly advocate is that public goods become as good as possible those data that do not endanger personal interests or the protection and business interests or protection. With this, we can make one huge contribution to this society – they also call oil of the future – because with wide access to data we can also give the economy, science, research, education and public administration the basis for them to act more rationally and significantly more effectively. All I wanted was to respond to those allegations that were made. What we've done this year and a half, but I can read to you, and the last time I have to answer my questions, I'm sorry, I'm running out of time. I think that the achievements we have made at this time alone demonstrate how we work and how difficult it is to accept some general and principled hints that for all our work there is a hidden corrupt purpose. I just have to say no, and that's all I can do in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you, Minister Koprivnik. The replica, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister, I don't have much time and I'll be in a hurry. All that you have said, I know, and it seems to me according to the pillar, because they have put it on your shoulders, of course; but not enough. We discussed long-term and wide-ranging centres for social work, why they do not have uniform information technology, why there is no better control. I'm on a train with a very experienced hacker. The certificate needed a certificate. Shamastika, how to set it up. You could look at the analysis of websites, web portals, whether they are readable or not readable, when they are adaptable to those with impaired vision handicaps. You could talk about machine readability of data, you could talk about what the government likes to show, and what it hides, and you have to find it hard to find. In particular, I did not blame you for corruption, it was a quote, you turned it upside down, but we made it clear that you are not reducing the possibility of corruption by such a change or by increasing it, Mr Minister. You've got too much on your back. You're supposed to, you know, deal with what? By reforming local self-government! You should be concerned about whether we are rich enough to have a two-tier system, that we have municipalities and another story of administrative units and maybe go to a single system and save that money for cryptographic protection. If you were so serious about informatics after you were working for the government, you wouldn't have made a minister without a license for the Slovenians, it would have been an office in Mladika and would have made an IT minister who would have taken it seriously. You did, that stabbed me, we even had the Ministry of Information Society. I think we should have it and we should cover this horizontal because I have said several times that we should start thinking that the sectoral division of work that copy-paste does all these governments and slightly change; this is the story of the 20th century. I'm not one of those Slovenians who would say that Slovenia should be Switzerland. But if you go to their side – what does it say? Most countries have 15, 20 ministries, we only have seven, and they're not called that because they came from this kind of thinking. But Switzerland doesn't want to be Slovenia because I don't want blood money to be washed, Mr. Minister. Why don't we go more seriously, sometimes we had, what was it, information at government level, why don't we set it up? In fact, what's going on with this law that you want to clean up, on the one hand you're putting too much work on and indictee, the possibility that you're suddenly playing too many roles, corruption. That's the story. We all burn from work. I've been "clapping" together in June, we should be working smarter – keep your employees safe. If the German Chamber of Commerce had the same program in the United States and a young lady working on national security would win the first prize, let's say there [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u27	Your Honor, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss this item or this article. Here you go, Mr. Jože Tanko. Your word is.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. It's been two years. This time should be under the table of key reforms in many areas, but we are dealing with reconstruction or restructuring of individual offices or powers within the government today. So it's a reorganisation of the government and its services. Do you think we're in the process of dynamics that the government should have done so far? The Law on State Administration is certainly the one with which the government orders and allocates individual powers within the spheres envisaged for this purpose. If anything was done wrong in that initial layout, it may not have taken two years to determine that something else needed to be arranged so that it might work better. The idea that individual services, offices or responsibilities should be redistributed takes too long for this government. Because you are dealing with such banal matters in the middle of the mandate, instead of getting all the key things done so far, it is difficult to believe government representatives who talk about necessity, sense, integrity, efficiency, rationality and I still don't know what. None of this is on the agenda. If there was anything to do with these effects that the minister was talking about, it would already be in the explanation of the law. We expect 200, 300, 50, 7 million Euros of additional resources for some other things, but this is not written. The second point to be drawn is that the Legislative and Legal Service has written an opinion. But the opinions written by the Legislative and Legal Service are useful for the coalition only when they criticize or challenge any solution proposed by opposition parties to the legislative process. If you have read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and understand it – and I believe you understand it – then you should correct some other articles before the 7th and 7th.b. or whatever you have already put into law. We should do it from a systemic point of view, but you didn't. You voted back, I don't know what kind of judgment and instructions, all those articles that have been tabled by the amendments, and you've closed them, so they can't be amended. I must remind you that you very much like to read the opinions of the Government's Law Service or the Legal and Legislative Service in all the legislative proposals tabled by the SDS, and note the minorities that need to be properly regulated by the amendment. And you quote that, you read it to infinity, the entire SMC Group does it. On many occasions you also refer to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. I'm asking the minister, I'm asking SMC, how did you ignore this marriage? How did you ignore this marriage? Coincidence? Have you forgotten your glasses? Was it too bright and shimmering, or what was the reason for you simply to overlook it? The law does not regulate the area either systematically or comprehensively, but it is for the coalition, because it has been proposed because three SMC ministers are involved in the arrangements for these changes. And that's enough reason for the change to be quality, necessary, necessary, necessary, successful and so on. None of this will happen, there will be no major impact by the end of the term of office! Now you'll be dealing with the adoption of this law, I don't know, three months with the movement of individual powers, with a bunch of arguments, who's responsible for what, who's boss, who'd leave something else to themselves to keep a nursery somewhere and so on. At the same time, you'll be looking for the Minister of Finance. In short, the full collapse of the understanding of the state's operation and the necessity of the acts brought by the Government to the National Assembly. There is no administrative reform, no reform of public administration, no improvement in local self-government, no provincial system, no rationalisation, no I don't know, state administration and so on. In short, there are no important issues on the table, there is no tax reform, there is no social reform, there is no health reform, and today we are dealing with the movement of two or three offices between government departments and the roping of some ministers there. I would like to touch further on some of the details accompanying the incorporation of this law into the legislative procedure. The fact that a large part of the non-political public has been involved in this debate and points out violations of the procedures in the drafting of the laws is likely to be justified. It's justified. The government is committed to some process of drafting laws, and it must be available enough time for this public opinion to also be drawn up in law proposals, and it must then be addressed in some way. Minister Klemenčič, who was once the chief senator of the KPK and Mr Stare's right-wing professional term, once wrote an opinion or even two opinions from the Commission to prevent corruption, which touched on exclusive procedures, reduced and urgent procedures, in the drafting of laws. Two opinions exist and this was the case with regard to the mandate of the Janša government, which, in terms of accessibility, in terms of public opinion, in the light of comments and so on, by proposing some laws after a short or urgent procedure, violated all democratic demands. All democratic postulates. You probably know this opinion, or you know these two opinions, because I've mentioned them many times, and I've quoted them, and I can bring them to you now. Mr Stare must have forgotten or forgotten about him, Mr Klemenčič. Now that Mr Klemenčič is the Minister of this Government, when he is the Minister of this Government, I have not detected any public statement or conduct that would refer to the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption from the time he led and concerning the procedures for drafting laws and proposed laws in the National Assembly. Not once. Now that he is part of the executive branch, these rules no longer apply to him, they apply to others. Just like in all the other areas that some have talked about. The Minister may have revoked decisions in the courts for a violation of human rights, whether it be the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court, having a negative opinion of the Court of Auditors for his work, he is still an easy minister. No ethical norm, no legal norm, no rule of sin required of others shall apply to it and shall not apply to its chairman, Prime Minister Mir Cerar. Mr Stare knows the details of what was going on at the time on the Anti-Corruption Commission, he certainly knows them because he was personally involved in a number of things, and he also knows that probably what the current Anti-Corruption Commission found and wrote, did not hold, it was arranged, it was complicated – but nothing to anyone. Amendments to the Law on State Administration are now being made in the field, including in the field, not only of this information or information, but also of those where the powers of some kind of control over corruption are transferred, including this. And once again, there is some way that Mr Klemenčič takes this area within the government, for which it is clear, through a series of findings of the inspection of the Court of Auditors, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, that he has violated laws and human rights, and now, once again, with this amendment of the Law on State Administration, he acquires an area for which, on human and ethical grounds, he is unable to manage in some fair manner. Also the issue of this recruitment from the Commission to prevent corruption to the Ministry of Justice, the question of if it is carried out in accordance with rules and calls and tendering procedures in the manner required of others. The question whether this is in line with the employment plan. The changes to laws coming to the National Assembly in this area are also non-systematic and illegal. Remember that law that regulates the area of systematic investigations of major projects that are stuck in the legislative process due to unconstitutional solutions. You're not able to process it and rehabilitate it, but you're keeping it in the legislative process instead of removing it and bringing it back. The Minister-general and other representatives of the Government, when preparing laws, knowingly misuses procedures and solutions in the management of the department, is, by definition, written by the Senate of Klemenčič's Anti-Corruption Commission, and Mr Stare was a member, the definition of systemic corruption, since any creation of conditions under this definition – this is an introduction to the Commission's 2010 annual report on anti-corruption, so you can read it – this is the definition of systemic corruption. Exclusion of the public, the deliberate exclusion of rules, standards, breaches of constitutional provisions, the establishment of conditions, in order for someone to come in another way or in a privileged way to certain projects or advantages, is the definition of systemic corruption. After this debate you have said here, you will find it difficult to say that this is not the case because it is procedurally carried out, in substance, it is an incomplete solution if I take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, but the articles are closed and so on. In short, they leave gray foxes, consciously. The recommendations or the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service to individual solutions, such as Article 3, Article 5, Article 9, have not been taken into account. This is not taken into account in what you voted in the National Assembly. If this is how you decided to enforce the laws, this law through the legislative procedure, you have been consciously working in line with the definition of systemic corruption that Mr Klemenčič advocated in the 2010 annual report. That's his record, then he was the head and head of the KPK Senate and he wrote it. Read it to yourself, and Mr. Secretary can read it, and he'll tell you whether it's true or not. My opinion is based on the documentation I have at my disposal to do so. As for our amendment, however, I think that this proposal should in some way take into account that at least some of the grey fox holes you have made are being repaired. For if you have not written anything in the bill about the financial consequences, but you have turned it into some general standard, then it is most normal that after one year, if you continue to be this government, you should at least come up with some report on the effects of changes to this law. However, if the coalition opposes this, reporting on the impact of the novel on the situation, then something is even more wrong in this country. You're even consciously concealing the results that should be expected. We are changing the law in order to have some positive effects in some area. The law probably does not change, so that something will happen, and someone will hide somewhere, not even allowing them to report correctly to the National Assembly, so that we do not hide behind these prize flossules. Some of these awards have been awarded in the past. She received one, say, from the 2004-2008 term of office of Janša, which was sought by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, who inherited the resort and went to New York for a prize. Okay, that's what happened, but that's not what we're talking about. Perhaps more important are the rewards that we give to ourselves, as in what area, because of the rapid loss of lauvreates, and someone is quickly found to give him something. So I suggest you support this amendment that we tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Lord Joseph Horvath, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Those who swear on parliamentary democracy, those who understand that the National Assembly is, in fact, the supervisor of the Government, of the work of the Government, will, of course, support this amendment. I think this should also be in the interests of the minister. We talk little, really little about at least digital society, about digital economy, very little talk, almost nothing. There is sometimes a minute on a committee, perhaps most on the Committee on European Union Affairs. This would be an opportunity for you, Mr Minister, to come in a year's time — frankly, I want you personally before this assembly or at least before your mother's working body and report on your achievements. This is the promotion of the government, the promotion of the coalition. However, if you say so now, we do not want to report, then in fact Parliament, those who will vote against, renounce the supervisory function over the work of the Government and have this supervisory function of the National Assembly. As far as the New Slovenia Group is concerned, of course we will support this amendment because it is necessary. We will also be very interested in what is going to happen in the area of corruption, or better said, the fight against corruption. In a way, it seems fortunate to have now received the Minister of Justice, the former first KPK man to gain more power, I would say, to fight corruption. Again and again, I recall that assessment of the situation, signed by Mr Klemenčič, has the date of March 2013, where on the 51st page of this report it begins to write and speak and justify that in Slovenian banks it is systemic corruption. Moreover, in the previous mandate, the same Mr Klemenčič said that the boys in Tržaška on vampires had agreed on some credit transactions in state banks. It's understandable here that Mr. Klemenčič knows these boys. He knows names and surnames — then, by word of mouth! This could be very effective. But as for the information society, of course, I'm kind of interested in this. For almost a quarter of a century, I worked in IT. I'm kind of afraid that there will be a subjugation of the information society and, even if you want, a digitisation of the economy to make it subject to state information. That's what I'm afraid of. I know that Mr. Minister is a master of computer science, that this is not just his hobby, that he has a lot of knowledge here. Of course, the question arises and we say, "Yes, good morning." After two years of the election, we're going here for just one major reconstruction. Okay. If now, for example, the National Assembly or coalition does not support this, the government will always be able to say that we would work effectively, but the National Assembly has not allowed us to do so. Therefore, it is necessary for the Government to come with a report on its achievements, its objectives for one year ago and present this to the National Assembly. As for the Minister's statement that e-Informatics is somehow accessible or eGovernment, I did not understand precisely, for all citizens – it will not hold. It won't hold. We simply do not have the internet, which you have defined very well, in every part of this country, in every village of this country, where citizens as valuable as in the centre of Ljubljana live. You and I both know if the app isn't mobile today, it means if you can't "laupulate" it, like you say, so run on this box, then you didn't do anything. It still pains me today that a minister in earlier times, Mr Golobič writes, has not actually allowed the consortium of six porous or better Premur municipalities to build a broadband network. It's not your fault, but this network isn't built today and I invite you, Mr. Minister, to go to Goričko and we'll talk over these boxes. We're going to have problems, and we're going to be chasing some coordinates when the signal is at least enough so we can hear from each other for a while. Not to mention mobile apps. I speak many times – especially on the European Union committee, when we consider various regulations, directives or starting points for various European Union Competitiveness Council meetings and so on and so forth, and I say and ask when and how we will implement the Digital Agenda for Europe in Slovenia. I'm saying, and I'm increasingly convinced that whoever doesn't get digital, that's not gonna happen. They won't! This is an extremely important area which, I hope to say, is not understood by most of this high assembly. Perhaps we would like to ask ourselves why the Germans were trying to bring together a digital society and a digital economy in this composition of the European Commission. Why did they put their Commissioner Günther Oettinger there? That's why, that's my answer, you're giving it to yourself because it's the most important area. The most important thing. In Bundestag you will find a special committee, perhaps a subcommittee dealing with digital society and digital economy. Look, the business world is becoming one big digital battlefield and there is no mercy in the battlefield. No mercy. The trade of the third millennium is different than trade in my childhood, and therefore business models are completely different because this digital technology is available. If we ask ourselves where this destructive force of digital power is actually coming from, and if we ask ourselves what it is about digital Darwinism, how long it will take, I think it will last forever, unless someone shuts down the Internet. Then this Darwinism will end. Look, after the behavior of users, it's changed radically in recent years. In Central, Eastern Europe already 83% of users are looking for information on virtually anything exclusively on the Internet, and we will all do it soon. Here, of course, I am also thinking of e-democracy. Is democracy allowed for everyone in the Republic of Slovenia? Yeah. Is e-democracy an integral part of democracy? Yes, it is. Does everyone have the possibility of using e-democracy? They don't. Do you know what I'm getting at? I aim to record in the Constitution, the right to the internet. Why not? Because if I don't have Internet access, if I don't have Internet access, I don't have the right to all the components of democracy. That's also the question on the table. Maybe someone's laughing today, and tomorrow they'll confirm it to me. However, I must commend the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which issued a public call for candidates for digital technology. The mandate of the previous government appointed in 2012 expired two months ago. I have a feeling that this government doesn't want to have this digital messenger and it's kind of written down in the Digital Agenda for Europe and in a government decision that has the date of May 2012. Our government has adopted this decision and I wish the Ministry a happy hand to truly choose the right person, I hope not on the political card. When Mr Barroso, the former head of the European Commission, represented the Digital Agenda for Europe, I made extrapolation and found that we would need them by the end of this year. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it is true, Mr Koprivnikar, the Minister of Public Administration, who has the skills to perform and the skills of what he has to say and what would be good to hear. If I had listened to you for the first time, perhaps if this was hearing, I would have said, but here there will be some important steps and movements and certainly some measures will make sense to support. But if I look back a little bit, I just can't agree with that. Why? In fact, the fact is that you really spoke around the importance of computer science, digitization and everything else when it was hearing, and at that point it seems to me that it would be more important to define such things or to agree on what is necessary for you to be able to do things smoothly. These changes could also be introduced if this was really the most important thing that bothered this development. However, given your knowledge and abilities, I believe that we could be effective without this interference in the Law on State Administration. I believe this and somehow it gives me no peace that we are not actually changing this part because of the transfer of the so-called information society under your department, but because of that other transfer when we are talking about the KPK, because this is how we minimize some debate. Why, quite, Mr Koprivnik, I can't believe you. Also because we listened to you when you lowered the average of the congregations, how you would help with another law, how you would help the congregations, and how much you would save from those measures, that was not the case. And even today this average is the same as it is, and the congregations are still being tormented today. I also do not believe you because from the mouth of your party colleagues, including the wider coalitions, we often listen when we table our own various laws, the various amendments, how our actions are non-systemic, that is fine, but that is not the case, because the issue is non-systematic, is not comprehensive and we will prepare in full. This is not a measure. This measure is not, but today it has your support. You've also talked about how many systems work very well. Let me tell you that the last time I was really negative was because I practically call Gurs every year for certain information, and for the first time ever, it happened to me that my employee told me that I couldn't give you data because we're processing data. It's unacceptable to me. You really need some information, but you don't get it because some data is being processed in the system -- I don't know, one pad or something, I didn't ask. Of course, this lady is nothing to blame, but I want to say that everything is not so beautiful and not all the gold that shines or comes in conjunction with nice words. I am also surprised, the well-respected coalition, how you support this non-systemic measure, is incomplete, but yesterday, for example, in the Succession Act, you are not following the opinion of your minister, including the Vice-President of the Government. In fact, the minister told you, when he was in another position, that social assistance should be paid unconditionally if someone was entitled to it, or the banks could start lending mortgages. I talked about it yesterday, and you either denied it or you didn't support it. That's your minister's opinion. We're gonna have to think about what's right and what's wrong. Why I believe that it is not essential to change this law because of the transfer of the information society, because I believe that the Minister is able to take his own course of action without taking certain measures, but that the reason is elsewhere is the words of the President of the PKK: The shoes of my predecessors are infected with the fungi of illegality. And look at the fragment, and now it has to be under these infected fungi. Infected, respectable Matić, next time you can be in there listening to the whole debate. In short, when someone says that, and then they catch him, he has to go under the cover of those he seems to suspect are something very wrong, and I'm really asking you where it's going. I'm really running out of time, but that's enough. Where's it going, sir?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss this. Mr. Zajc, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, we're talking about the amendment, but we're talking about it later, given that almost no one's touched it. In fact, this amendment was meant to have some kind of debate. We already know in advance that this doesn't belong to the law, and I'll talk about it later. The experts Dr. Gorenak mentioned. Yes, we also invited them to our parliamentary group because we wanted to hear what their arguments were, and the arguments were the ones the Minister had already said. So it's a warning against corruption. I think that these arguments have already been very well denied by the Minister in his debate. Then the second argument why we should not adopt this law is that it follows a reduced procedure. All governments have done it in short or even after emergency, and so has your government. This law is monitored in this way because it is an internal organisation of the government. But look at what they have highlighted as one major error, one point that has caused us to have stagnation in the information society for 10 years or more, but it is that we have abolished the Ministry of Information Society or you have abolished it, your government has abolished it, despite the fact that the experts at the time opposed it, but at the time it did not seem important to you, it seems important to you now that we are moving the Directorate from one ministry to another. However, when you shut down the entire ministry, which was horizontally monitoring the information society and was responsible for the development of the information society, and then there was no problem, you did not listen to them, following a reduced procedure. At the time, however, today we are moving one department – everything is wrong, of course, these experts are mentioned, then you did not listen to them, so they also pointed out that it was one of the major mistakes. As far as the law enforcement procedure is concerned. We have taken some of their comments into account with the amendments. To others, the Ministry provided additional clarifications. This is not to say that we have failed to heed them or that we have not heard them. Now we're going to this amendment of yours. As I mentioned earlier, the amendment – I think we are all aware here that he was put in because we now have this debate about everything, about the Marble, and I don't know who else, that we're going to fall apart in one year or sooner or later, what we're listening to at every point, "there will be no more of you, then you won't be..." That's why we have it. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, yeah, that's why you put it in so you could say that, but you didn't say anything about the amendment. Why didn't you say anything about the amendment because we all know it doesn't belong to marriage? We know that, by law, it is reported annually on the functioning of organs, such as the police, the KPK, the Ombudsman, but what you want us to put into law, that the Government comes to report after one year on what has happened in this area, and that is not the case. We have other instruments of parliamentary control that you very well use and know, that we all know, that are parliamentary issues, those are the references of the parent working bodies. You're just gonna call a meeting in a year and we're gonna talk about it, but it's not for marriage. For this reason, we will not support this amendment, but we are aware of why it was tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Minister Koprivnikar, would you like a word? The word is given by the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members! Let me respond briefly only to the dilemmas or themes that have been said. The unification of information systems of social work centres is one of the things in the plan, while the allocation of rights exercised by the centres is one of the more successful projects, also rewarded in the past, in which the 54 bases used in the background are linked before social rights are granted to someone, one of the exemplary projects. Certificates, new, significantly simpler to make e-democracy easier, will be published by the end of September, all confidence services are ready for new ones. As far as eGovernment websites are concerned, they are fully prepared for people with special needs, we have cooperated with associations and societies and they are a sample example of how such websites must be prepared for people with special needs. And similarly, we will continue with all the other portals that we continue. Mrs Trček has been very concerned about my ability to care for all the areas that I am actually covering. Let me point out that we are just concluding a local self-government strategy, which addresses as one of the key points also the question of how to implement and actually get to the area of regionalisation, and also with these areas, I hope that, with the exact same meaning as with other jobs, I hope that I can prove it with the facts as well. Regarding the horizontality of the Ministry, the CVI was mentioned. We had a government information centre, which was a government service, and then we had the Ministry of Information Society, and now we have the Ministry of Public Administration, which deals with this area. But every time we talk about controlling this area in a developmental sense, we need to know that we are making progress when the management of information technology can be centralised, and we are going back when it breaks down into some uncontrolled systems. Mr. Tanko has talked a lot about the efficiency of the government. I am happy to convey to you, for my area, that I will not take here time to take what we have done in particular in our area. Last but not least, we also publish on the websites, on the government's pages, the media is, unfortunately, less interested in how much we have actually done in these years to remove administrative barriers, how many laws have been amended, how many new services have been introduced for citizens, and these effects are measured in dozens and even hundreds of millions of euros in money if you want. We are so pleased to present all the successes we have already achieved. As far as the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is concerned, the fellow Member has already said, but we have responded to this opinion, I think we have responded appropriately, explained it, and also coordinated the legal solution in cooperation with our colleagues in the National Assembly. As far as the amendment is concerned, I'd say a more personal view of this, maybe not too legal. The supervisory role of the National Assembly is absolutely undeniable. We cannot say that we will now write in every law that the executive branch of power must report what it has done. The National Assembly can call at any time upon request and we are obliged to report, and we will be happy to do so. Even in this spirit, to say what is in the field – as you said, Mr Horvath – is digitisation done, because I have to agree with you here. In the field of digital transformation, we pay very little attention in this country. We are still looking at this area as something that we will decide whether or not we will go into it. That's a fact. We are living in a digital world today. And unless we are regulated, safe, concentrated, controlled by information resources, there will be no development of democracy, no development of the economy, no development of civil society. We must go into this digitisation because the whole world is around us, including our society, digitised; we often still face opinions that we can make decisions about it. Digital Darwinism was mentioned. The point of Darwinism is to win the fastest-adapted. And we need to adapt to the digital environment, but we can't decide whether or not we're going to do this. If we do not fully digitise all our communications, in many areas we are excellent, in many areas we are terribly lagging behind, then we will not be competitive. It's quite simple. We won't be competitive. We won't be able to operate abroad if we don't have unified communications networks. And when you talk about accessibility, it is, of course, crucial and this is one of the basic content of the information society and the digitisation of broadband networks. We had some fun and looked at what had been done in the past. We've come up with an interesting calculation. From a previous financial perspective, a lot of money has been invested in expanding broadband access across Slovenia. And what I initially said about the irrational approach to it, we calculated that the price of one connection was about 15,000 euros, but why?Oh, my God! Since telecoms build one network, the state builds other networks, local communities build a third network, Slovenian railways have their own network and so on. And right now we have broadband networks in Slovenia more than enough, not networks, capacity. But if we connect them, then we can be one of the best-equipped countries. But they need to be linked, so coordination is essential. Today in Slovenia we have the capacity of broadband networks completely enough, I say, but they are completely unrelated and therefore we cannot use them. And this is one of the main tasks that we must do in this area. And Mr Ettinger, who is leading this on the European Commission, I hope to be able to say in a short time that he will come forward in Slovenia and he will also give some reflection on what we are actually doing, because I think we can set an example in certain areas within the European Union; as you have called him, the digital battlefield. But we have to look at this digital battlefield from different sides. I will use this minute to tell you that we are aware that the digital field is a real battlefield, even in a security sense; and this very lively battlefield. That the digital field is an important battlefield in economic terms and that digitisation is an important source, as you have also rightly said, of new business models, the so-called shared economy. And those countries that will use this to jump into these business models with state support will also be winners in the economic battlefield. And that's why it's so important that this area is organised. We develop, we accelerate and we rationally use the resources we have. And let me just finish with the financial implications. Both key financial transfers are not affected by the transfer itself. I've made a commitment myself since the very beginning of my life, so I won't be making any more investments in information technology. For once, I was talking about state intelligence. The same is true of what we have at our disposal in the new financial perspective for the information society and broadband networks. The money is as much as it is, because of this transformation there will be nothing more and nothing less, I hope. However, I hope that it will be used more rationally. This is the only consequence that could be identified as a financial consequence in order to make these funds available to us from our own resources, from our current operations and from European funds significantly greater than they were in the past. That is why I will also be extremely active and open to all who will be ready for constructive dialogue, and very much listening to every professional opinion. However, in the area for which I am responsible, I must take the right to have my opinion on these opinions in the final stage. It is crystal clear to me that this also gives me absolute responsibility for all my decisions. That's why I will always defend them. I will also make a mistake, but in some way we will move the train forward, only if we start making a substantial decision faster, we should invest more significantly and work more closely; then we can also say that we are some regulated information society. From the point of view of the country's performance index, which was also one of its colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, after the last analysis of the index of this Swiss Institute, we have advanced by 10 cities. Most of the individual indices we have just made progress on the country's efficiency, but if it still sounds so strange, but this index is measured according to precisely defined criteria; so we believe that we are also showing some successes here at such a more decked level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Darko Stare, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! Since there were no compelling arguments that the proposed solution of the Government to place the area of systemic limitation of corruption on justice would not ensure a more effective regulation of this area at systemic level, I have not so far advertised in the debate. However, I very much liked the debate by Mr Zajc, who was very thorough and briefly informed about how the debate took place without arguments. The subject of the debate was the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to include mandatory communication in the law. The fact is, as it has been said, that we have the mode of control that we all want in the system, I, as part of the executive branch of power, want the control of the parliamentary authority, because I know that for a long and even short time this can contribute significantly to the greater quality, the efficiency of the work of the whole country, the system in which we all live. But to get back to the point. I would understand if the arguments for this proposal were added value in the context of why the existing instruments — parliamentary issues, a reference by the competent committee, mandatory annual reports by the competent authorities in the case that is dealt with by the KPK — are not sufficient and should be added in this case. That's not what this was about. There were talks about completely different things that had nothing to do with this point. It is the same with regard to discussions on the proposed placement or change of responsibilities of the ministries. It is essentially a systemic measure and one of the key tasks of the Government is to prepare laws and regulations, which do not imply the enforcement and application of these laws; it has been reported that Minister Klemenčič or other ministers who were previously in other roles have misappliced the law. In short, it is an organisation that by definition requires a more effective rounding up of work in an area of expertise. And since the work and responsibility of the Ministry of Justice within the Government have already been very clearly defined by the existing, current law and all the previous ones, it has been very clearly defined to care for the organisation and status issues of the judicial authorities – from the courts, the Constitutional Court, the prosecution, the judiciary – and, according to the content, the work of the PSC is very linked and also in terms of synergies depends on the cooperation and effectiveness of this comprehensive system. And in this context, a solution is also proposed because the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which is systematic, contains organisational, procedural, statusal and also penal provisions. All of this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice for all other judicial areas or judicial bodies. We are confident, and I am also pleased at the position of Member Horvath, who believes that this accommodation will contribute to even more effective systemic measures. One of the basic systemic measures is legislation, which does not mean implementation and application of legislation. Therefore, this fear of abuse of this authority is absolutely unnecessary, not justified, nor is it systematically possible. This seemed important to me that this concern would not remain in the air, because there is no argument, no substrate to make it even possible. This consideration of an alleged or possible non-constitutional system regime is also inconclusive. The main difference is in other areas where we have independent inspection bodies, which are also subject to administrative supervision by the ministries; in this case, it does not apply because the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is an independent body. It is not an independent body within the department and no ministry or government controls it in this context. It is only the preparation of systemic measures, one of these systemic measures is the law. This concern and fear is too great. However, since this is now a rounded area, we are confident and believe that this systemic part of the country's positive commitment can be more effectively realized in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Your Honor, I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss the 9th Article and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on burial and burial activities in another defense. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u40	Dear Presidents, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities, which completely renews the existing and at the same time obsolete legislation of 1984. The content of the proposal takes into account the actual situation in Slovenia and follows the European guidelines. However, the new legal solutions are based on the government’s starting points, which, inter alia, provide that the burial activity remains the responsibility of the municipalities and that the funeral activity is carried out, apart from the provision of a 24-hour on-call service, which remains a compulsory municipal economic service, on the market. The draft law lays down uniform conditions for the conduct of funeral activities and directs the uniform regulation of burial activities at local level. The regulations will, however, establish a methodology for the pricing of the 24-hour on-call service and minimum technical standards and standards. A funeral operator may be any legal or natural person who fulfils the conditions; and a public legal and natural person who has obtained permission to carry out a funeral activity issued by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. However, the exception may be an operator who performs only a 24-hour on-call service as it is regulated in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Economic Public Services. The bill follows the fundamental principles of providing piette, protecting health, free choice of burial sites, free choice of funeral service providers and equal treatment of all service providers, including stonemakers and gardeners. At the same time, the proposal lays down clear powers of control over the implementation of the law and the compliance of local regulations issued under this law. As I have already pointed out, the existing Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities and on the Regulation of Cemetery was adopted in previous social regulations and therefore individual solutions in the existing law no longer meet the needs of today's legal and factual environment. Inadequate and mostly outdated legislation has led to different interpretations of the provisions in this law. This, however, led to or led to various arrangements for burial and burial activities in various local communities. This is also noted by the Court of Auditors in its November audit report. From 2009 to 2012, only 55 municipalities identified burial and funeral activities as compulsory economic public service in their decrees. It is also clear from the analysis of the forms of funeral and funeral activities that funeral and funeral activities in 94 municipalities were carried out at least occasionally as a market activity. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has prepared a proposal for a law on funeral and burial activities that will eliminate obsolete legislation and those problems in practice. In all of this, however, European guidelines are also being sought. Let me stress that the harmonisation of the bill has been taking place since last October. The government has already decided, when adopting the concept of the bill, that a compromise is needed and the government has proposed that the funeral activity be carried out on the market; of course, taking into account the conditions for the conduct of activities. The exception, however, is the provision of a 24-hour on-call service, which remains a compulsory economic public service. It is extremely important that these services are provided in a sustainable and smooth manner. In addition, it prevents potential unwitting behaviour of funeral operators. Dear Members and honourable Members, the proposal for a law enjoys the necessary professional support despite the principled conceptual reservations, and we propose that it be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Minister Restoration. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u42	Chairman, Minister. Well, hello to all your colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 17th session. 5. 2016 and 19th sessions 29. 6. 2016 as a parent working body treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law were tabled: NSI Group, SMC Group, Desus and SD. With regard to the amendments tabled, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that despite the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, the service still has some comments, namely Articles 11, 14, 19 and 23. The representatives of the Council of State explained that the State Council does not support the bill, while the Commission of the State Council for Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supports it. The Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development as an interested working body does not support it. The representative of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia reiterated that the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia oppose the proposed law. The representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia warned that the proposed solutions for spilling profits to the private will have an impact on the rise in the prices of services and on the deterioration of the condition of the cemetery. However, the representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which supports the law, presented in more detail the comments made by the Chamber on the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee objected to the proposed law because they felt that the opinion of the municipalities and their associations, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and other stakeholders was not sufficiently taken into account. Some members felt that the proposed solutions were in the direction of limiting competition; however, the possible negative financial and other consequences of the proposed solutions for municipal budgets and consumers themselves were also noted. On the contrary, other members and members felt that the proposal for a law was good and necessary and the proposed concept of regulation was an appropriate balance between the concept of full liberalisation of funeral and burial services and the concepts of the implementation of activities as an economic public service. They stressed, however, that the need to amend legislation also stems from the Court of Auditors' report and that a change is also necessary in terms of competition protection. The discussion also focused on the issue of 24-hour duty arrangements. The Committee considered amendments from SMC, Desus and NSI. Finally, the Committee voted on and adopted all the draft articles of the law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. The amended bill is an integral part of the report of the committee found in our UDIS system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Members of the United Left, on its behalf Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President, and a nice greeting to everyone! The area of funeral and burial activities certainly needs regulation and regulation, but certainly not the way the proposed Funeral and Funeral Activities Act does. The concept of the law is wrong; the liberalisation of funeral services will not have positive effects except for the companies already operating this activity. This law cannot be understood in any other way than that the Government of Mir Cerar is pursuing the interests of the business lobby or is blindly convinced of the almighty free market. Probably both. In the United Left, we oppose the proposal of the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities. The Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities and the Regulation of Cemetery, which governs this area, has been in force since 1984. Funeral and burial activities were defined as community activities of particular social importance. A later restaurant of capitalism, however, brought a system of economic public services. Despite the change in the system, it was clear – public interest is in the field of funeral activities and in the cemetery area in the first place. The main problem with this law is that it commercialises funeral services, except for the provision of 24-hour duty. Logically, the law must contain a lot of regulation as it is a sensitive activity. The amendments have abolished certain minimum amendments, otherwise the practices of the Wild West could be expected in the area of funeral services. When family members face death, do not look at the cost and price, in this case money is also secondary to those in a difficult financial position. However, money is certainly not of secondary importance to operators. Public interest should be put before private interests or lobbying. It's not just about the fifth to the deceased, it's about the relationship to the relatives, it's about the whole community whose member was the deceased. At the same time, public interest also stems from the fact that the funeral is an extremely high cost and for many it means deepening social distress. At the same time, the bill is also controversial in terms of interference with the jurisdiction of local self-government. The reasons for the Ministry and the coalition's attempts to defend change do not justify conceptual changes in the treatment of the dead, which makes such an arrangement legal and systemic and also constitutionally controversial and, above all, socially harmful. In the United Left, we cannot therefore support the proposal for a law on funeral and burial activities. The concept of law is simply wrong; public interest in this area should be very clear. But the government serves only the interests of business lobbying through liberalisation; the dead and the emotions of those close to it at the loss should by no means be used to forge private profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u45	The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! Since the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities and on the Regulation of Cemetery was adopted in 1984 in previous social regulations, the adoption of a new law based on different social laws is necessary. This is an area requiring a broad consensus of all stakeholders, taking into account local customs and the principle of pieta to the deceased and their relatives. Despite the fact that in Novi Slovenija we adhere to the proposal that part of the funeral activity be left to the market and that the burial activity remains a municipal public service, we oppose the law. One reason is the provision of a 24-hour on-call service, which is carried out as a compulsory municipal economic service and covers every transport from the place of death to the cooling facilities of the public service provider or health institution. They cannot decide on this transport or choose the operator; they are only the payers of this transport. Therefore, we should have a choice as to who and how this transport will be carried out. For the performer who carries out the first transport often performs all other funeral services and thus performs a purely monopolistic activity. As a compulsory economic public service, the 24-hour service should only be provided for intervention services from the place of death, i.e. in the event of accidents and sudden death. Another reason is the disregard for the will of the dead and their relatives on the way of the last celebration. Even though the government, as one of the key principles of the law, cites the fifth to the deceased, it does not want the government to follow the unwritten human rule that it is necessary to respect their last will, especially as regards burial or the way in which they are celebrated. Therefore, the purpose of the right to a piette is also to protect the deceased’s personality, dignity, and desire that his decisions made during the lifetime of life be respected even after his death. And if the deceased wants the farewell to be done in his home, at his home, which represented life’s milestones, from birth to death, his will must be respected. In particular, in a rural area where homes and households still have a different meaning than in cities, different local customs still exist, where the city has a special reputation for the deceased. The Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities and on the Regulation of Cemetery provides that the way of burial and the funeral ceremony shall be carried out in accordance with the will of the deceased. It also decrees that the dead are normally kept in a deathbed, except at home; even though there is a mortuary tower prescribed at the cemetery. Thus, the law in force respects the last will of the deceased, and this law in the previous regime respects the will of the deceased. Respect for this human tradition, which is not only rooted in Slovenia, means respect for their pieta, which is no longer known by the proposal for a new law that we are adopting today, since it does not allow the deceased to lie at home if there is a deathbed at the cemetery. Not even in this case if the deceased died at home and his family took care of him at home. We Christian Democrats are advocates of the personal right to mental integrity, which is protected by the Slovenian Constitution. That is why the will of the deceased to bury us is the only argument in deciding how to bury us. The bill is also opposed by all representative associations of local communities – the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Union of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and even the ZDUS. Otherwise, for entirely different reasons, because they fear that the free market in the execution of funeral activities will have the very negative consequences, in particular price increases. This is certainly not the case, since already a large number of municipalities leave this service to private people who do the same good as they do in the context of the economic public service, if not better. Only effective control is important in this regard. Members of New Slovenia We will not support the proposal of the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u47	Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u48	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a proposal for a law drawn up by the Government, which advocates the rule of law. However, we are increasingly seeing a new image of the rule of law, so-called fluid law, creeping out of our hands. With a creative explanation of the rules, the Government advocates, on the one hand, what we are told by the Legislative and Legal Service, what civil society and everyone else are telling us, how to respect the law. On the other hand, this is an entirely different type of behavior. Let me just point out a few of the most obvious things. That the law is not in line with other legislation, we are warned by the Legislative and Legal Service, many consequences at the local level. Who is opposed to the proposal? Community of Slovene municipalities, Association of Slovene municipalities, Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, State Council has expressed its negative opinion, Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has pointed out the disagreement. Not to mention the financial consequences that are not defined in the law; and these are still important for this bill, because they will affect the budgets of the municipalities. Additional obligations are imposed on the municipalities and there is no definition of how and how this will be financed. The territorial specificity of the congregations is not taken into account, which is still important for a small Slovenia, since the congregation is approaching the man; and this is the point where the state builds its image toward the people. We can also highlight specific cases such as the first emergency transport, 24-hour service – in small municipalities it will be a problem to do so. The Government's decision was to settle matters and enable market activity. From all of this, we can see that we are witnessing a new fluid legal state that runs out of hand and enables people to exercise their will through a creative interpretation of the law to those in power. This is certainly in stark contrast with the interests of the congregations and the tasks that the congregations must carry out. Of course, the law is completely non-systematic and inconsistent with other legislation. The most important thing is that we are not aware of the financial consequences at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u50	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The area of funeral and burial activities today is governed by the applicable Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities and on the Regulation of Cemetery, which was published in the Official Journal of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia in 1984 and has not been substantially amended since then. This activity has been defined as a municipal activity of special social importance carried out by the municipal organisations of the joint work by the funeral and funeral activities. With the implementation of the Economic Public Services Act in 1993, the system of activities of particular social importance has been replaced by the system of economic public services. Notwithstanding these provisions, a different situation has still been established in practice. In 2014, the Court of Auditors found the following in its audit report: that from 2009 to 2012, in 30 municipalities, burial and funeral activities were fully marketed. In 35 municipalities, funeral and/or funeral activities or at least part of activities were carried out on a market basis; in 29 municipalities where funeral and funeral activities were officially carried out in a certain form of economic public service or in combination with other forms, citizens could choose any undertaker of funeral and funeral activities on the market. In total, in 94 municipalities funeral and funeral activities were carried out at least occasionally as a market activity. The Court of Auditors therefore recommended to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology that it consider the possibility of modifying the existing arrangements for funeral and funeral activities in such a way that burial and/or funeral activities or at least part of one or more activities can be carried out on a market basis. In addition, to identify the basic or urgent costs of funerals, which include basic funeral services and basic funeral equipment. The bill that we are considering today follows fully the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Funeral activities include the provision of a 24-hour on-call service, which is a compulsory municipal economic service, and services provided on the market; the transport of a deceased not provided by a 24-hour service, the preparation and cremation of the deceased, and the preparation and execution of the funeral. However, burial activities cover the management and management of burial sites and are provided by the municipality, which can also empower concessionaires to perform certain management tasks. The bill also follows the Court of Auditors’ recommendations on the definition of the basic funeral, its scope, standards and standards for the basic funeral and the payment of the basic funeral, which must not exceed the level of the funeral and the post-mortality, taking into account the social aspect, in addition to the liberal aspect of the conduct of funeral activities on the market. Thus we prove that we do not believe and even less believe in the free hand of the market. The key principles taken into account in the proposal for a law are ensuring respect for and a piette for the deceased or the deceased and their relatives, protecting health and respecting health and sanitation regulations, free choice of burial sites or burial sites, free choice of funeral service providers, equal treatment of funeral service providers, free movement of services in the internal market of the European Union and effective control. In particular, it should be pointed out that the definition of funeral activity as a market activity for municipal public undertakings does not prohibit the carrying out of funeral activities under conditions and in the manner laid down in the proposal of the law; and, of course, in competitive conditions on the market, where the potential profit created under the law can still be earmarked for the conduct of burial activities. For all of this we will support the proposal for a law on funeral and burial activities in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Funeral and Funeral Activities Act systematically regulates a new approach to funeral and burial activities, since, as my predecessors said today, the 32-year-old 1984 law is obsolete and some of its solutions no longer fit. What's the point of what's happened in the last 32 years, colleagues and colleagues? In fact, it's changed, you could say, the culture of dying. It has changed very comprehensively, and we also have new forms of funerals; of course, the law, as I will say below, unfortunately does not follow the sole fifth of the deceased, his last wish, as a colleague from Nova Slovenije explained earlier. A weak and outdated law, the 1984 law, interpreted differently, causing various regulations and activities of the congregations in the absence of control, for today the minister also told. The bill follows the principles of providing piette, at least in some parts, not just the last wish, especially the piette we know in the countryside, where most of the deceased is escorted from home, the deceased is at home, at least some of them are mostly the wishes of the deceased. The law ultimately follows the protection of health against communicable diseases, the free choice of the place of burial, equal treatment of funeral service providers, which we welcome in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as well as other operators at the cemetery, such as stone-choppers, gardeners and the like; and the principle of effective control that has not been established so far. The bill renews the establishment of records and registers, simplifies procedures and includes innovations in this area, such as dealing with dead fetuses. The area of regulation will be defined in a comprehensive and systematic manner by means of a clear distinction between the performance of the public service and market activity. Uniform conditions will be laid down for the execution of funeral activities and supervision of the implementation of both activities will be regulated, as minimum standards and services should be ensured. Let me say that there are no binding provisions at the level of the European Union that would impose on Member States the requirements for arrangements in the field of funeral and burial activities. It is also very difficult to compare the legislation of the Member States in this area, as each regulates this activity in accordance with its tradition and local customs. In most cases the management of burial sites is within the competence of local communities; funeral activities are different. For example, in the case of Italy, where municipalities grant concessions for a certain period of time, in Austria, operators must have an appropriate trade permit, in Croatia they must meet certain conditions for carrying out the funeral activity which they liberalised this year. Slovenia is the closest to the Austrian and Croatian models in this regard. Also, in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, for many years it has been argued that funeral and quarry activities should be fully carried out within the framework of a free economic initiative as a market activity. In the Chamber of Commerce, they point out that the costs of stone, funeral and burial services are borne by the customer himself. Funerals are only a special form of monetary aid for the socially weak, so every consumer should also have a choice on the market. As I have already mentioned, the neighbouring country of Croatia has already adopted a new law on funeral activity, there it is called the Funeral Activity Act, with which the funeral activity has fully opened the market. The bill follows, therefore, most of the starting points that we have also presented most often in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that the burial activity will also be in the future municipal public service due to order, since the vast majority of European cemeteries are also cultural monuments, this should be specifically regulated. And funeral activity will take place on the market, subject to certain conditions. Here the government follows the Slovenian Democratic Party. Of course, we have many concerns. An exception is the provision of a 24-hour on-call service for the acquisition and transport of the deceased, as it is part of a funeral activity that the market cannot provide; this is for me by the government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party in this area, we follow the amendments of New Slovenia because we believe that the 24-hour duty can not be every first transport from the place of death, but only an intervention transport ordered by the police and the judicial authorities. The proposed method of first transport is not carried out by order of the relatives, who are only the payers in this case. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the law if, at least in this part, the amendments proposed by the New Slovenia Group are adopted, because we believe they follow the principles that we also have in the Slovenian Democratic Party. So much for our side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues, coworkers, of course also you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I would like to say that we have set a number of lively debates in our parliamentary group on the draft law. After all, in fact, last week's marathon round, we have decided to support the proposal of the law by a majority. It is an important fact that in practice in 30 municipalities burial and funeral activities are already fully marketed. In 35 municipalities, however, part of the activity is marketed. This indicates that the way in which funeral and funeral activities are organized depends on the decision of a particular congregation. The problem is that municipal decrees setting out the ways and conditions for the provision of burial services, concessions and the execution of works at burial sites with public workers are often not in accordance with the legislation in force. During our consideration, we have always wondered whether the proposal for a law would allow for adequate care and treatment of the deceased. It is essential that the provision of services of public interest is provided in a permanent and smooth manner. I have often wondered whether the liberalisation of funeral activities could lead to the beginning of a shortage of funds that have now been flowing from more profitable funeral activities. In doing so, let me remind you that the funeral operator will have to pay the funeral fee to the funeral operator if the burial order is to be so determined. Part of these funds will be available for burial activities. Nor does the bill provide for the full liberalisation of funeral activities. It is the institution of a 24-hour on-call service, which will be a compulsory municipal economic service and will cover transport from the place of death to the cooling areas, including the use of these. By decree, the municipality will prescribe a burial order in which it will determine how to ensure its operation. It is also worth mentioning that current operators will still be able to carry out their activities; and it is highly likely that those who have done their job well will continue their work. What has driven the technique to support the law is the definition of the basic funeral for the Desus Group. We wanted to ensure that the most vulnerable are afforded a decent basic funeral and that it is clearly defined. Thus, the payment of the basic funeral shall not exceed the amount of the funeral and the post-mortality provided for by the law governing the social security benefits. The funeral operator will have to provide a basic funeral accordingly. However, basic standards and norms are also defined. For the Desus Group, it would be unacceptable for those socially threatened with a painful loss of a loved one to work on how to provide funds for the final reputation. As has already been said, we have a slight concern about the concept of the liberalisation of funeral activities, but the bill is complete because it is needed and regulates a loosely regulated area. Most importantly, it will enable the socially weak to have a decent reputation for loved ones; therefore, we will generally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u55	Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister with a team; colleagues and colleagues! Today's proposal for a law brings a new system of regulation in an area which, due to its particular importance, has been organised since the time of the former country as a community-based activity of special importance. In changing the legal order, we recognized its importance by keeping it organised as a compulsory economic public service, which is under the original jurisdiction of the congregations. The system itself, adopted in 1984, did not change in a single country. Nevertheless, most stakeholders believe that this area has been properly regulated all the time. How, then, did the congregations carry out their duties? Because of their original jurisdiction, they arranged it as best suited to each congregation; by following local customs; and by making meaningful use of potential and tasks. Thus, in some congregations it was organized by municipal directors, municipal companies, back in others with concessions of various sizes. Some congregations have left the whole activity free and invisible hands of the market. Significantly, though, despite various regulations, many did not die where they were buried, so many did not live in congregations where their funeral took place. For this reason, when adopting such legislation, it is necessary to have uniform or at least approximately uniform standards and broad consensus in the environment of established solutions. Nevertheless, the main reason for the initiative to amend legislation remains the findings of the Court of Auditors, since it assesses that the current regime is not appropriate, since the implementation of market activities partly covers the costs of essential non-market activities. At the same time, the Court of Auditors considers that it is not a single activity and that funeral and funeral activities are two separate activities, which must also be dealt with in this way. The legislator was thus faced with a challenge – to draw a clear distinction between two activities; and, at the same time, what is essential in such legislation, to draw a clear line between public and private; between what is the interest of the community and what is a free economic initiative. Due to a narrow understanding of the Court of Auditors’ decision, there was also a risk of predominance of neoliberal logic that everything from which profits could be forged should be left to the market; anything that was necessary was to be imposed on the public, municipal finances and concerns. This logic was opposed by the Social Democrats in the process of drafting the law, as we also opposed attempts to cross the boundaries of dignity during the debate and to reject the intentions of some to overturn the public interest, public operators; and in return, we have achieved the privatisation of activities that have been successfully and successfully carried out in many municipalities today. We have therefore insisted that the reformed law introduces urgent solutions mainly where there are basic reasons for the special status and arrangements of funeral and burial activities, namely due to the decent treatment of the dead and respectful treatment of the relatives; due to public health and the prevention of the spread of the disease; the core of public interest, which, under Article 74 of the Constitution, prevails over the right to free economic initiative; and because of the original competence of the municipalities to regulate this area to the greatest extent in the local normal manner. In the opinion of the Social Democrats, the legal regime should be adapted where time and reality so require. Following a series of discussions and coordinations, a good and balanced law is before the National Assembly today, which protects public interest in all key areas, which clearly limits the market share of the activity and imposes uniform standards and obliges it to provide a clearly defined minimum decent funeral at a reasonable price. The law, which – which is crucial – has not exceeded the limits of dignity in its preparation and has allowed for a wide exchange of proposals, also deserves support and will be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Scoberne. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 12 July. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate article 11 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Because I find that yes, I suggest you sign up. Mr Primož Hainz applied first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The bill is undoubtedly very good at some point. It is a matter of the applicant taking care of the socially disadvantaged and delaying their burden at some point and providing the means for the burial to be carried out irrespective of the status of the family or the deceased. Of course, the law at some point, at least for me, is not acceptable for a simple reason because its basic orientation is a market direction. The fact is that funeral activity is completely released for a market that has already been established in some municipalities, there is no doubt that there are 30 or how many listed. However, I think that those congregations that have governed this way so far have arranged this because they have estimated that this is the simplest and even more consistent with the custom. I think that we should leave to all the congregations the view or possibility of deciding for themselves what funeral and funeral ceremonies will look like — but well, the problem is funeral ceremonies — in their area; not for the whole congregation, but even for individual burial places, each; for there may also be some differences within the congregations that only the congregation can detect. I can say that this law regulates in a new way something that is arranged and works, just maybe what it is should be written in some way. That is why I am joining the opinion, but today some of the initiators have already said, the Union of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Union of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, also the Chamber of Commerce, which is particularly surprising in this sense or in the context of the market economy. They note that such a release would mean a deterioration of services and an increase in costs for people, of course also for the country in the case of socially weak people. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which refers to the Constitutional Court, says: "These are activities which cannot be provided on the free market for reasons of fiveth, health, health and health. Gaining profits cannot be subordinated to providing public needs. The law also interferes with the autonomy of local self-government and is therefore also controversial from the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, art. 140. The municipality is an autonomous community which sets its own tasks; and this is its original jurisdiction." Thus, it sets out independently, independently, autonomously and this is also expression, these are the terms set by the European Charter of Local Self-Government. I argue that if I take the case of Ljubljana, where both activities – funeral and funeral – are regulated by the Zada Institute and at the same time regulates everything that has already been mentioned in the debate. Regrets are a multitude of cultural monuments, which also need to be maintained; and this is what the Griefs are doing. And Ljubljana's Regrets are an example of a great park, if I may say so. But it is not only about Ljubljana; as I know, it also applies to Maribor and many other congregations that I would not list. And my personal opinion, if I release the papers now, i.e. the position of the official documents, I think that market activity in this area can lead us to some battle for the bodies if I can grave, because at funerals we need to react in a moment, so quickly. And then this battle is for who will and who will not carry out this so-called market activity, who will be cheaper and who will not, who will not, who will be better, become the kinsmen at the most inappropriate time, on the day or two after the death of a relative. For that reason, I find the matter particularly unpleasant. If I may comment on Article 15, the lamp with the ashes of the deceased may only be handed over to the selected operator. What does this formulation in the proposed law mean? This means that baptism with the deceased, wherever he was, comes to the ashtray, clearly, for aesthetic reasons, for health reasons with an authorized organisation; but after the barbecue is, when the fire is done, I see no reason why this individual, a relative, should pay, I don't know, 100, 150 euros or how much the transport costs to bring the barbecue to the cemetery. This is an entirely additional cost that is unnecessary and serves only the one who organises it, which is an authorized private legal person. When we could say "we" here, we built an ashtray in Ljubljana, we promised the widows that they could put the ashtray on the bookcase. So cremation is important, for then there is no danger of anything happening for health reasons; and it can have this glow at home. But in socialism, this principle was somehow destroyed by lawyers who said it was not possible. And today it's obviously going to be capital because part of the profit, of course, is going to go away in this way. And so we have a complication around the waste in the sea, that this is a huge cost, we have a problem with the scattering of ashes in the hills, we have a problem with waste in the cemetery as well; but now it's a little bit more arranged because it's in some suitable place on individual burial sites. Since my grandfather and grandmother died right after the construction of the incinerator in Ljubljana, in 1980, 1981, I came to Zale, on the back seat of the car I gave a beautiful wreath, in the middle of that wreath set the grill and we went to the Bottom of Krški and finished the burial. I didn't have to pay anyone, and that's how it worked so far. And I think it was pietically and according to the wishes of the deceased and, of course, to us as those payers, if you will. I still have one story to tell, by the way, that's interesting. My colleague, Mr. Vrtovec, was working on the task of Dr. Alojzi Šuštar, the archbishop of Ljubljana and the metropolitan area. We were very lucky at the time because he was led by the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia. And when we talked about this, a glowing funeral — yes or no, because it was something new to the Church at the time; and then, after some discussions, the gentleman said very wisely: It is not nice, but it is not sin if the deceased is burned. I have to say this because today there was a talk about neighbours in Croatia because they did not have a Schuštar, but they had a Kuharić; and this is much more complicated. They have two funerals there for that. I'm only mentioning that, by the way. First, they say good - bye from the baptism or body, and then relatives have to go back to the cemetery in a week to bury it, that is, this barbecue to that place, that is, to the grave. This, of course, is a very painful matter for those relatives. But it's just by the way. However, as for certain positions of the parliamentary groups, I must say that in the thirties, that is, since 1980, when we made this ashtray and later in Maribor, the funerals have not been replaced in anything. The regime changed, but I don't remember about funeral ways, we were then in the '70s, in the '80s, a lot of promotion of mortuary cords, and this matter is now functioning for about 30 years or so. I see no reason to say how terrible it was before, and now it's much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, once again a very nice greeting to everyone! This material, a funeral and burial activity, must be extremely difficult material. After 32 years we receive a new law, in this respect Minister Restovalski should be congratulated for his snout. Now that we see that there is no consensus on the part of key actors, perhaps we should take some time, perhaps until this autumn. I am deeply concerned and am not satisfied to see that the Community of Slovene municipalities does not support the law, the Association of Slovenian Municipalities does not support the law, the Association of Municipal Communities does not support the law, the Economic Chamber does not support the law, the Chamber of Commerce and Business in one part does not support it, the ZDUS – The Union of Retired Associations does not support it. Yes, but now the Members are supposed to support it. And it's basically a law that also interferes with the area of local self-government. Today, the European Charter on Local Self-Government has already been mentioned and ratified by this National Assembly in 1994. And what we ratify must be respected, and we have learned so much in these twenty-five years, if we do not respect the laws, international treaties, any acts adopted by the National Assembly, then the bloody head hurts us. I am not predicting now some painful future for this law, but there will always be some bitter taste that the Members will have. Unfortunately, we cannot give support on our part, but we want to improve this law in good faith with the amendments we have tabled. Above all, we cannot accept that, despite the fact that the government at the declaration level is saying that the fifth is the first one, which we must respect in this law and especially in this law; this is not the case. I think that in all the history of human civilization, somehow the will of the deceased or the desire of the living has been taken into account, in what way the family should say goodbye to him, where he will lie and so on. I was on the construction committee myself when we built a self-contribution building in our village – some of you are robbed of the self-contribution experience. A beautiful architectural building on a high cultural level, and many at that time told me that they probably deserved to rest for the last night at home, at home, at home, at a home that they had been creating for the rest of their lives. Fortunately, I can say, luckily, in my constituency, these loops have shown their functionality very well and people actually decide that the eulogy of the deceased is in the loop. The Member of the Constitution is a Member of all the people, under Article 82 of the Constitution, and must also see those villages, those hamlets, where they do not have a rope, and where it is perfectly normal that to date there has been a tradition from home, a part of culture, if you want. Now this law forbids it and it will be necessary to take the deceased somewhere else, to another village where the cord is. That's how we understand the operation of this law. It's always good to do a simulation. Let me get to the specific amendment of New Slovenia to Article 11. Here we want to replace in the first paragraph the word "every transport" with the word "every intervention transport". How do we argue that? The 24-hour duty can't be every first transport from the place of death but only an intervention transport ordered by the police or the judicial authorities. Any contracting entity, which is also a payer of services, must have a choice if we are already living in a democratic and free marketed society. The proposed method of first transport is not carried out by order of the relatives, who are in this case only to the payer. In addition, we stress that the first transports are unsettled because the deceased are still being transported unsettled, was a traffic accident or another accident. We therefore propose that only intervention services are carried out within the 24-hour service in the event of traffic and other accidents, natural disasters and so on. For all other transports it is necessary that service providers also have the option of free choice, this is what this is about. I think it's pretty logical. We expect your support, colleagues and colleagues, with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u61	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u62	Vice President, thank you for your word. I have already mentioned, in the position of the Group of Members, that within our Group we had one really marathon debate on this bill. In my brief debate, I will try to present exactly my views on this proposal, or how things have been arranged and how they work so far. It is true that this law, which is still in force today, is in fact from the past. But this area, respected colleagues and colleagues, as well as ministers and co-workers, people on the ground are specifically carried out in a way that is a tradition. And tradition will be very difficult to change, or I don't think any marriage or municipal decree will do that. It is true, however, that these matters could be handled differently than is now proposed. We could adopt a short law that would set some principles in this area and then leave this issue to local communities to regulate each one in accordance with an existing tradition. In the law, however, basic matters should somehow be laid down. As the bill-maker, this is the government on the basis of the preparation of the Ministry, decided to prepare the matter as it is, I must say that I myself have had certain concerns. In the final conclusion, I have come to the conclusion that some things are already being settled in local communities as provided for in the law. That is why I did not have so many questions or concerns that this matter would become too liberal. I have to say from practice in the past, when I was mayor of one of the Slovenian municipalities, that by then we had a public company that carried out both activities. But it has always occurred to us that the management of the public company has told us that they always have losses at the cemetery. And the local community also had to adequately cover these losses. On the basis of these regular findings, we have decided to make a substantial change in the matter, and we are going to tender for the concession. We have tendered concessions for both activities. I must tell you that the people with the concessionaire and his services are very pleased. And now let me say my thoughts about the concerns of individuals that espas will suddenly come to meet the conditions under the law so that funeral activities can be carried out in the municipality or in various burial sites throughout Slovenia. This thought is, in a way — and with some interest after profit — they will do it and may not do it as pietically as they deserve to do the burial process. No, my respectable colleagues, if someone does this once, then, believe me, at this cemetery, they won't have far to go around this possibility. It is very important that we have also established in this law a basic funeral, what it means, and at the same time we have said on what basis the basic price of the funeral can be formed. And I have understood and I hope that, in fact, within this determination, the amount to be shed or spent by the undertaker of the funeral activity will also be devoted to the burial activity. Not without this amount, which is in some way linked to social transfers, but someone would say beyond that – but since I have to settle the burial activity, I am going to raise the bill so much. This would not be in harmony with what we understand or understand personally. I think that this is my basic thinking related to this proposal, and I will end by saying that I will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I welcome you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As I have already said on the Committee, I can say that the proposal for a law that we have today under consideration follows, at least in the vast majority, the principles of the Slovenian Democratic Party. As you may have noticed, on the one hand we could stress this market activity concerning funeral activities, which I think must enter the market because people, including the relatives of the deceased, must have a free choice. What someone explains is that someone who is in a difficult emotional state is difficult to decide is no excuse. If someone is in a difficult emotional state, he cannot make decisions; most often he chooses a local, well - known funeral service that has already served. Of course, we must follow the civil principles of the last will of the deceased, his loved ones, who will decide how this funeral will be carried out and by whom. The second is a burial activity. I was alone much around the world, from the cemetery in Paris, where many international stars from the world of politics, music and everything else, including in Vienna, Ljubljana and Maribor. These are cultural monuments. It would be difficult for a purely market activity at a cemetery, and I can't imagine how it could have worked, whether there were five companies in one cemetery, that is almost impossible to carry out practically. Here the Slovenian Democratic Party follows the view that this should be a municipal public service to appoint a single cemetery administrator, usually one administrator, because this would be the easiest. We also follow this; if he is unqualified, if he does not do his work, including the principles of what the congregation and the congregation council conclude, he will find another. But the other thing that bothers us, what happened in the coordination process, is what I said today, 24-hour duty. Look, all I can do is intervene. For example, my father dies at home, whose death we may have expected, most often after a serious illness. The fact that it is a compulsory service and that, as a mercenary, we know, after 1 January 2014, the funeral is censored, so it is not necessarily payable, but only those who are socially at risk. I think the current price is €606 for an individual and more than €900 for a family. For everything else, we are the payers of these services. As a result, someone who is a mercenary of these services may decide. I'm sorry, someone who dies at home, someone decides a 24-hour job, that this one has to come and take him; that doesn't seem acceptable to me. I think we need to offer a second choice in 2016 to those relatives of the deceased. I don't see any major shocks, either, as far as market activity is concerned with funeral activity. Because of this, not because most people are connected to a local provider, they know each other, they have been at other funerals; but this free choice still foresees this law and that this solution is good here. What I said in the beginning today is that the culture of death in Slovenia has changed. If you look at the number of ravishing funerals 20, 25 years ago and 2016, they change. I think my colleagues, including the Vice-President of the National Assembly, spoke earlier about the changes. Let's say 30 years ago, it was some kind of unusual funeral. Today is actually most of the funerals. First, they're cheaper, they're more acceptable to their own, and most of the time, they have less work, they destroy some monuments, and everything else is more practical and so on. But also here, I must admit, I agree with Desus, especially with the Vice-President, when he spoke about why grill should, say, be committed to the operator of this service. There's a whole bunch of cases out there when you pick up a dead man's grill, you load it into a car, and you can take it away. How many relatives do you think that's gonna be? I do not see here that this should be some kind of paying activity and that it should be mandatory. It's not about health or sanitation; it's about the pie. And if it's the desire of a deceased or a relative to perform such a funeral, I don't see any problems here. I think we're making things too hard here, and here I have a thought. But the law is at a stage such as that, the support of the Slovenian Democratic Party is largely based on the amendments that have been to us, we can say, domestic ones, which have been tabled by Nova Slovenija. And this is where we stand. You have our support if these amendments are accepted because I think they're normal, they're going in some direction that's normal, which is sane. Of course, I would like another explanation, Mr Secretary-General, especially in the stage of the final five. So it is whether someone dies at home after the new marriage today, or can stay at home, or whether the local custom that is still present in the Slovenian Gorges may still be present in many ways to escort the deceased from home to the last rest, so that we should also go here in this sphere. We haven't had any problems here, not health or sanitation. There are, in all likelihood, a number of municipalities along the Slovenian Mountains that do not have ropes. I must admit that in Slovenian Gorica, all municipalities in which I have also run for office have well-ordered burial sites, well-managed mortuary cords and no problems; but there are local customs in many municipalities in Slovenia. I don't see any problems here, so we don't get in line, and we don't give this opportunity to a family member or a deceased who has this wish. It's a tradition, it's a tradition, as I said before, in a culture of dying that is present every day. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is also the law that concerns all of us; this is the right that comes in the end when we are all the same. And here, too, we welcome the fact that when a person dies, that last rest, he must have every decent burial. Regardless of his status, his financial status, we're all the same here. Those who are faithful say that we are all equal before God; but I think we are all equal in the last hour of rest. At that time, only our good deeds in everyday life, the actions that will remind us of the people who lived around us, will count. I invite you to answer my question about these local customs, when someone dies at home, or is it possible under a new law, because formations are highly questionable. I also want support for the amendment, as regards the 24-hour service, so that it is only for intervention transport, when there are serious accidents involving unforeseen deaths, most of the time on roads where immediate responses are needed and the remains of the deceased are taken to the nearest institution. I can say, on the one hand, the law also follows developments in this area, whatever we can call it, may sound strange; but I call it the development of a culture of dying. But it's full of concerns, and there are interests. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we prove that we are not carriers of some heavy neoliberalism in this area, but it is a matter of sound thinking. On the one hand, healthy market activity must also be competition here; on the other hand, careful management of burial sites, as burial sites in Slovenia are cultural monuments. Each cemetery also shows our identity, who lived somewhere, how the city developed; in fact, you can find out at every cemetery where the natives were buried, and where the younger inhabitants of a place. Visiting burial sites is sometimes also a tourist destination, and in many large cities around the world, burial sites are visited by tourist sites, often having major problems right where big stars are buried in the cemetery. Finally, I would like to say the strangest thing they have in the United States when I have spoken to many craftsmen in the field of burial. In the United States of America, for example, they have an otherwise arranged, very unusual, burial and funeral activity. In most federal states, there is a habit of being buried there in concrete coffins. So they bury a concrete coffin, and when people in America move, they pick up a concrete coffin and take it to a new place where a whole family, including the deceased, moves. And then they bury him in a new place where they get a job. This is, for example, one such peculiarity and the strangeness of the United States of America, which also follows one of their traditions. Dear Minister, I would ask if you could give me an answer to my first question; and you, dear colleagues in the coalition, to support these amendments, which I think are well-intentioned, and to follow some of the last wishes of the deceased and his relatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the minister with the team! First of all, allow me to sort out a little bit of the actual state of affairs, as is currently the case. First the de jure, then the de facto. I have already mentioned this in my position, and some other discussers later reiterated that we already have the Act on Funeral and Funeral Activities in force and on the regulation of burial sites. Of course, in the Court of Auditors audit report, to which many of us referred today, not only the two recommendations recommended by the Court of Auditors to the Ministry – by the way, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which was not known at the time, but today, at the previous point with amendments to the Law on State Administration, we have just determined that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is the one who cares about this area. Thus, the Court of Auditors found that the municipalities had to adopt municipal decisions on the basis of the law in force. The Court of Auditors finds that the vast majority of the congregations have done so and some have not. Moreover, in 1993, when the new Law on Economic Public Services came into force, the congregations should adapt these decrees in accordance with this new law. Again, the Court of Auditors finds that the vast majority of the congregations have done so, and some have not. Another information from practice, there are even municipalities that have not adopted any decisions in this regard. You will not believe that there is a congregation among them, whose long - standing mayor is also the leader of one of the congregations’ associations. If you look at the Court of Auditors’ audit report in its entirety, it has more than 50 pages, the end of which is four annexes showing what is the normative arrangements for burial and funeral activities and the arrangements for burial sites and what is the actual situation. These annexes show that this area, for the first time, is complex, and for this reason, I do not believe that it has been implemented properly and equally throughout the country and that this has also created complications. We have more than 50 different forms of funeral and burial activities in Slovenia, followed by a recommendation from the Court of Auditors that this area be better and better regulated. That's as far as the de jure is concerned. As for the de facto situation and the claims made by the critics of the law that everything has been going great and fine so far, we have a number of acts that point out that everything has not been so right. Let me mention here, for example, in 2014, this is the latest decision of a court in Slovenia, which found that unfair business practices are used in the conclusion of contracts for the hire of a grave site, subject to the conclusion of a contract for the purchase and installation of tombstones. What does it look like in practice? I myself became convinced at last November 1st, when the cemetery is seen where the cemetery is expanding; and there are about 10, 20 prepared burial sites with built grave equipment, with monuments that, as the court has determined in this decision, performers of burial and burial activities condition if they wish to rent a burial place. A slightly older document, referring to violations of Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act, refers again to the fact that an undertaking has abused the dominant position in the relevant market of funeral services belonging to the public economic service of a municipality by, for example, rejecting an order for burial services, registrations and funerals on the basis of the client's authorization to refuse the issuance of invoices for services rendered, for example, requesting the payment of invoices in cash and for several other practices which indicate that the restriction of competition has been prevented. Nevertheless, as I have already pointed out in my position, it has in practice shown that we have funeral companies. According to data from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia on 31 December 2012, we have 68 legal and natural persons who had a funeral activity registered for the main activity; and another 202 who had registered as a foreign activity, not as a main activity. At times, in this long-term coordination since October 2015, I have felt that critics sometimes have some relevant concerns about marriage; they do not know what to do with these funeral companies. Are we just trying to stop them from doing business? Are we going to continue to prevent them from doing business and, above all, how are we going to comply with the rules of the European Union regarding the movement of goods and services?Oh, my God! Of course, there were no such alternative better proposals. In the end, the criticisms proved flat-rate, and I also hope to claim that this law is balanced in the light of the expectations of all the actors mentioned — the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia, the associations of municipalities — and coordinated in terms of political coherence to the greatest extent possible, despite the fact that, above all, some Members of the Desus Group still have reservations. And while I'm at it, colleague Hainz, who is now sitting as chairman, in relation to the case of the grill and what that provision means, which you have read from the law, the reasons for giving barbecue to the funeral service provider. It is therefore necessary to read the whole paragraph with the amendments adopted on the Committee. It is not accepted for health reasons, but for the sake of the pietous ones; even the ashes of the deceased can be handled unrelentingly if we understand the pieté in a way that contains all the practices concerning the remains of the deceased or the deceased, regardless of the form in which they are carried out. I agree that this is easier to imagine in the case of a coffin burial, even because of size and the resulting need for transport. However, it should be pointed out that the ashes of the deceased and the deceased must also be treated in a pietically. If an ash grill is handed over to anyone, relatives or subscribers, there is a possibility of unpetitive behaviour. And since the piethetic principle is one of the highest, followed by this law, of course we were unable to adopt this proposal. And if I recall correctly, this is the only proposal that came from the Desus Group, which was not adopted. Others, among them, the most important one, already mentioned by his colleague Jurša, concerning the social aspect of the payment of the basic funeral, was accepted; of course, the colleagues from SD, of course, did not have any resentment. As far as the amendments of the New Slovenia Group are concerned, I can honestly say that we cannot support them. One reason is that the law, after a long period of time, at times of very difficult coordination between different stakeholders — non-political and political ones — came to a stage when it was at the border when any shift from compromises reached under individual articles, even the law, meant that the stakeholders would be even more dissatisfied. This is particularly true of your amendment to Article 11 concerning 24-hour duty and that you are proposing that this should apply only to intervention services. In this coordination, we have heard many examples from the past and from this emerging fear that they will again be faced with columns of vehicles of funeral companies that will stand in front of homes for elderly and health homes and wait for them to transport any deceased. At this stage of the adoption of the law, which I consider to be a sensitive phase, this further liberalisation of this part of the funeral activity, i.e. the 24-hour on-call service, does not seem acceptable from the social point of view already mentioned. Neither does the amendment to Article 19, nor is it based on the fact that, in spite of all of this, current undertakers of funeral and burial activities, which will mainly carry out a 24-hour on-call service in the future, i.e. public companies, are doing so in a way that it is guaranteed a fifth. If I put aside the costs involved and there have been cases where they were disproportionately high, it should be pointed out that the proposal for a law provides for a methodology for calculating these costs for a 24-hour on-call service. The article itself also sets out what these costs may include. It is also not necessary to extend deadlines because we are assessing, together with the Ministry, that the deadlines are set reasonably enough to be able to meet them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Whether it's multiple reported or just mag. Tonin? I'm asking you to sign up. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u68	There are two things about these matters. One is a funeral activity, the other is a funeral activity. For burial activities, we determine in some way what order will be at burial sites; we determine how funerals will be carried out. In Novi Slovenija we have no problems and problems if a burial activity, if you want a burial order, deals with some very clear regulations, if this is an economic public service. Because in these cases it is difficult to put the cemetery order on the market and that everyone at the cemetery will work in their own way, everyone will have their own rules. However, it seems important to us that, in determining this burial order, we should not go too much into the details of the law, but would basically lay down that the burial order is established by the municipalities, that is, the local community. I think that the municipalities are the most familiar with tradition, the most familiar with local specialities and customs, and these practices could be adapted as much as possible. It seems to us that the law here has gone a little too far in determining all the details concerning the burial activities themselves. And I'm going to say that you're not going to say that we're Piccolo, and we can also think of this part and say that we're ready to squeeze our teeth, and at least we don't have any problems with this burial activity and the economic public service. Now we get to the funeral business. In funeral activities, however, it seems to us that the basic principle is that the relatives themselves can choose in full, who will be chosen to perform the funeral ceremony on their behalf as their family member. And here I think that the law has gone absolutely too far because it has also set up a universal economic public service for all the first transports. If I'm very specific. It is difficult for us to understand why a family member who died at home because of his old age should not be selected for this first transport because of his illness, for whatever reason; why an economic service should be established for this first transport. We don't think there's any need for that. Also, these private companies that perform funeral activities have 24 hours of on-call services and can be practically called at any time and asked for a service, a transport of the deceased, a funeral ceremony. However, there are also cases where the first transport is not necessary at all. If the deceased dies at home, if the locals want to arrange it and prepare it for the ceremony, then I see no reason why the first transport should come. We would support the economic public service in funeral activities only in the case of special or, say, intervention first transports. When? When it comes to traffic accidents, when it comes to work accidents when it comes to suicides, there are various crimes, i.e. when police and other state authorities are involved in solving one case. In this case, however, it is right that we have a job that the public authorities can call on in any case to provide everything necessary for the deceased. In that case, yes. But in cases of natural death, there is absolutely no reason for us to prescribe this first transport with economic public service. What's the problem? When one of our own dies, of course, we are in distress, under stress. If these laws or regulations determine who you must choose for the first transport, it is very likely or in many cases — this practice shows — then the owners also decide to carry out all other services. Not only are we the first transport, but all that belongs to the funeral ceremony. And in this way, in some ways, we are privileged by this law to certain companies that will carry out this economic public service, which is not right. And there's really no need for us to do that. And in this respect, our amendments, particularly Article 11, are also ready, if you read it, we are very clear that the case of an economic public service is just every intervention transport, not every transport. This thing seems to us to be meaningful and the only logical thing to do. If I sum up our essence once again, I would say the following — in law, for example, it is a properly regulated area of burial activity; although it may be set in excessive detail, but in some ways a certain order is established. However, we find it totally inappropriate to regulate funeral activities, especially in terms of limiting the private economic initiative, since the possibility of family members choosing the operator they want is limited. I don't understand why this left-wing block has such great fears, if it's about privatisation and a pitiless act. The family will still be able to choose a public company. If you give your family a choice as to whom he chooses to serve as a funeral service, it can still be decided on by a public undertaking carrying out burial activities and funeral activities. He's got every chance. If he doesn't want to, you'll give him a chance. And I don't see what the problem would be if you gave people a choice. There's practically no real reason here for a coalition to be a problem. And another thing that bothers us in this marriage – we were unable to correct the amendments because the article was closed – is the disregard for local customs. The existing law, the one in force today, allows if the relatives want it, and if the deceased’s desire is to lie at home, even though there is a deathbed in his place, the existing law makes it possible. However, this new law, which was proposed by the Government or the government coalition, will be adopted, and in the event that there is no dead link in the place, it prevents the deceased from lying in his home. I do not say that there will be many such cases; but I say that for all of us the world’s dead should be the will of the world. If a deceased wants to lie in his own home instead of in a mortuary, he should be allowed to do so by marriage. Well, he doesn't. These are, in a way, our main comments on this law. I will say so, if we still accept the amendment to Article 11, then you can count on our support for this law; otherwise, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Perhaps I, too, should say at the outset that in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we talked about this subject for quite some time and at several meetings. My colleague, Mr Jožef Horvat, mentioned that he congratulated the Minister for Coriang. I'm a little concerned that we have to have some money in a marriage like this. I would say that it is necessary to have money in a law where we would like to tax our citizens more; not in such a law. And this is where two genders of advocates come in. On the one hand, we have advocates that funeral and burial activities should not be left to the free market, especially for reasons of piette, health and sanitary hygiene reasons. On the other hand, we have a totally different gender or other advocates who claim that there has been a free market for more than 20 years on the market. It is said that market activity in this area is already taking place. They therefore argue in particular that funeral activities fall not only within the framework of local policies and monopolies, but within the framework of professions, agreed conditions and healthy competition. We have white on one side, black on the other side. Some Members want us to take a compromise here. Compromise, colleagues and colleagues, is a gray color and cannot be black, not white; gray. Which means no one in this marriage will be fully satisfied. When I listened to my colleague Jožet Horvat, he mentioned that this law was not accepted by the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Municipalities, the Community of Municipal Communities, and the Association of Municipal Communities. On the other hand, colleague Tonin says that they do not agree that the 24-hour duty is not more open, is not liberalised. This is exactly what all of these congregations, all of which I mentioned earlier, are opposed to. Sometimes I don't understand the concept of what someone sometimes wants to tell us. I think that in this law we must first and foremost take into account the pieta, health and sanitary hygiene reasons, we must make some compromise of public interest, free economic initiatives, basic funerals and local customs. All these elements that I have just said must have been taken into account in this law. Believe me, it wasn't easy. I've certainly been at more than 15 meetings on this subject, we've been dealing with this subject for more than half a year. Let me briefly sum up the basics that this law solves. We set up a basic funeral, arrange funeral arrangements, and make sure that the local customs are followed by the congregations through their congregational councils. Here the congregations have the possibility that through the funeral system, I repeat once again, which is accepted through the municipal councils, they can regulate and observe local customs. We also manage records and registers, which I think is extremely important, and control and measures will be further regulated if the funeral and burial activities are not properly carried out. Tonin, who is unfortunately no longer in the hall, said that they would not support the law if we could not support his amendments regarding 24-hour duty. In this regard, too, we had quite a discussion in the parliamentary group about why we had adopted such a article. Let me read it to you. "24-hour duty includes every transport from the place of death to the cooling spaces of the public service provider or health care agency" – why, now the essence – "for the purpose of autopsy of the deceased, the seizure of organs or other procedures at the deceased." Here is the key purpose of why we decided to keep this public economic service. And here the public interest is extremely important. Or even for five reasons. This is why we decided in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre that public economic service should remain. As Krajnc already mentioned, there are already more than 65,67 companies active in funeral activities on the market. Let me read to you from the Court of Auditors' report, what is already the situation in Slovenia, what we already have today, regardless of the law already in force. The Court of Auditors notes in the report that in the thirties of municipalities, 14.2 % of all municipalities, funeral and burial activities are carried out exclusively as a market activity. It is said that in 14% of the activities are already marketed. And here we don't wonder, we don't worry about profit taking over the pie. I fully agree with my colleague Jurša, who said, if the company is established, it is normal to make profits; then there can be no piette here. Moreover, competition is, which means that companies, especi, d. o. o., have to adapt to local customs and also to be competitive and can serve their daily bread. Furthermore, in 35 municipalities, it is said in more than 16 %, funeral or burial activity was carried out exclusively as a market activity. In 29 municipalities, 13% say, a cemetery activity is carried out as an economic public activity and a market activity is also carried out in parallel, where service users can choose for themselves between funeral and burial services. I think it's more than obvious; in 94 municipalities, this is more than 44% of all municipalities, funeral and burial activities are carried out at least occasionally as a market activity. This is a fact and this is the current situation we have in the Slovenian space. The fear of some Members that profit from funeral activities will not provide a pieté, I don't know what expression to look for, but that there will be no more public interest here, I don't think it will last. I hope that corruption will be enforced and that this law will be passed. In doing so, we need to make sure that the service providers, most of which are family members, receive quality service for funerals and funerals and funerals; this service will be as expensive as possible for them. We have also provided minimum standards with this law, and this has not been so far. The price, according to one cap, is also determined that these prices will not be exceeded by companies that deal with this market. We have also included this social component in this law. We've done the maximum, and the ministry has done the maximum here, and I want to, and I hope that the croissant is still in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate on Article 11? Yes, thank you very much, then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr Minister, it can be immediately because the practice is such that in the first article of the debate they are grouped and then it is rarely very painful. I give the floor to Minister Zdravek Počvalski.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u72	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Once again, I would like to say that, in our view, this bill is a healthy compromise between the two great extremes; on the one hand, it is completely public, on the other hand, completely marketable. The concept is prepared in accordance with the starting points adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, namely, that the burial activity will also be in the future municipal public service and the funeral activity will be an economic activity, with the exception of the provision of a 24-hour on-call service for the acquisition and transport of the deceased, since this part of the funeral activity cannot be adequately provided by the market. The actual situation in the Republic of Slovenia is also taken into account. The Court of Auditors’ audit report shows that in the period 2009 to 2012, funeral and funeral activities were carried out at least occasionally as a market activity in 94 municipalities. And European guidelines – alignment with the Internal Market Services Directive. We have also followed a free economic initiative, following the example of other countries, because the funeral activity is being marketed. These countries publicly show that public interest, pieto, health and sanitary hygiene reasons as a civilisational achievement can also be protected in funeral activities in the open market. In particular, I must stress what I think was not clear from the debate today, or I see that there is a misunderstanding. This is also an answer to the Member of New Slovenia, Mr Jožet Horvat, that where there is no cord, the deceased may lie at home. It does not claim that where there is no rope, the deceased must be brought to the places where this rope is. Here's a few more words. During the coordination, we have repeatedly touched on the problems of the 24-hour duty station. I must say that we are reserved for proposals that would set an exception in this context, because we are moving away from unifying these transports; however, we are also preventing the possible unsuspecting behaviour of funeral operators and the struggle for a deceased who could lead corruption and unsuspecting behaviour in this area. However, I must say that I do not personally imagine or have written anywhere in the law that the congregation should have only one 24-hour service provider. I imagine that in the area where I come from, our congregation or our congregations will grant this permission to all three tenderers who are already engaged in this activity. And I believe that — no evil — I will have a choice in the future with this 24-hour duty. This liberalisation in this area is not open at the state level, but is open as an option at the municipal level. Of course, this is left to the congregations to decide how this problem will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss Article 19? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 58 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 63 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss this article? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. I hereby conclude the 10th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act. The draft law was submitted for consideration by a group of four Members and Members with the first signed mag. Alenko Bratusek. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law. [[She's not here.]] Of course we won't wait. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u74	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 26th session. 6. 2016 was treated as a parent working body by the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed mag. Alenko Bratusek. A request was also made for a general discussion, which was held 20. 5. 2016; and it was concluded that the law was suitable for further consideration. The Committee took note of the opinions of the Government, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and of the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 1 and 4 and of the amendments of the Committee of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Act. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service and the Council of State attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the applicant shall first be mag. Alenka Bratušek presented all the solutions to the proposed law and stressed the key issues that the bill also regulates. The legislative and legal service which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and, from a legislative and technical point of view, has made some comments of a substantive nature and specific comments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the draft law. At the meeting, the representative said that the amendments tabled in part followed the written comments of the opinion. In addition, it pointed out that the solutions proposed should also be considered in terms of possible excessive interference with the rights or freedoms of others. The solutions proposed to determine the internal organisation and the functioning of the National Assembly are, however, the content that should be regulated by parliamentary autonomy in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance explained that the Government did not support the proposed law. On the Committee, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance was presented by its representative, who said that the State Council supports the proposal for a law. In the debate, members and members raised the issue of traceability of sales procedures and the related issue of control of the National Assembly over sales procedures and the issue of the ownership structure of investment buyers, which should be known when purchasing. They pointed out that the sale of investments should be conditional on certain requirements and that the future owner should follow the adoption of the capital investment strategy. They also highlighted some issues related to the preparation of a new capital investment management strategy. The discussion also raised the issue of the cost of selling investments, some members felt that the National Assembly should have the opportunity to propose the recall of SDH members, while the conditions for recalling as already laid down in the law were applicable. The representative of the Government replied to the questions raised and provided further clarifications. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled to the article of the bill and adopted the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Articles 1 and 4 of the bill; it did not adopt any proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also voted on the articles of the draft law and adopted Articles 1, 2 and 4 and did not adopt Article 3 of the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Secretary of State, Mr. Dronja Method, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government has always opposed the Law on the Slovenian State Holding, which was introduced into the legislative process by the Group of Non-Aligned Members. On 12 May, the government adopted its position and forwarded it to the National Assembly. The reason for the opposition to the amendment lies mainly in the fact that the proposal for a law interferes with the independence of the Slovenian State holding company, thereby jeopardising the principle of independence as defined in Article 7 of the Act. In addition, we stress that the independence of the Slovenian State Holding is not absolute, it is limited by the basic management acts which I want to list in kind. For the first time, this is the Decree on the Capital Investment Management Strategy of the State adopted by the National Assembly. Then this Decision on consent to alienate 15 state-owned companies, which was also adopted by the National Assembly 21. 6. 2013 Thirdly, this is the Annual Capital Investment Management Plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in December 2015. This is then the management policy of the Slovenian State Holding and the Corporate Management Code of the State-owned Company as two basic internal acts of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which defines these management processes and principles within the Slovenian State Holding. These acts set the basic strategic objectives that the Republic of Slovenia wishes to achieve for each of the investments defined either as strategic or as important. This also defines how these companies should support the development guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia as shareholders or shareholders of these companies. In the process of dealing with the novel, we represent the view that it is not appropriate and good for Slovenia to leave the framework for corporate governance of state-owned companies adopted by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The first principle of the Guidelines is that a clear distinction must be drawn between the ownership function of the State and other state functions. Policy must be separated from corporate governance in the state of ownership. The OECD Guidelines clearly stress that the State must not interfere in operational matters and must respect the independence of the supervisory board and administration. In the context of the proposed changes, the thesis on many irregularities in SDH is being launched. The following is the claim that most companies have been privatised in the last period in tax havens. In response, I would like to point out that all key privatisations have been carried out within the European Union in a transparent manner. In addition, it should be stressed that Slovenia must respect the principles of free movement of capital laid down in Article 65 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Undoubtedly, however, the most demanding and politically exposed human resources processes are. At this point, we do not want to justify all SDH personnel moves in the last period. However, political involvement in these processes will not benefit from raising corporate governance standards. The proposed Article 2 of the paper, as voted in the case of the home labour body, seeks to put in place constant political pressure on the functioning of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. The legal inadequacy created by this opens up the possibility for Members to submit proposals on the current tape for the resolution of individual members of the Supervisory Board or of the entire composition, thereby creating a high risk of maintaining corporate governance and controlling the functioning of SDH. It may be established that the Slovenian State holding company will be unable to take decisions for a longer period, thereby implementing corporate management entitlements and conducting privatisation procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. At its 19th meeting, the assembly held a general debate on the proposal for a law and it is therefore not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 12 July 2016. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. The first is the proposer of mags. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In Article 1, I will allow myself a slightly broader explanation than is already the case in this National Assembly. In the management of state property, the Mira Cerar government failed the exam. If anywhere, in the management of the property, the coalition laid down the entire line. The fundamental objective of the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding was better and more unified management of state property. SDH is the owner of state assets and not the owner. He runs it and he doesn't own it. Being owner or having in management means something else or is an essential difference. I stress this because one of the proposed amendments to the law, which, unfortunately, has already been deleted by the coalition on the Committee, specifically referred to the fact that the Slovenian State Holding Company, at the request of the National Assembly and the competent working body, has to provide information on its business. Why is SDH hiding information from Members? I don't know, they obviously want to, and they have something to hide. Of course, I'm not surprised about all the human resources affairs. However, the National Assembly was the body that appointed the Supervisors of the Slovenian State Holding, so it should have the right to verify their operation. Transparency should come first. Is that right? Perhaps your answer is yes, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, but you have deleted this proposed amendment on the committee. And it is obvious that it should continue to be untransparent and hidden not only from the eyes of the public but also from the eyes of Members and Members. The following amendment, which has also remained in force by the Committee, relates to the discharge of the Supervisory Board. The existing law provides that it is only the Government that can propose the discharge of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. Given that the National Assembly is the body that appoints supervisors, it is likely that it has the right to propose their replacement. In particular, I would like to point out that the conditions for the replacement are, therefore, that supervisors cannot be replaced or proposed to replace them just like that, the conditions for their replacement are not changing at all. In line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we have drafted an amendment in our parliamentary group and very carefully regulated the process of replacing the Supervisory Council, either in the same way or in the same way as the specific procedure for the replacement of the Minister for Interpellation, 10 Members, clearly stated how and what. It is a pity that the coalition has rejected this arrangement and supported the basic article, under which indeed and indeed any Member may propose a replacement. Is this article really supported by a mistake, as the press say or ask me, I don't know, you're gonna say that and show it today. But I think it's time for the coalition to show and not just say that we need to act. Why must action be taken? The affair related to the Slovenian State Holding is – although this leadership works, I think, less than a year, but the affair is for the entire mandate. In fact, all affairs related to the personnel or sales procedures of the Slovenian State Holding are. NLB — appointment, proposal, replacement of members of the Governing Council, is finally determined, but since the beginning these overseers have been uplifting the spirits, and it is finally determined that they do not even meet the basic legal requirements. Dars – replacement of supervisors, replacement of administration and one big deal in Dars gets a gentleman who is close to the Modern Centre Party. New Credit Bank Maribor – sells to the financial fund. I don't know why it couldn't wait long enough for the state to at least collect the profits from the bank; what the new owner has done now. Paloma, the sale of Paloma, the proceedings stand before the court, an undertaking that so-called breathes into gills because of the mistakes that the court now determines, is running out of capital for the current business, not to mention development. Adria Airways – selling to an owner who doesn't even have basic references, again according to some employees, I think 18 employees with a capital of EUR 25 000; and you simply sell our only airliner, all of which – and even more so – calls after action. If the government does not act, you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition are here to do so. You can't stand in front of a camera and be critical, but you do nothing. If you really want our assets to be managed properly, you need to give the National Assembly an opportunity to act; without needless delay for one year. What's this delay supposed to do? Action must be taken immediately, unless you are preparing the ground for your opposition work in one year. The fact is that, of course, it is the most guilty and responsible for the event in the Slovenian State Holding, Mr President, the Modern Centre Party, but Desus and SD are, of course, no less responsible or their responsibility in all of this is the same or very large, because if these two parties were to be a little harsher, things could be put in the right place in the Slovenian State Holding. The law was prepared with sincere intent to truly manage our assets better than it is managed today. It was not intended to involve politics in the current business of the Slovenian state holding company every day, although, by the way, this government does. The case of Save, d. d., where you simply instruct one company to buy Savo, d. d., from another company or bad bank, even though at the Slovenian state holding company they say they have no money for it. Thus, in the ongoing transactions of such a bad bank as the Slovenian State Holding Government and the policy involved and involved. Our only goal and purpose was that if the Government did not do what it had to do in view of the situation and developments in the Slovenian state holding company, this opportunity would be given to Members and Members of Parliament. I am sorry, once again, that the ruling coalition has rejected the amendment followed by the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, and now we have before us a proposal such as that indeed any Member may propose a replacement of the Supervisory Council. But that's the way you ended up in the coalition? So a one-year delay, if you seriously mean that SDH needs to end such a stunt, it won't do much good. I call on you, especially in the coalition, that if we really care about the fact that there is anything left of the state property at all, you will not have to sell it at all, because the value will be so low that you will no longer have anything to manage, support the proposal without a one-year delay. But in fact, this amendment is put into transitional provisions, so that I may be a little bit more detailed at that time. With Article 1 and our amendment, which has been tabled, in fact, we want to bring back the basic objective that we had at the time of the introduction of the law. This is that it is necessary to check and show ownership of those who purchase Slovenian property. You can't sell everything we have to the financial funds without even knowing who's behind it. There are a whole bunch of speculations that our companies, at low cost of course, should buy back the ones they put on the bucket, not so much at SDH as at a bad bank. Through these so-called mailboxes. I hope in the coalition you are aware of your responsibilities and that together we prevent such things. This is the goal and desire of this amendment. I must say that the law in the first reading received unanimous support in the National Assembly, no one was abstention and no one opposed, which was a big signal that we all wanted to work things out. But then the coalition on the Finance Committee picked up another tactic and another path, and now we have something far ahead of us that is far from basic law. Maybe I can ask for another thought and really show together that we don't care where the Slovenian State Holding with the management of our country leads.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Who else wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mag. Dušan Verbich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Secretary of State, Ambassadors, Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Initially, I would just like to say, in relation to the debate on Article 1, that the honourable proposer has taken advantage of the opportunity, what is almost normal in this national assembly, that if I am not sufficiently mistaken, an identical amendment has been tabled, as has been tabled on the home committee, and I believe that this is an input procedure because we can have a general discussion. Since the applicant has also allowed herself to have a general discussion in some way, I will also allow myself to have a view on this general work, on governance, especially because of the fact that the introductory words to Article 1 or to the general debate are such that I have concluded that the applicant has expressed a great deal of concern for the management of state property, and therefore, of course, a related, clear, public interest. What was important to me in this case was the proposed amendment to the Slovenian State Holding Act containing only four articles? I myself assess that there is a major shift in this part of the understanding of the functioning of this Parliament, which is linked to corporate governance with state property. What the proposer also said is true; at this first stage, which was also a plenary vote, a large majority, more than two-thirds, if I am not mistaken, of even 70 Members voted in favour of this law. I admit that I had already had a particular point of view at the time, but I finally considered that the opinion or matter should somehow be included not only from a political point of view, but also from a professional point of view, that this content should also be analysed slightly because of the fact that two decades of government management in the Republic of Slovenia, then through the introduction or principles of corporate governance with state assets, including a link to the OECD recommendations to which the Republic of Slovenia is committed, and as we know, the so-called accreditation procedures have been carried out for several years. For the management of state property is certainly not enough to talk only at the level of political debate. I am sure here that when we talk about corporate governance, that we must have in mind and also in these processes before us, that the application of principles and good practices, proven principles – especially private property companies – must be tolerated, not only in our country, but also abroad, as regards corporate governance and these societies. Not to speak in EU countries or in our neighbourhoods, where we often like to follow or refer to them. Of course, we cannot go beyond the positions of the institutions of the European Union. What I would like to point out from the outset is the fact that in this legislative process, in this case on the home financial committee, what has happened is extremely rare in this national council since we have been independent in recent history. For we have voted against the decision of the Government and also against the rule of law. In doing so, I stress here that it does not matter at all how this happened, but it is important that this happened. For the political rhetoric of the parliamentary groups generally follows the party's interests, and they are generally in a number of cases over the interests of citizens and citizens. That being the case, let's just look at an example that has been very active for some time in our debates, and it's tied to a bank hole. Five billion taxpayers' money for the current state of affairs with regard to the inefficient prosecution of agents that occurred in state-owned banks is also responsible for all policies that were in the executive branch of government; all governments in this period are said to have been responsible for almost 23 years. Because I can't get past the words of the well-known Attorney General of Mags. Goats that are a great specialist in economic and banking crime. In this National Assembly, his words were: "The greatest evil for ineffective persecution of persons occurred in this National Assembly when so-called cave legislation was adopted." What does that mean? That we have in the Slovenian legal order, which regulates certain areas, such a legal arrangement which, according to some legal expression, contains a so-called legal void. The characteristics of these legal blanks are precisely that a particular business event or decision is not recorded as an offence or a sign of a crime. That these legal voids have arisen, as has been seen in the last year, in the field of economic and banking legislation, is certainly the reason for the transposition or copy, in particular, of Austrian and German legislation, which we know we have in Slovenia the German acquis. It is said that the law-makers who are normally on the side of each government and the external experts, the advisers involved, simply introduced laws into the National Assembly, which did not fully contain the provisions of the German-speaking countries. And that's usually the part that describes the signs of crime. That's the essence of legal emptiness. We are Members, or were primarily representatives of citizens and citizens, and we have a role to play in politics, not experts in individual fields. Therefore, in this case, and most likely in any other case, there cannot be all the burden and burden of responsibility on us Members, even though we are aware that we are a legislative body. It is true, however, that every political option, and even those in power, through the legislative and executive branches of government, wants to carry out their views and views on their programmes. Legally, however, there must be a public interest at the forefront. If I finish this piece. The fact is, I do not wish to be a critic of the past governments, but for a five billion-dollar bank hole and an ineffective prosecution of its agents, the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party cannot be blamed, for two years ago we were simply not there. However, today it is difficult for me to face or face the following fact: the motioner of today's point, the honourable Member, expresses an incredible momentum and desire to conduct procedures in a transparent and only public interest, is said to be in the public interest, the interest of citizens and citizens. How honest is that? And I ask where this same Member was with the same mindset and concern when there was a speech at the time of her government, when she was running for European Commissioner, when she made decisions that were harmful to the country. In particular, I am referring to the privatisation of private banks that have become state property: Probanka, Factor Banka, Banka. Where was she, or where were her words related to the removal of the bonds? Not to mention that, at the time of its presidency, the state in the US market was in charge of almost commercial interest rates, for which today we are paying over a billion euros only for interest. And I ask whether this is transparency and public interest. I believe that, most likely in one interest, it was only a personal interest and that it allowed politics to do so. Can we then believe that we believe in a Member, a politician who, after three years, with his proposal for a law, has a purely and solely good purpose of public interest? Personally, I must admit that I find it difficult to believe, and this is followed by the question of what favours such conversion. Usually time brings answers, or what is often very present in recent times, to investigative journalists. Where is the border between policy and corporate governance? This is a matter that certainly touches us with this law. When we talk or talk about state ownership management, we know that it is companies and companies with different legal and organisational forms in which the country has a whole or a majority share. When Members discuss this kind of content of laws or changes and this touches on corporate governance, it is simply not enough that we have just a political debate. In recent times, there have been many speeches and discussions in the National Assembly about corporate governance. I must admit that I am pleased that we now have a state property governance regime in place, which is regulated so that it is only within the policy remit and only the drafting of an act called the State Property Management Strategy. It is said that the Government prepares and adopts only a strategy and submits it to the National Assembly for approval. Following the adoption of this act, the policy must not be involved in further implementation activities, as all operational processes for the implementation of the objectives and associated risks have been transferred in accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act to the Supervisory Board and its Administration. I think that's how it's supposed to be. And I'm really wondering if that's true. All the long-standing practice of governments, and even in the present, is that they do not fully understand, or do not understand, such rules of corporate governance. It is a pity for all of us, and I also believe that other Members have not followed these basic principles of corporate governance with State ownership in these 20 years, and it is a fact that it is shown that in many cases individuals or related groups have had the greatest benefit. I can say something that where politics is, there are lobbyists, and there are different interests with them. Legitimate, certainly and understandable, but in these cases there must be a clear distinction between public and private interest. The Slovenian State Holding Act provided, as it was said, a very good basis for transferring professional management and management of state property to the Authority of the Supervisory Council and the Administration to the exclusive benefit of the State. So these two bodies should operate according to the highest standards of profession, without politics and political affiliation. For the government is the custodian of state property, and as the owner it has all rights arising from property rights, as well as from corporate governance rights. This means that the owner has every moment the possibility of replacing any individual member or entire supervisory board – I am talking about SDH. In such a case, I am of the view that no explanation is necessary for the reason. Usually that is enough — mistrust. For such a owner, I think I can say that he is the responsible owner. In practice, this means that, as a rule, there is no change in companies that are doing well, mainly due to the political ambitions of individuals or to a wider or higher political interest. On the other hand, employees in companies have no right and no legal basis to make it impossible or ultimate conditional on the owner of the company to change its decision to replace the members of the Supervisory Board in different ways, including by suspending the work processes. Any action taken willfully and the decision of the owner, I believe it is unlawful. Of course, it is assumed that the owner is responsible in his appearance and activity, who has an interest in acting on the principle of sustainable development of society, regardless of whether or not he is in state-owned companies. So far, the 10-year practice of a state-owned asset manager not to take into account certain circumstances, in particular the business or current performance achieved, but that the rule of "it is important that it is ours" must, as a rule, be terminated. However, if it is already necessary to include recruitment with a political motive, which is and most likely to be present to some extent, this should be carried out or carried out in a transparent manner, with professionally qualified individuals at the end of the mandate and aware that the new team must somehow follow the development of society and not merely financial exhaustion, as we have seen in a number of cases in recent years. Thus, the Government, as a national asset manager, must be aware of the policy separation from management. It is my opinion that the Government is directly responsible for meeting the objectives set out in the State Property Management Strategy despite the fact that the operational activities have been transferred or delegated in accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act to this institution. It is precisely for this reason that it is the duty of the Government to monitor the processes in the Slovenian State Holding, its management and to react in a timely or reasonable manner and to take appropriate measures. If I finish this part, I can only say that this is how I imagine corporate governance of state-owned companies. However, I would like to make a few words, as the proposaler also mentioned the activities and discussions we had on the parental committee. The legal opinion of the Legislative-Legal Service, when we read it somehow, is not the most favoured by these changes. As I have already mentioned on other committees, I would also mention here my position as regards the opinions of the Legislative-Legal Service. I believe that when it is not consistently pointed out that there is no non-compliance with the laws or violations of the Constitution, I consider the opinion to be an aid to my own judgment as to whether or not it is taken into account in relation to the content. With regard to the Government's position on this law, which was supported and still relies on the OECD's recommendations, I can only say that I also defended this position on the parent's committee, because the recommendations or so-called accreditation procedures carried out by the State of Slovenia regarding the management of state assets and the OECD's recommendations simply drink water. Perhaps, according to the latest events and actions, a person can still imagine a little at a certain point in time or work. What I would touch on in this context of the general debate is also the following statement, which is directly linked to the management of state assets. The statement of the honourable Member, who is the proposer, in the face of my fellow Member, Tillen Christmas, before the time that the following said that the Government is sending the Secretary of State, here present, to all the confrontations with the state property – the subject related to SDH and DUTB – because no one else is capable. It kind of sounded like this confrontation. It means that the former Prime Minister, who is also the proponent of this material, somehow ensured primacy over the management of state assets. Why does a person think that? For a simple reason, because as a party colleague, you are certainly well informed, and the moment you touch it, you wonder who is working for the public interest now: either the one on the side of the executive branch of authority, or the one who is in the opposition and by making a single amendment of the law wants to show a great deal of public interest. The fact is, I'd like to mention again here why I have such a mindset. Because both of you have been involved in the privatisation of private banks in the past, I am correcting the maintenance of private banks Probanka, Factor Banka and Abanka, is said to be state owned, and the bill was issued to taxpayers. Certainly also interchangeable or subordinated bonds. In view of this, I must admit that it is precisely because of such cases that I am in a certain direction critical, which I think is right. However, it is only evidence and also a question for all of us whether it makes sense for past policies to give once again the opportunity and the power to act in the public interest. I am increasingly convinced that this is a recipe and these are approaches in the private sector. However, in the public sector, I think that this should be avoided. Because when you get a chance, you just have to take advantage of it and prove that you really want to work for the public benefit. That is to say, there should be no so-called correctional exam in politics. Finally, with regard to the vote on the parental committee, something has also been said concerning the so-called Article 2 of the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding. I personally appreciate that this was a sign that certain changes will take place, which must and have an important message value. It is therefore necessary to be sober and to introduce changes in the thinking of all those who are active in the governance and decision-making processes of state property, so that I do not speak in the restructuring processes of enterprises. So much for this part of the general debate, but I will be happy to join in further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u81	The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I think that we do not have a general debate at this stage of the procedure, we are talking about the amendment to Article 1 and that the debate should go in the right direction, I will try to reiterate what this Article defines once again. The fact is that the Slovenian State Holding with this leadership under this government and this coalition was sold by all our companies to the financial funds – all of them. Some of the proceedings are still pending in court, and we do not even know who the owners of these financial funds are. Okay, if you think this is the right way, okay, no problem. We want with the proposed law and with the amendment we are now talking about to ensure at least that Slovenians and Slovenians know who is buying our companies. That's all. No lecture half-assed with views and insights into the past will change things. And in these procedures, unfortunately, there are no corrective exams when you sell them once you sell them. Pika. And you did that with all the companies you went to sell; with everyone from A to Z, we can go look in between. You weren't able to find one strategic partner for any company. If you are making a decision, of course it is a legitimate right, but also your responsibility; your responsibility, the responsibility of the coalition for all of this. We only want to achieve with this amendment, in fact, the objective which was also set out in the basic amendment of the law, that at least we know, must be disclosed to the owner of companies – financial funds, postal collectors, whatever you want. If you find a strategic partner, you know more or less who owns it. But if you're selling businesses to postal collectors in Cyprus, Luxembourg or elsewhere, you don't know that. And that's how you sell our companies, that's a fact. That's a fact. Unfortunately, we don't have a final here, not once. Because when he goes, he goes. With this amendment, once again, so that the debate does not go back 25 years, but let it go any further, we want to ensure the transparency of the sales process of our companies. That's all. If this is hard to understand – well, it is not a problem. But not then outside in front of the cameras, explaining to the press how transparent everything is and how nice everything is and how nice and right everything is. Here you have the opportunity to show that things need to be driven in such a way that they are transparent and people will know where the companies that have been working together for decades have ended. I am not one of those advocates who says that everything must remain state-owned, not because, in the past, the country has shown itself to be a bad owner in many areas. I am not an advocate, but I advocate that procedures must be conducted transparently and that we need to know and tell people where our assets end.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u83	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. With regard to the amendment to Article 1, I think it is really important to note that the fact that it is important to know who that final customer is in our companies which are sold in this case through the Slovenian State Holding Procedure. There are several reasons for this. If this buyer offered more than we invested in the rehabilitation, say, of the banking system, but if I use only one of the sold banks here, the New Maribor Credit Bank, then it's not that important. However, if this purchase is extremely low, then of course we must be interested to find out who is the buyer who received such a low value, say, New Credit Bank Maribor. And when we find that this amount is EUR 250 million and that, last but not least, the book value of the New Bank of Maribor was EUR 616 million and that in 2013 it was invested in the New Bank of Credit Maribor 870 million, in the framework of the rehabilitation, this issue is, of course, open. If you sell a bank at a lower value than a book value, if you sell a bank at a lower value than it was recapitalised, then of course these are very relevant issues, especially when it comes to 100 million amounts of the difference between what was invested in the bank and what kind of money was invested. And if we add the commitments made in this sale to the possible loss of a subordinated bond claim, in this case EUR 60 million at the New Maribor Credit Bank, the 250 will be reduced by 60 million. And if we look at these publicly available sources, there should also be a commitment, as far as it would occur at a later stage, to conclude that there has been an irregularity in tax evasion or tax evasion, which the Financial Administration can ascertain — here too the commitment has been made to become the cost of the country — then we must be really worried and really anxious to know who this final buyer is, who has received so many benefits in the sales phase. The current solution in Article 1 will be rounded to the administration of the Slovenian State Holding Board as well as to the approval of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. I have also formally taken the initiative of the government to resolve the supervisory council, which allows us to do so because I believe that such a supervisory council cannot have confidence by the National Assembly or by the people to whom we are actually committed, how this property is managed. And if this dictatorship remains as it is now in force in the law, then all these ownership verification procedures happen again only within the administration of the Slovenian State Holding and Supervisory Council. So, a circle of people. The National Assembly is unable to reach this information, and even when I am asking questions from Members of Parliament, I get an answer from the Government, because we can ask the Government questions that it is corporate governance, that these decisions are within the Slovenian State holding company itself, and that they cannot provide this information to a Member of the National Assembly. On the other hand, I would also like to point out at this point that the Government is not only a government but also an executive branch of government. And if the Government, as a group of companies, does not have all the information that I am asking as a Member, then I am asked who controls this closed circle of administration and the supervisory board at all, if the Government does not have that information at its disposal. These are issues that really need to be resolved as soon as possible and one of the ways is that we have accurate information on who that final buyer of this bad claim is. If I add to this information, which we also receive in publicly accessible places, we find that the Slovenian State Holding Company has 58 pages of advisory contracts. So when you read them, you find that all these advisory contracts are published on 58 pages. The amount of the advisory contracts is €11 million – more than the police are trying to negotiate to regulate their status, and let us not forget, the police are meant to protect our assets. But the police cannot reach these 11 million, they have extremely long-term negotiations with the government, and the Slovenian state holding company can easily conclude 11 million advisory contracts without any problems. So, whoever controls and defends, if I may say, this property of ours must fight to enable him to do his job and, of course, the advisors will easily acquire it. And how can we believe that these advisory contracts are concluded just to get as much money into the budget as possible and that we can not lastly provide the police with this money? It is very difficult if I return to this information that we have invested almost a billion in the New Credit Bank of Maribor and sold for, if I deduct all those commitments that were made at an additional 250 million, only 100 million euros. I am also taking part in the conclusion of the Prime Minister of the Government, who spoke about the apparent mafia connections in Slovenia, and we must be aware of this, that we are actually trying to pull the Slovenian state holding company out of networks, advisory networks that obviously have a very big impact on how Slovenian assets are managed. And just as a comparison, see, Norway has a defined national asset as untouchable, you cannot sell national assets in Norway; if this is the case, it is a case and the National Assembly decides on it. We have simplified this with either a list of 15 companies, easily concluded, without any clear criteria, what this should mean at all, and once again we establish a holding company, which operates as a share company, once again committed to some corporate principle, and with an excuse that politics must not influence, does what I have described. See, these are the facts that we are facing, and therefore I think it would really be necessary to change the law at least in that part, in this article 1, so that we get a clear answer, and who that customer is, and then these things are much clearer, much more comparable, also verifiable for the return, because all of this damage is at the expense of the people. It's not about the property that someone would, I don't know, create with their own effort and then decide to sell at a lower price. It is a matter of people's property, and this is a responsibility before us, so of course this amendment is exactly why I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u85	The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. The SDH Act is an essential provision for the management of state-owned enterprises in the public interest. The amended proposal of the Law touches on two key points, which we have been alerting for a long time in the United Left; for the first time, recruitment to the SDH Supervisory Council and, secondly, privatisation procedures. Before I define myself for the proposed solutions to the amendments and amendments, I will therefore first point to our past proposals and why the proposed amendment does not solve the essential problems in our opinion. In fact, for the first time, employees in state-owned companies still do not have their representatives in the SDH supervisory council and for the second time, the process of mass privatisation is continuing and the SDH administration is still fully free to choose the buyer of companies. If I focus first on point 1; that is, the representatives of the staff of the Supervisory Board. As present Members, you know, in the United Left last February, we introduced a new law in SDH that would give employees in state-owned enterprises half the representatives in the SDH supervisory council. At that time, we predicted that this half of the representatives would be appointed by the Joint Council of all employees working in state-owned companies under the auspices of SDH, and that this would only appoint workers to the Supervisory Board, and they would also appoint the Labour Director of SDH. Thus, we would have all the rights belonging to employees under the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in the Management of Businesses. We are convinced that such a supervisory board, in which half of the employees in these companies would be in these companies, would never appoint staff such as, say, Marko Jazbec, at the same time, we are convinced that we would also immediately resolve an administration that would act as eloquently against public interest as it did in Luka Koper. Last year, the coalition rejected this proposal and we have received assurances from the Secretary of State in his departure, Mr Draganje, that the Government will propose its form of representation of SDH employees. Given the general anti-working situation of this government, especially Prime Minister Cerar, we do not believe that this will happen, but we have our own solution, namely that, instead of the newly established SDH Joint Workers' Council, the SDH should simply appoint representatives to the SDH Supervisory Board of Representatives of Trade Unions. This solution is much simpler than our original proposal and would be equally effective. These members of the Supervisory Board, said to be appointed by representative trade unions, would have more than 100,000 workers and a whole union organisation. However, we know that such a supervisory council would be the nightmare of politicians who think that employees should not have words in the management of businesses and the state, and unfortunately the current Prime Minister Miro Cerar is also among them. That's another thing. Consent of the National Assembly on privatisation. The predecessor has already said something about this, but I will repeat that in the United Left we have always opposed the privatisation of state-owned enterprises because they are destroying both jobs and opportunities for development. In this mandate we have seen the case of Helios, we have seen a typical example of domestic suppliers being kicked out in Mercator, we see an eclectic case of the neglect of the company in Ljubljana Aerodrome, where, if the company remained in state hands, with its own savings of Ljubljana Aerodrome and already provided European funds, it would now be the second terminal, and so the German Fraport does not intend to invest in passenger or freight traffic. These are the immediate consequences of the privatisation that we were alerting at the time. In addition, in the new SDH Act of February this year, we proposed that, following the example of many other countries, including Norway, which was mentioned, consent should be given to the privatisation of at least major enterprises by the National Assembly. While we are not making illusions here that the coalition would oppose privatisation, it is this coalition that has adopted a list of privatisations on which 46 companies are for full sale, while at the same time this coalition is adopting, for example, a novelty of the Slovenian Railways Act, which allows for the sale of 49% of the freight transport of the Slovenian Railways, but, if agreed by the National Assembly, privatisations would be at least minimally transparent and the public would be presented with at least minimal arguments as to why it is worth doing something. At the same time, we should not refer to some autonomy of the supervisory board and the administration of SDH, because we do not forget, this is the primary political decision, what we will sell and what not, it is not decided by the supervisory board or the SDH administration, this is a direct instruction from the government by consent or at least by the agreement of the coalition in order to make this sale of state property on the list. If we had at least this minimum safeguard to ensure that each, at least a greater privatisation, should be decided in the National Assembly, we would ensure at least a minimum of transparency and the responsibility of national ownership management. Now, if I define myself to the amendments and to the articles proposed. In the United Left, we will support the amendment of the Non-Aligned to Article 1. The purpose of this amendment is clear; the sale of the State share must be determined by SDH to whom it sells it at all. If SDH does not have this information, it cannot assess whether the tenderer will fulfil the contractual obligations. Recently, we have seen the case of Paloma, where SDH chose a known buyer, I stress the well-known one, and he withdrew from the signed contract in the first few cases. In this case, the buyer was unreliable, not only in cases where the buyer is not known or we do not even know who is behind some straw companies. The amendment of the coalition, which was adopted by the committee, would unfortunately destroy this solution. In the face of a proposal from the coalition, SDH will itself prescribe how it will determine ownership, while it should not violate business practices. Here I see how you will sell us, as business practices, that today it is normal for companies that take over certain state-owned companies to set up a dedicated company and cover up ownership. This may be common today, but this is about jobs in this country, this is about the development of the most important companies in this society, and therefore we cannot agree to such low standards, even if it seems common to anyone today. The amendment of the coalition is therefore unacceptable to us, but we will certainly support the amendment of the Non-Aligned. Among other things, because it obliges buyers who purchase strategic or important companies to take over to meet the objectives of the national governance strategy. Unfortunately, the governance strategy is quite unusable because it does not even have the indicative objectives of maintaining the number of jobs to be pursued by state-owned enterprises and a whole range of provisions that are not enforceable, but nevertheless. We will support this because, however, a poorly defined public interest is still better than a fully undefined and unlimited private interest. We'll have at least some minimum items here that we can refer to. Now, if I move on to paragraphs 2 and 4 and the amendments. I do not think that I am overreacting if I say that the vote on the amendment of the coalition to Article 4 will in fact be a vote on the non-trust or trustee to the current SDH supervisory council. The proposal of the Non-aligned foresees that Members themselves could propose the discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board. At the moment, only the Government has this authority, and if the amendment of the coalition is adopted, we will not be given this opportunity until one year. Thus, the purpose of this amendment is obvious; if the coalition amendment is voted, Mr Belic and the supervisors will remain in their positions for at least another year and we will be able to vote on them when this story with Luka Koper, which they have cooked, is long forgotten. So the coalition would like to sit in two chairs again somehow. On the one hand, we would support the proposal, but with delay, which does not allow what we want to do. This is to make it clear that the current composition of the Supervisory Board has completely mismanaged state assets. In the United Left, we cannot be satisfied with just accepting Mark Jazbec’s resignation for two reasons. The Management Board has taken all decisions collectively and the Supervisory Board has supported it. If I mention only two cases, the first one is NLB. The SDH Supervisory Board addressed the appointment of members of the new NLB Supervisory Board at its meeting on 21 April this year and stated, quote, "that the appointment of all new members of the NLB Supervisory Board has been carried out in accordance with the prescribed candidate procedures, legislation and regulations in this area" – the end of the quote. Well, Minister Klemenčič, Minister of the Government, stated on 3 June that this procedure, I quote, "as the former President of the Anti-Corruption Commission cannot possibly agree". So we have the SDH Supervisory Council, which says everything is okay, and we have the former President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, the current minister in this same government, who says he can't agree with this at all. But in the end, what the Governing Council said was true; it is said that everything was fine and the caravan went on. However, the second case is the early replacement of the Porte Koper Supervisory Board, which was considered an introduction to the change of administration. SDH and the Government have practically every day invented another reason for the suspension, but the real reason is clear and simple from the start: the current administration has strong support for employees and together in Luka Koper opposes the government's public-private partnership project for the second track. This project is harmful because it is virtually impossible under normal circumstances. Not one railway in Europe has been built this way. The only way to realize this project is to grant public concessions to private investors or directly privatise Luke Koper. It is no coincidence that on Monday, Prime Minister Cerar asked our extraordinary question whether he guaranteed that Luka Koper would retain all the concessions he had until 2043, he did not want to answer. And, of course, the SDH Supervisory Board at its meeting on 30 June, even at the time of Luke's blockade, found that, I quote, "the reasons for the SDH administration's renewal of the Port Koper Supervisory Council are justified". End of quote. If I move slowly to the conclusion. The United Left will, of course, vote against the government amendment and I repeat again: today we will essentially vote on the non-trust of the Supervisory Council and the administration of SDH. We voted against the current team proposed by the Government last year, but we did not imagine that it would actually lead such a flawed policy so uncompromisingly. That is why I am today calling on all Members of the sea, especially the Members of the SD and Desus, to vote against the amendment and thus give us the opportunity to make the necessary conversion in the management of state property before everything is lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u87	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u88	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The fact is that the management of state property under this government is catastrophic. That's what the facts tell us. This means SDH, Slovenian State Holding, has temporary leadership. Our largest bank, which is just before privatisation, is without a complete supervisory board, today the Minister of Finance has resigned and the Secretary of State in charge of the administration of state property has resigned. This means that these are probably valid enough reasons for allowing myself to use this term, that the management of state property is catastrophic. If we go to this proposal for a law proposed by the proposer, I think that we have been on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which dealt with the first part of this law, I would say that we have witnessed one blemish. That is, that the coalition was actually wrong about the vote, because if you did not make the mistake of knowingly voting, I almost hope that you are crazy to support such an article. I think this debate was very rough, and here I would say, I also supported the law proposed by the proposer, even at first and second. Article, even with this replacement of the Supervisory Board or the proposal to replace the Supervisory Board, but now we have before us, given this mascot allowed by the Coalition, a law that has no tail or head. Personally, I can't support such a marriage. Here the coalition has cooked a lot of porridge, just as you cook it in the management of state property, so you have it in this law. I would certainly say that the coalition is aware of the mistakes it has made, but now it will propose an amendment to this law, so that this amendment and the amendment will only take effect one year from now. Respected and respected, in the event that we confirm this law today, we will come to such a legal void that the National Assembly has probably not seen before, for then we will accept that the replacement of the Supervisory Council may be proposed by the Government or the National Assembly. To me, on an explicit question, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly had not been able to answer the committee as to what the National Assembly meant. What is this National Assembly? Is it even possible for a secretary general or a member of the National Assembly to do so? Is that one or more Members? And I really don't understand the coalition that you have so resisted this proposal that at least 10 members of the National Assembly could propose the replacement of the Supervisory Council, because the conditions have not changed. I think that the proposer here was in the right direction to do this, because I'm sure that if someone suggests someone, then they can also propose his withdrawal. But I'm afraid I'm not going to back this marriage because that would be embarrassing. We already have catastrophic governance and if we are to adopt such bad laws, then I think we will also have to take responsibility for poor governance of state property by Members and Members. And my support will not be seen today. But the fact is another thing, I think that changes are needed here, and I think it would make sense, at the latest in September, to get a change and supplement to the Slovenian State Holding Act, where all of these today's emphasis on this debate and proposals would be meaningfully included in this law. However, I personally think it is most important that the coalition and, of course, the government accept the fact that it is necessary to change the governance strategy of the state holding company, which is written in a flawed, inconsistent way, but above all that it has now been shown in practice that what we have pointed out in adopting the governance strategy of the state property, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, has now proved to be a reality. And I appeal both to the coalition and to the Government, so that in September in the National Assembly, when we start working again on vacations, we can make the Slovenian State Holding Act a priority with additions and changes while the revised State Property Management Strategy comes along. I also call on the coalition to consider also the composition of the Supervisory Board, because I am sure that the position should have its representative in the Supervisory Council under the same conditions as the other members of the Supervisory Board. Here, I think that the applicant is also responsible, because it was during the time of her government that this provision in the Slovenian State Holding Act was deleted. Once again, I cannot support this law alone, in particular because of such an irregular provision, and respected, why should we adopt such a law when there is a provision then that the law enters into force only one year from now. I mean, there's got to be one here, I apologize to the expression, but the one you're gonna be here today is crazy about me that this thing is going on. [[…]] I really recommend that we be aware here that a big mistake has been made, and I think that, with even greater error, we cannot correct this error, but that we should vote against it, and in September here this coalition – if you last until autumn – prepare a quality law along with the opposition, both the Slovenian State Holding Act and, above all, the strategy. I think today is a waste of time for us to discuss this proposal, which is actually crazy, for another three hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u89	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. As an MP or as a proponent? As a Member of Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you. In fact, my colleague told me the point was that you completely changed the proposal – I am talking about the coalition, of course, about SMC, Desus and SD – although our proposal basically got, I think, 70 votes of all, from left to right. No one was against it and no one abstained. With your amendments you have actually made a perfect victory, nothing serves, now you are just looking for a way out, because it is probably hard to reject the law in the second reading if he received so much support in the first reading. Even in our parliamentary group, no matter how much we have proposed, we reserve our votes in favour of at least accepting our two amendments. Otherwise, the coalition should really adopt a law that is nothing like nothing. Since we are now talking about the amendment to Article 1, I will read that you will all know; all of you, including those accompanying this meeting, are not in favour of what the Modern Centre Party in particular does not support. We add two points to Article 15, "The Slovenian state holding company must ensure that the ownership of another owner is known and in official records, such as the Register of Justice and Apes, is verifiable when selling investments. In cases where the other owner is a dedicated company, the ownership of that company and its parent companies must be clearly demonstrated. SDH must ensure that all stages of investment sales, in accordance with Article 31 of this Law, can be subsequently verified." And you're against it. Great! And the next new paragraph. "In the course of the sale of the investment share, which is defined by the strategy as important or strategic, it is necessary to ensure that the objectives set out in the strategy and the annual investment management plan are met after the sale of such a share." To the strategy you have adopted in this National Assembly, you are insufferably proud, madly good you say. The port of Koper is the first time since Slovenia exists, according to your definition as strategic. But if you go looking for a concessionaire and in the way that Minister Gasperšič says, which, until September at least, remains a minister, then the new strategic partner who will enter Luka Koper will be able to work beyond these objectives, beyond the objectives set out in the strategy. That's it! And let everyone know what you will vote against in a transparent way – how already – ethically, morally, otherwise than until now [[…]] It's true, it's different, you just haven't told people how it's gonna be different. So Slovenian companies have become self-service companies, where you come and take what you want. It's so different! Read the amendments and say one bad thing in this text! Nothing that guarantees the opposition, no privilege, but SDH is required to ensure to everyone, all Slovenes and Slovenians to whom you sell our companies. Tell me! So tell me who you sold Adria to, and tell me who you sold Paloma – owners, no company names – and tell me who you sold the NKBM to, if you know! You don't know! Because there are financial funds in the back or in the front, there's nothing in the back or we don't know what it is. And that's the problem, and that's what we're trying to prevent with this amendment. People are seeing more and more what they bought in these last elections, exactly two years ago. So they can say that the box or the bag of surprises quickly opened up and showed that it was more or less empty. But while we're here, as long as we're here, colleagues and colleagues, let's work for the good of the people. Nothing! Once again, none of this has the opposition, absolutely nothing, but also guarantees you, as well as you, to keep your face clean towards the Slovenes and Slovenians, so that you can tell them who we sold these companies to. For the time being, everything sold under your government is unknown. No one. If anyone asks me, I don't know. Do you know who owns Apollo? Do you know who owns some kind of miracle fund? I think K4 bought Adrio. Do you know? Can you tell people? No! No! That's not right, that's not right. It's simple; it's not right!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u91	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. When we are talking about the Slovenian State Holding and when we are talking about the management of state property in particular, there is actually a very topical question here, who is running this property today. Does the Slovenian state holding company actually manage this property or is it actually managed by someone else? It is my opinion that it is not transparent and that it is not clear from the actions and events that are taking place in this country that the Slovenian State Holding is actually managing this property. Why not, but there are other questions, and why not, but here is the current issue that the Prime Minister has also mentioned, in short, about the Mafia and so on, who actually works here. But even if it doesn't, it doesn't actually happen. According to the law, Slovenian State Holding is the one who can change supervisory councils in those companies that belong to the Slovenian State Holding. That's impossible. He can't do that! He can't do that in Luka Koper. Someone else can do that, I guess. Whether it occurs to select such candidates for the largest Slovenian bank, which simply does not go through the procedures it has for banks, as members of the Supervisory Board at Banka Slovenije banks. As a result, the first question at these events is who is the one who manages Slovenian state property. Sorry, I don't know that today. Maybe the government knows that, maybe the President of the Government knows that, and now he knows that, and when he talks about all these different associations and so on, he would be right to actually say it. However, as is evident from the media, as is evident from the information circulating, there is probably a lot of this. And that's bad. This is bad for a country that has a strong share of state ownership compared to other countries. A strong state stake. Basically, if we have a strong state share, appetite is also very large and it is questionable to manage without a political component. Why? The government is political, the government is always political after the constitution, the government is political and the government is also a assembly of companies. The highest body is the Assembly in the company and the Government is the Assembly. Here we can help ourselves more or less verbally with different expressions of corporate governance and so on and so on, which may even be pleasant for the Slovenian public, but of course we do not know about the background and do not know what is happening. But in every case like this, something unusual happens, something, if you want, you can also get suspicious, something that's not in line with expectations, what's actually going to happen. For example, we sell Slovenian banks to so-called dedicated companies because it is in the world and Europe, as has been said on one of the committees by representatives of the Slovenian State Holding, modern – if you wish – or the most favourable, or the most optimal from a financial point of view, or at least the risks to the buyer in this case. In other words, what this dedicated company is now; it is a company set up for relatively small money in a favourable financial-tax country for relatively small money – means that for a few thousand or some ten thousand euros you can set up a company and buy this company for example NKBM or Adrio. In fact, this company does not have capital, this company probably does not have enough money in its account to have someone come to this company to pay for coffee or mineral water. No, it's not. However, it has a relationship with the company, if you want the mother, with the main company that lends her loans, corporate loans, and this company has to pay this larger company, to this financial fund, if you want, to pay interest and this interest will be paid by this company in a way that this income is derived from the company's actual purchase. This is how money is spilled at different rates, for example in tax legislation, this is very well described when what interest is counted among expenditure and which is not and so on. In short, this is simply a spillover of that profit of the purchased company to a mother company that is back in another country. I mean, after all this is completely legal, legitimate, and so on, the problem with Slovenia's management strategy is that this has become a model for Slovenia. That this became a model for Slovenia and that NKBM was the only bank in Europe in the last period sold to such a financial fund in Europe. Because even in Europe, banks are looking for a strategic partner. For example, if you want, even in Austria, Raiffeisen Bank will take over the Union of Banks, say. They're both banks. But there it is, it seems. There it is possible that a larger bank will take over a smaller bank and so on. We probably can't do that. Or, I don't know, we're all in the European Union. This first amendment is, of course, desirable, it is one who will sort of regulate it and who will not eventually prevent it, but will actually show at least that we will know who we are actually selling it to. Nor will this amendment solve the issue of state ownership and the issue of State ownership via the Slovenian State Holding Group or through any other group. These are large and appetites are large and today they are appetites for these 13 or 12 billion, as is the case in the Slovenian State Holding – I think this is much less, these are bookkeeping values, but still billions that appetites are large for third, fourth, fifth privatisation. I have nothing against privatisation, but if it is simply transparent and is purchased, if you want, even with some cash from this owner, not only through credits. Because if it is through credit, sooner or later these interest rates will have to be paid on the basis of the profits of the target company; and here, in fact, this is bad. That's purely economic logic. I think that even as long as we still have so much property and so much property in various areas, we will also have a lot of problems with this property if so much property remains state-owned. I think we should actually set up some right and some good model here in order to become a certain property also private, but we're not lucky here. We have no luck before, in my personal opinion, Aukn and I have no luck, nor was Mercator a problem to say, but why, so on and so forth, politics interfered with this sale – yes or no, constantly, and that is why one President of the New Ljubljana Bank, President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, resigned at that time and so on. [[…]] In short, we have the same problems with this state property all the time. Of course, we think it's people's property, and here some of you also say it's people's property. But people don't feel this property. They can't see, they can't feel. This could be pure fantasy that it's from people. After all, the management of these companies is such that they do not have much of it. Finally, of course, today we are talking about a law that is not the law, we are talking about an illegal law. If this goes into effect in one year, look, it's just a time bypass made to fix this whole thing by then. Another was not possible, so she put an amendment through which all of this will now be postponed, and through which you will then have one year of time to prepare all of this. But here, in fact, it is an absurd situation and even a pure rationality that such a law will actually be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u93	I'm asking if you'd like to discuss this further. Please, for your application. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. I wanted to get involved in the debate on the grounds that I would, however, point out that people can feel this property if we decide to do so and properly organise the management of state property. This moment, as organised in the Slovenian State Holding, because things are happening within the supervisory board, within the administration, of course this is what people and people feel only through commitments and through cuts in contributions, so as to make it easier for them if they are in trouble with life. But if we change the way state property is managed in a way that people feel about it, then we need to set up a demographic fund. The demographic fund is the one that can manage these 11 billion assets and funds from this management go into the pension system. Once it goes into the pension system, however, the interest of both young and active and of course older people, who are already in this system, is that these pensions are appropriate and, above all, we are burdening the budget, which provides 1.5 billion, say, for the pension system. And that's when the funds for investment are released, people's standards are improved. In short, it is necessary to change the way state property is managed in a way that people will have some of it, and the demographic fund is the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u95	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u96	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Secretary of State and all others gathered! Governance of state property is one of the cancers of our country and many rightly wonder who is actually recruiting, who is actually managing this property. If we look at the events in the past two years, from Telekom forward, and this peak of this pyramid of staffing with NLB supervisors, you will soon find that you have absolutely nothing to do with this recruitment and have nothing to do with the President of the Government or have so much to do with how others have taken over and are working. And this is the mob the Prime Minister was talking about. Now you have only two options: either you leave this mob for the next two years, like you left now for two years, or you start cutting her wings. With this amendment to the law, which has been amended or amended by the committee, these fins will continue to allow this mafia to wander around the Slovenian economy, nothing else. All the problems the Government has in managing state property are reflected in events in Luka Koper. In fact, there is a lack of functioning of SDH in practice – what we are talking about all the time. And the Slovenian State Holding Act is precisely why thorough ventilation is needed; Luka Koper, NLB is showing us why. Clearly, then, in our country, an entity called for the management of the property of all citizens may be blocked by certain influential circles in the decision-making process. In fact, we have a Slovenian state holding company which is supposed to manage state property, but cannot fulfill its will, its strategy, its intentions in the company in question. We have such a national asset manager. But I don't know who else can help us, and that's why I'm saying that SDH, in the case of Luke Koper, capitulated on the whole line; completely. The will of the Government has also been literally blocked here, and the inability of the Slovenian State Holding to decide and enforce its role, it seems, has not entirely even disturbed the Government, which was, of course, the first responsible for the resolution of such an abnormal situation and the thing continued, the thing went on. For this reason, ask yourself, for once, a coalition, who actually is in charge, who is in fact in the background and why you allow it. Why do you let that happen? Today we do not actually have administrators, we do not have a financial minister with full powers or full appointment, if you want to in the National Assembly, the Secretary of State has also resigned, named for it, NLB – at the end of 2017 we have to sell it. The very way we're going to sell it is, in my opinion, wrong. So the 75% share or this difference will be looked for in an IP way, we will not look for a strategic owner, a co-owner, but we will look again for some marginal owners, but things will be going in the wrong direction without completely conceptualizing who will in fact be the new owners: financial funds or those citizens and citizens who in fact have enough money and will want to get a share in the New Ljubljana Bank through various ways. And there are anomalies. One such thing as lack of vision and will in SDH is, for example, selling to companies, straw owners. K4 was mentioned earlier. We cannot sell one Slovenian company to a company in a tax haven which was established only 2 days earlier, just 2 days before the invitation to tender or the intention to sell this company was issued. Isn't that a little weird? Isn't that a little weird? For this reason, I have already advocated on the committee a review of the companies, which you have now, since this meeting, overturned this concept, completely. The verification of the companies to which we sell could be more appropriate, but not so, the previous form of Article 7 was much more appropriate than the new definition of the verification itself. [[...]] Calling off is also one of the novelties of the new law, which is called calling off by the National Assembly. That's a possibility. In practice, it can be very difficult to understand, but given the way and functioning of the Slovenian State Holding in the last 2 years, we should come to this possibility. You should come. After all the anomalies we have witnessed in the case of the recruitment of the New Ljubljana Bank, Luke Koper, the National Assembly should have this opportunity. You should have this option, because it appears that the government is not responding to the key problems we are dealing with. From the very beginning, I have the impression that in fact the government has failed to rule the lobby, and it is only a matter of time before it all collapses itself. How much longer will you allow them to or will allow you to continue to do so? The key to all of this is what will be the power of the policy below. This amendment to the law, if adopted in such a form as has been amended by the members of the coalition, does not bring any new innovations, nor does it bring greater transparency, which should be one of the principles when we talk about the management of state assets and transparency is too often violated. Privatisation, I think that the end of this whole story will be when we actually decide to go in the process of finding responsible owners for our companies; not in the bad form that some of you are taking privatisation, but in the search for responsible owners. That will be the end of these anomalies that we are witnessing to today. And Luka Koper – this is also true for her when you say that this is our strategic investment. Take her somewhere — one that destroys the government if you want. We're talking privatisation, so you won't think wrong. One of you is taking privatisation for acceptance. This is a key problem when we sell businesses to financial funds or straw companies from tax havens without review. If the amendments tabled are not adopted, at least to a certain extent, we will not be able to support this law in Novi Slovenija, despite the proposal's good intentions. But such a law as it is now is a big step away from the original form that was put into it. I wonder who it is in the interest that the law actually enters into force within one year of today's adoption, but we need it now. That's all I'm asking. Somebody answer me. Why, after one year of law enforcement, procedures or sales or the search for responsible owners or personnel will continue to take place. I don't see why it wouldn't come into force, I don't know, the next day, within 15 days. That would make sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u97	He has the word of Dr. Ange Logar, and I congratulate him on this title.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you, President. I think that in this Chamber, although there are relatively few Members, we do not find a person who would put up a good word for the management of state property. The law was adopted in 2012 and I do not know, four years later, we do not have a representative or any strong supporter who could present the positive features of the management of the current administration and supervisory board of SDH to the Slovenian public. I don't think Mr. Drago can do that either. Look, the Minister of Finance has resigned today, and as an opposition Member, I can say quite a few good things about the Minister of Finance, Mr Marble. An excellent professor, the Ministry of Finance, with a high-level investigative committee, and every time all the documents we asked for – he gave up! Look, here we have governance of state property, for which we do not find a good word, and there is no change in sectoral legislation, but there is no change in the regulatory basis that would allow for more effective governance of state property. If something's wrong, fix it. The Banking Act went through several novelties because it was found that some things were subordinated, poorly solved, that new sites had been found by those who wanted to look for them, and appropriate solutions had to be proposed. Now we've figured out a while back that SDH's not working. We have already warned you about this at the time of the appointment of the Governing Council. The opposition, I think, made it clear at that time that the Supervisory Board was inadequate to manage and manage SDH administration. You didn't listen to us, and then there were consequences. It was called such an SDH administration, which would not have been possible in any EU country that went through bank recovery, but it did, under this government. Well, then again, we have the consequences of such a decision. And he continues to be troubled by insistence on a bad solution. Personally, I must admit I have a dilemma. In fact, I don't understand the ruling coalition, or I'm not up to this logic, which obviously translates the ruling coalition, or is there something wrong with me that I don't understand this brilliant logic that we're now following with this law, the new law on SDH. Look, just to make it very simple. The opposition party, because of all the anomalies, proposes some amendment to the SDH Act, which would introduce an important democratic supervisory mechanism also to the National Assembly. At first reading, although the Government opposes, here, by consensus with 70 votes, we support this solution. In the first reading. And let's get her to another reading. Then I do not understand where the continuation of this logic is; then the government coalition opposes the majority in one amendment, which completely illogically solves the matter and supports it. See what the Legal and Legislative Service has told you about the matter you have allowed to change the SDH novel. In fact, "with the proposed amendment of Article 44, the National Assembly will not be able to apply the resolution regime on its own initiative in its decision to recall the members of the Supervisory Board, so it should also be re-examined as to whether the proposed solution is feasible at all". Look, you left the only solution in the law change that's not feasible, but you took everyone else out. Once again, explain to me, explain to me and to two million or to a million 999 thousand Slovenes where the logic of such a decision is. And to make the matter even worse, this incompetence will then be further refined by a one-year notice period, if I can call it that, in just one year from now, it will come into effect. Why don't you give me 10 years? I'm asking why you don't give me 10 years. Look, we had a cadastral income in this session where you found the solution to enforce, I don't know, three years from now. This has apparently become a habit of this government — one year from now you will introduce it. In an interview, the distinguished president of the National Assembly said that SMC would be in power for 12 years. Look, if you give a 10-year deadline, just as your era at the head of this country is over, this new SDH novel will be established and the next government will be to blame. Isn't that nice? See, this happened already with Svetlik's law, when the social state dropped dramatically, and then the burden of all of this fell on Janša's government in 2012. At the time, it was the same two-year transitional period. To me, explain to a simple citizen the whole logic of this kind of policy-making! Because I just don't see any normal logic going on with such decisions. And then, corporate governance. See when the discussion on when SDH, the SDH leadership, with the proposal for the replacement of supervisors, completely burned and set the Slovenian coastal area on fire, Luka Koper, when there was almost a rebellion. On this committee, the outgoing president of SDH said to me why they withdrew this proposal when everything was burning, that he withdrew it because of the crane closure. Do you imagine this government property management? You've got a suggestion, it's supposed to be very well supported, so you can convince even your own supervisory board, and then you'll withdraw this proposal because of the cranes. I don't know, there are quite a few trucks in Slovenia, a few cars, a few cars, so in all the state-owned companies that have heavy machinery, SDH won't be able to implement its will – or how? Only one truck or one wagon will be brought to the left or to the right and SDH will withdraw its proposals. How do you imagine managing state property like that? And if this is what the modus operandi was made with now and if the outgoing SDH CEO admitted it, why would another company do otherwise because we are all homo economists. So if you bring in the cranes, they won't stop you. Bring the crane if you don't have it and buy it! I'm saying you're making socks, which is because you can't stop the government's arrival or SDH delegation with your socks and buy, I don't know, a water cannon or one other heavy mechanism that will stop the arrival. Look, we've come up with such trivial cases in the management of state property. And then I need someone else here to defend my government's property management! The government, which was in its original form, in its first reading good and well-directed, also received broad support, is now completely unrecognizable at this second stage; I don't know, legislative packages! It brings nothing, saves nothing, is even more impossible, but at the same time, this incompetence translates for another year. And let's say the government, although this is some strange piece of legislation, is rejecting this kind of acceptance by reasoning that in this way the independence of the SDH supervisory board is being undermined, because it is an essential component of the independence principle of the SDH Law minus one OECD guidelines and corporate governance in general. See, now you explain to me; the government refers to the independence of SDH, corporate governance and so on. When it burned the most, the vice-president of this government went to the administration of Luke Koper and supported it in a mustache of the SDH administration's decision. Is this not political interference with SDH's independent work and corporate governance? Or isn't that? If the Vice-President of the Government comes with a counter proposal, when it is the worst-fired one, he will support the administration against the one who is to manage state property far or independently for the purposes of the State and for the good of the State. And go ahead. When we had the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, Mr Jazbec said that 15 minutes before he resigned, he had spoken on the phone with the President of the Government. Wait, why? Why is that? Who's that? Has Mr. Jazbec called the Prime Minister of the Government or has the President of the Government called Mr. Jazbec? Which way did the communication go? But it is very strange that Mr Jazbec has spoken to the Prime Minister of the Government, although SDH is independent, but at the same time has not informed his superior, i.e. the supervisor. Because you know, in that response, Mr Belic said he was surprised at this decision. So, we have alleged independent corporate governance by SDH, and the SDH CEO is consulting with the Prime Minister of the Government, who publicly says he doesn't know anything, and the SDH supervisor actually doesn't know anything, and he's surprised that his boss, or the head of the institution he's overseen, has resigned. Once again, I ask you whether anyone in this Chamber is capable of telling me any positive management of state property. Can anyone tell me, huh? On the government side, there is one replica, so one argument will be – I am grateful for the fact that I hope to understand the whole dimension of this specialty of managing independent governance with state assets. Once again, if something doesn't work, it has to be changed. Here was a proposal in the first reading that promised a change, but what has now arisen is not worth supporting in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u99	Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor. Then he'll check in. You can check in sooner. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you. Looks like we're gonna have to wait for the next speaker for these positive stories. We are still in this first article and this amendment. In my opinion, it is said that legitimate interest is being pursued, meaning that it would be known, or that it would be verifiable, and that it would be traceable to whom an asset, which would be state or decided to sell to whom it was sold. Is there any 100 percent identification of the buyer today in these times - I don't think so. The more it is defined in the law and complicated, what and how it should be, I think a general provision is sufficient here and then regulated further in a regulation that is a relatively flexible document, which is given according to the needs – in this sense improving not making it worse – to adjust that there is always a finding of who would be behind it, in my view, a more appropriate approach. Because I think that one of the risks that exist and have been exposed here in this house, in particular, that certain money that has gone from this country has started to come back through various funds, through whatever else, because it is always possible; it is said that someone can always hide to come back and then try again to make money on this property. Then it goes on to write here, as far as the proposals are concerned, as far as this audit trail is concerned and so on. This one has to be, no matter what. Just as the law is established and the company must act in these matters, this trail must be provided at all stages of sales, because if it does not somehow deviate from the principle of transparency. From here on out, if I'm going somehow to those other things that concern unhappy or happy article two. My view is that, in a way, I understand, this is said by the proposer or the proposer that she came with this proposal to have an influence on the National Assembly. But it seems to me on the basis of a few examples, even though this is already more than one, that there may be some, perhaps an inappropriate solution. That's what I thought when I voted on this committee. Why? Especially because of the fact that what has now been in the media is such a solution to the State Assembly without, say, some critical mass or no 60 Members, when it comes to voting on the possible resolution of the supervisory board, so that there is no political game going on here. It is obvious that these tools we have are the rules of democracy, at least in Slovenia, that all the resources are used if they are available. It makes sense that if there is such a solution in marriage, it will be exploited. And just as in some cases we are talking again, again, again and again and again, and they are not able to be limited by the end of the Rules of Procedure, and in this way also the poor end of the debate in this house, we are repeating ourselves in the same things, instead of opening up those problems that are really neat, it would be again one of them; but when a society that has 12 billion assets under it, virtually all supervisors would hold their hand on the hooks, whether they will go out today or tomorrow, and in this way it is simply impossible to work. Further, where I see a problem in this, I'm sure he's responsible. Responsibilities in this regard, such as proposals, verifications of candidates, have been given to the Government, and also responsibility for the resolution of them, or for the release of a proposal. In order for more players to make that decision, then they will say, as is the case with us now, that they have been confirmed by the National Assembly, we will say that you have proposed them. When the number of those who can propose calls increases, somehow the responsibility or attention of the one who is actually responsible for it withdraws. And the government, on their own behalf – it is their duty to rule. The transfer of certain functions to the National Assembly, except in some exceptional cases when there is a real situation — to which we may even be approaching — may well be. However, a sufficient limit must be in view of how many people can propose this, as much as such a difference can be made, such a measure of possible resolution, confirms, must be sufficiently protected so as not to introduce instability. Because this is an institution that, as I understand it, will have to have a high reputation in due course, even though it is beautiful with certain actions — I can say — and will probably have to do much more. On the other hand, what has been said before: this strong state share of property and so on; this is the fact that Slovenia has a relatively large share of property, and the fact is that the statistics available do not allow me to be compared by countries, because a number of countries hide it in some other, third, fourth-ranking government, which statistics do not cover, so a foreign country can buy it from us, our company, and it is not a problem, and so on and so on. Even recently, I don't know, it's been exposed specifically to the media, not to our own, that, say, the Swiss Central Bank has 120 billion assets in the shares of companies. It's a highly liquid asset, but 120 billion is not that small. Well, there are different ways in which a given asset can be held under the influence of the State, and until we have some good statistics available, as much as a country actually has directly and indirectly owned, it is difficult to use such arguments when we talk about who controls what and how it controls. Previously, one of these was interesting, one who calls and gives instructions to someone. I think that if such a debate were to be opened once separately, there would probably be something even more interesting about past behaviours and events than letting someone know about something that is already a practical fact; 11 minutes before it makes a move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u101	First of all, she's a proponent. The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u102	So be it, President. Anyway, I wanted a replica, but it's okay. In fact, what we have just heard is interesting, for the first time from the coalition's mouth, that the government is responsible for what is happening at SDH. Yes, I deeply agree! After all, there are procedures in the rules of procedure for replacing the government and we can do this very quickly. True, I agree, the only problem is that when the Prime Minister comes here, he says he has nothing to do with it. The Minister of Finance says that you set up supervisors in the Slovenian state holding company, which he eventually holds. You've pressed for and now even if you disagree with their work, you don't have a chance to replace it. But for this perhaps once again to my friend Christmas, if I understand correctly that he is appealing to us in some way, that instead of trying to ensure that the National Assembly too – those of us who are, I apologize, those who have put people there, could be replaced by the ignorant, unwell, not to say any more work; you tell me not; replace the government that is responsible for everything that is happening in the Slovenian State Holding. That's a good theory, too. On the other hand, we are still talking about the amendment to Article 1. The State which sells the company also has the right to demand that the buyers be disclosed. If they don't want to, they just won't, they can't get to the state property. They can't. You put this as a condition in the invitation. Pika! And that's our condition. The one who decides to sell the apartment, the house, the car, too, sets the conditions under which it will do so, if these conditions are not met, things are not sold. This is very simple and that is all we want to ensure with this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u103	Since I saw earlier that there is still an interest in the debate, please apply. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, President. I think I have been summoned by my fellow Member on two matters. Depends on the time. And then I'd like to have some explanation. I assess, doctor, if I may say so, that you are very bright, intelligent and in your debates, if I may say so, skillfully chosen cases, appropriate words, and I am sure that when you ask in a certain context the question that you know the answer very well. What I wanted to mention in this context, when you said, is whether anyone knows the answers to any questions. I myself do not wish to appear here as a Member in the role of a lawyer for those who are competent and appointed to give relevant answers. I believe that, through the competent committees, I am primarily referring to the Committee on Financial Control, that they have been invited and will be invited and will certainly get the right, relevant answers. No matter what you yourself think about a particular matter, I am in this position, as in that introductory debate, allowed myself to comment on or give my view on the management of state property, and I am very firmly in the position that policy should not interfere with the management of state assets and that the Government is responsible for the implementation of the objectives adopted in the State Property Management Strategy, which we have also adopted here in the National Assembly. It surprises me a little, however it may seem, that I have understood from your words the praise of the Minister of Finance, who has resigned, given that a short time ago he has received a number of criticisms. But this is common; when there is a circumstance, then we praise those who are not. Finally, I would like to touch on what you said earlier about Article 2 and that you do not understand how, more then, I will appeal to myself that we have been having a strange or somewhat misunderstanding discussion or making a decision. Nevertheless, I would return to my position, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on feasibility and related to Article 2, and it is right that after I read that I heard what the Legislative and Legal Service wrote down. He said, last sentence: "In this regard, however, the question arises whether the National Assembly will be able to determine whether SDH's management arrangements in the SDH Act and the SDH Act on companies which are subsidized can determine the existence of grounds for recall, so it should also be re-examined that the proposed solution is feasible." I explain to myself this kind of writing that it's inappropriate, so I explain to myself, and it's practically not complete. I have also come from this context both in the debate and in the position I have in relation to this Article 2. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u105	The replica, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you. In fact, I thank the honourable Member for his words, but I repeat again, it is not difficult for me to recognize the quality, and I said that in the former Minister of Finance, I find the quality and count them; he is an excellent lecturer; and when he was a minister, the Ministry of Finance worked very well with the Commission of Inquiry. I say that again, and I think good things need to be stressed. But this does not mean that I cannot be critical of the Minister as an opposition Member. The last thing you said about Article 2 is exactly what I said, yes. By the way, the Law-Legal Service said that what you did, I don't know, by mistake, or by some strange coincidence, or by a string of circumstances, or after a thorough consideration of your decision on the Committee on Finance, you cooked this part of the proposed novel. Exactly what this last sentence says is that, in fact, this solution that you have enacted is not even feasible. And if it's not feasible, look, I don't know why the National Assembly is talking about solutions that aren't feasible. Last but not least, you cited or quoted Mr Kozina's opening statement that the main culprit for the bank hole was the National Assembly due to the loophole in legislation. If you confirm this, you will then adopt the holed legislation yourself; even so hollow that you prefer to postpone it for one year. That's why I'm saying it doesn't make sense to support such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u107	Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u108	Actually, it's more of a replica than anything else. One concerns this property, or disclosure, of who the final owner is. The point is that it is not necessary, even if it is not an enemy takeover or something like that, someone who always wants to buy can hide his identity. And in this context, we need to do everything we can to find out. But it doesn't have to be definitively determined what it is. The current dictatorship, as set out, with an additional rule that will, of course, adapt to the circumstances, is, in my opinion, a sufficient solution. Because if not, we can make 50 additional articles in this law, and we cannot solve it completely. As for the government's responsibility and so on. As you know, SDH has the board of directors, has the board of directors and has a congregation. During the course of action, the government is his congregation, and this is also a responsibility. As far as the role of the National Assembly is concerned, I have said more about the possibility that this may be an instrument that needs to be corrected precisely because it does not bring instability. Such corrections are, first of all, aimed at having, I don't know, 60 votes to what happens, or even some higher rank, I don't know, maybe it's also at 40 votes to start such a procedure, just because an institution can operate as much in peace as it does, because it doesn't always go to change legislation on the basis of individual cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u109	Mag. Alenka Bratušek as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u110	Christmas, you'll probably remember what was on the Committee on Finance. An amendment was proposed to regulate the procedure. Okay, if there were 10 Members who could propose the discharge of the Minister, 10 Members were needed to do so. But in order to propose the discharge of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, it would take 40 of them? Okay, if that's your suggestion. But it's not, you just rejected it, you didn't go in the direction of settling it, but you rejected the amendment that he was editing, and then, hand to heart, mistakenly confirmed the article. But this is, this is a fact, and that is why such an article, which is not really awarded, has not been added, and the amendment and I wanted to finish the article, and the coalition rejected it and approved the amendment or endorsed an article that is, in effect, impossible. But that's, if I say so, your butter, not ours. We wanted to make things right, so now you've arranged it your own way. I agree that it is wrong that only one Member can propose this, is wrong, so our proposal was 10 – you would add 60, 80, 90, whatever you think would be enough, but let's say. No nothing, no nothing! Now to explain to the Slovenian public that there is nothing wrong with managing our assets, and no one believes that. Nobody! And Slovenians and Slovenians are demanding changes. All we wanted was and, by the way, as long as the coalition is solid – we just have the feeling that you're worried that it's not so strong that you can handle it – if you have more than 46 votes, no one can replace you. [[…]] There was little problem in just one interpolation, there was little problem in the other interpolation, and in the SDH control council, I believe that this coalition would be covered. Maybe that's why you're fighting this hard, which is not right. I believe, I believe that a lot of people inside the Modern Center are thinking about this control world, but it's not going to change anything. Things need to be fixed in the right direction. On political involvement in the economy, I think, but this is a bottleneck, which I don't think is even worth discussing. Really. As much as this government, including the President and the people employed in the President's office, is involved in the Slovenian economy, I think there has been no one for a long time. So if you can, if you muster enough courage to change certain things, we will change if the law remains the way it is before us today, including the amendment, to be put into effect in one year's time, and as a proponent, I appeal to everything to reject it. Because he's not worth the reception. The goals that have been considered will not be achieved, and it is indeed a disgrace to the National Assembly to adopt such a law. Read what you left in your marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u111	A representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Method Dragonja, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. First of all, I would like to say that this is a matter of law and that the Government has always represented the view that the proposal is opposed to the law. This was also duly justified both in the first reading and in the working body, as well as in the introduction to the second reading at the plenary session. In particular, the rationale is that it is important to be very careful when it comes to preserving the autonomy and independence of the Slovenian State holding company, because it is difficult processes, sensitive processes, because this is a practice, autonomy in the management of state assets, which has been established around the world as a good practice and recommended by the OECD. The government is not against improvements, increasing transparency, increasing accountability for processes to be carried out effectively. Above all, it is sensitive how it is privatised, that we get good investors and that in the broadest sense, provisions and strategies for state-owned enterprise management are being implemented. Whoever actually manages state property was one of the questions raised here. SDH manages this on behalf of and on behalf of the State, but there is also a whole range of other stakeholders in these processes. In fact, the person who manages the actual state property has proven to be very much in the latter case with respect to Luke Koper, where SDH has in fact proved to have played a foreign role in terms of its influence, irrespective of its owner, the owner's representative. Parole Luke does not give!, Luka is ours!, This is the property that is ours! This is not about the property of all of us, about the state property, but here are our spheres of interest, our monopoly area, and these are the problems we face in this. [[…]] This is not only related to some principled political declarations, it is also linked to the fact that these companies have different interests attached to them, which in a financial sense benefit them. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the amendment was not in line with the basic principles of the Slovenian State Holding Act and in particular the warning that the provisions concerning the withdrawal of members of the Supervisory Board could not be properly implemented, since it is not clear how the reasons for the withdrawals would be assessed. Basic issues, the issue of legal certainty, legal clarity and the fact that the provisions are sufficiently clear, specific and unambiguous. This legal inadequacy, in particular with regard to the discharge of members of the Supervisory Boards, opens up the possibility that proposals will be put forward on the current tape for the resolution of individual members of the Supervisory Boards or of the entire composition and will pose a relatively high risk to the functioning of the Slovenian State Holding. Without the Operational Supervisory Board, the Slovenian State Holding cannot take decisions because the statutory decision is such that for most decisions, but especially for the most important, the Administration needs the approval of the Supervisory Board. This may create paralysis in the functioning of the Slovenian State Holding in the sense of not taking decisions. The question is whether, in the solutions proposed here, such possible consequences were fully aware of, especially given that these procedures regarding discharges in the proposal, as it has now crystallized, are very vague. My assessment is that the National Assembly must adopt good laws, that these laws must confirm legal certainty, that they must contribute in this part to the quality of the management of state property and cannot pass an assessment, but that it is now a law such as, in fact, serving other purposes, in particular, that it can create pressure on its functioning through the constant processes of political exposure of the SDH supervisory board and that the processes being implemented in SDH are effectively blocked through this process, especially to block privatisation. Such difficult privatisation, which is now in the Slovenian State Holding Plan this year, the privatisation of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, in its complexity, in the market conditions in which it will be implemented, is highly volatile, especially in relation to the banking sector, with such potential uncertainty in taking decisions in the Slovenian State Holding, I think it should also be quite clear to the National Assembly that it is very risky to enter into such privatisation with the proposed changes. Because the process is in itself very demanding and we need to draw attention to the consequences that might result from the adoption of this law so that bigger, more important projects can stop us. My assessment is that the law, as it is now through the parliamentary process and the debate in the second reading, is developing what has been determined, what business and procedural options are, is not developing in the right direction and that a very serious consideration is needed whether such a law is supported or not in the second reading. This is the great responsibility of the National Assembly. Once again, the National Assembly must adopt good laws. I hope that we will not be in a position to open up new risks in the functioning of the Slovenian State Holding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u113	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, at least we could have the courage to advise our Members not to support this law if you think it is bad, because this law is really crazy. I didn't mean to call. I said in the first debate that this is a waste of time in this marriage, when I think that the most responsible coalition is that we have one on the table that we have. But in view of the debate of the two Members of the Modern Centre Party, I had to take a call. I will continue to say that the initial amendment to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy was a good one that you rejected. This means that 10 Members can propose to the Government, not to dismiss a member of the Supervisory Board, but to propose to the Government that the National Assembly discuss this. It comes to the National Assembly and to the Government to define it; but of course under the same conditions as the recall of a member of the Supervisory Board. Not by the others. This means that even 10 Members or one Member can't say, look, I don't like this supervisor, but I'm going to propose his discharge. No! No! Under those conditions already in force in the Slovenian State Holding Act. Dear colleague Tillen Christmas said that the number 10 is wrong, that it should be 60. I mean, look at the 46 votes get rid of the government. However, you would like 60 votes for the motion to recall a member of the Supervisory Board. Get real! With 46 votes, this is where the government falls. And you want 60 votes for the discharge procedure to begin. I mean, for me, 10 Members would be quite right; also because the National Assembly approves the members of the Supervisory Board. However, we could continue to make an amendment that the National Assembly needs at least 46 votes in favour. Anything can be done, so I will repeat it again: let us not give support to this law, and a new law or amendment and supplement will come in September. Because I think today's debate has made it clear that there has not been such catastrophic governance of state property as it is under this government. I'm concerned that if this government stays, no change of law will help. Look, you're having problems with human resources in particular and with serious political pressures then on what you call them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u115	Are you applying to a word or a replica? Replica, Mr. Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u116	Replica only for these 60 to submit a proposal or whatever. The following thing I said was that if someone wanted to bring such a solution into law, it was desirable that a possible solution could be confirmed by some appropriate majority and in such a case, say, 60. Not for a proposal! Because that would mean what I know, 60 for the proposal, 91 for the resolution. I mean, that logic doesn't work out. That's all I wanted to explain. Otherwise, on the committee, as you know, I did not agree with this solution and I remain here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u117	Any other discussions? A word as a proponent? No, no, no. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek as a Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u118	Otherwise, I understood the Secretary of State's words as an appeal that he would not accept such a squabble before us today. But clearly it is necessary to say who is to blame for the marriage as it is – the ruling coalition! You've made him who he is. And now, if we all find out that he is bad together, I have already said that, as a proposaler, I suggest that we do not really support him. Such a form cannot and must not be supported. With a one-year delay! That's a lot of fun. If we think about it, let us act immediately and agree: let us draw on the proposal that has been tabled, correct it, amend it before the process of replacing the Supervisory Council is introduced, and move again in September. All together. Just like we did in the first reading. Not a one-year moratorium! Until then, everything will be cleaned up by our companies, which you intend to clean up, and then you will go to the opposition and be able to change control councils as you please. That is exactly how your proposal can be understood. As long as we're in power -- no, we can't do that, but when the story turns around, then we as the opposition can work and propose everything. The amendment was on the table, so don't swindle. It's no big deal. The ruling majority turned him down. Mr Christmas was present, Mr Christmas was not present – it is irrelevant, the result is on the table. The result is on the table and the result is what it is. If you have anything to do with the management of state property turning things around — you can be critical to the past, you can say a lot and probably, unlikely, there must have been a lot of wrong in the past. But what's going on today and what's been going on for the last two years is your responsibility. And you'll have to live with that in the future. For the last two years, you've been responsible for the event. Each week, one affair is connected with the Slovenian State Holding. Every week. Starting with the New Ljubljana Bank and a few days ago ending with Luka Koper. It is good that the summer, that Slovenian state holding may be a little less active, or it will be just in the summer even more active, because it will be possible for the public and also for us to pay a little less attention to his work. Just as he manages his assets today, he's not. In the management of state assets, the government and the coalition lined up. That's a fact. I think you'll find that, too, Members of the Coalition. But it's not enough to just find out, but it takes action and action. If you are going to adopt a law such as this, and even one such as being suspended for one year, it is completely irresponsible. With our amendments, we wish, of course, to do so, because you rejected the amendment in the coalition, we cannot fix it, but we do not need to open it again for a year immediately after this, and we do not need to re-open and regulate it as it would be right for the other two amendments, but at least for the vast majority of us to get things into the basic framework. By not allowing the sending to receive data from the Slovenian State Holding Company, you have already deleted this in one way or another. I don't know what you're afraid of coming to the National Assembly. I really don't know what you're afraid of. We're going with all the Slovenian banks that they have to disclose the data, but you're hiding it now. You are the one who is a member that the Slovenian State Holding must, at the request of Members, at the request of the Committee, provide the data it has at its disposal. This is the transparency of the Modern Centre Party. Unfortunately, no. That's a fact. I hope, I hope, that as soon as possible, at least in Desus and SD, if not already in the Modern Centre Party, we find that what is happening is wrong and not good, and we are not left in this fight, because we are left with nothing else, as if we are standing here and talking, acting in a different way, so we are here, but we are owed and accountable to the Slovenes and Slovenians. That you come with us and that we make a difference in this direction because our companies are not self-service, not the mob, not the tycoons, not anyone. And those are not my words, those are the words of the Prime Minister of the Government, which must be of further concern to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I see that time is almost at the end and I must admit that in these matters it is really a great pleasure to be an opposition Member. First of all, I must tell my respectable colleague immediately, who you have commented on my colleague Tiln, the fact is that you have made the wrong statement, because the proposal that was tabled and is on the home committee was read: Members of the SDH Supervisory Board may, on a proposal from the Government or at the initiative of at least 10 members of the National Assembly, call off the National Assembly. That means it's not what you said it was going through the government. This goes directly to the National Assembly. The next thing, I am a little sorry when there is no respectable colleague of Logar who touched that, in this context, as I mentioned in the debates, this is a matter of cumbersome legislation. In this case, in relation to Article 4, we do not talk about the cumbersome legislation, if it is only a delay, there is a real delay clause in force. It's not a holed-up legislation, and then I'll be in the rest of the time. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u122	Yes, you can turn it around like that, but it's nice to be an opposition member, but you can arrange it quickly too. That's no problem. If it's easier to manage our assets from this end. But, you know, the only thing that we should be worried about together is that, like today, we can't manage assets. It doesn't matter whether they're yours or yours or yours or yours. In this way, state property must not be managed. On Monday, when I asked the President a question, I told him what was most painful about everything. It pains me that you say you're a left-handed government and that the left- centred government controls our assets in this way. That's what hurts the most. And once again, respected colleagues and colleagues, because it is really possible, but no, I will not say that it is a waste of time, because quite a few things have been exposed today, but such a law is not worthy of adoption, and we have been the proponents. It's not worth it. And this is now, without copying the laws, I think you are from New Slovenia at least one or two, now it's another practice, now you completely reverse it. We make it, and you and the amendments make everything else out of it. But the fact that the basic proposal received 70 votes should give you something to think about, let you think that we are all obviously convinced together in the National Assembly that things are not going in the right direction. Including the Modern Centre Party, which voted in favour at the time, you turned radically and turned things upside down. And that's not right. You seem to agree that the property is not managed well, but we would change nothing. But you're the only one. My colleague says it is comfortable to be an opposition Member, but when we suggest that the opposition could also propose a replacement of the supervisory council, Oops, but that is not the case. Oh, no! Only the government can do that. But what else do we have left then, as we warn, say, please, appeal? That's all we have left. The sins that happen, of course, are yours. Don't give us those yet, or get us on our side, because we really don't have anything to do with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I started my previous debate with a sentence, who actually manages this property. After the current debate, at the end of this debate and after all the facts that we have said here, and what Mrs Bratušek has said in the end and colleague Pogačnik, I am even more concerned. What if all this loop is deliberately done? If all of this is done on purpose, then it does not mean that only an article relating to the recall of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, but also articles relating to the need to find a known owner, that this owner must be verifiable in the records, that the ownership of the company must be clearly shown in order to provide all the data of the Slovenian State Holding, then that will not be the case and we have postponed the whole matter. I won't say it now on September. What September?Oh, my God! The question is whether this will happen in 2016. And whose interest is it that this law is not passed? Whose interest is it that this law is not adopted and that it has simply exercised its interest through coalition members on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to the detriment of Slovenian citizens and citizens, because this system will continue to be untransparent? Are we talking about the subject? Not awkward voting, not accidental awkwardness, but conscious voting, which voted that the law is impossible in one article, and we will now come to the point that we will not accept it or anyhow. I am simply reminding you that it is also necessary to be careful that someone had an interest, that this will not happen, that such a law would not be adopted, that it would not be more transparent, that he would not commit the Slovenian state holding company and that it is certainly in the interest of someone today. On the other hand, the Prime Minister speaks about the lobby, says the Prime Minister about the Mafia, this law has not even been supported by the government, the Secretary of State has been against this law, and today he has also said that it is against this law to actually enforce this transparency here. With some delay, with some wrong vote, the whole law becomes impossible and the matter goes on and businesses can continue to sell to certain companies in tax havens, companies that are dedicated companies and so on. I just don't want to be naive, so I'm warning you. I do not want to be naive that the coalition on the Finance Committee accidentally voted wrong, under the terms of reference. Maybe someone convinced them it was right to vote like that. I don't know. I'm asking. That we now have the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that it is impossible to do so. But I wonder how many sales are going to be made now on vacation before the new marriage. And there won't be a new marriage in September. If there is a new law in 2016, we can be happy. And the new marriage will not be accepted with us, esteemed Alenka Bratusek. These are the illusions that we're going to adopt the law together. If this coalition doesn't want him, it won't. Let's be realistic. And my thesis is completely justified that everything was done on purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u126	The purpose of the proposalr seemed to me to be smart and on the spot. It seems right for me to know that we as owners, to whom we sell some companies and that the owner has the opportunity to set up a supervisory board to call it off. If people own this property, we are their representatives in this House, we elect a supervisory council, and it is perfectly logical that we must also have the opportunity and the opportunity to call off this supervisory council. At least as far as I'm concerned, the matter is undeniable to me. Now until the property check. You know that New Slovenia, too, I personally advocate privatisation, but I must make it very clear that not every privatisation and not every price, but just privatisation to a good and responsible owner. And we need to ask ourselves how we can sell this company to a good and responsible owner, if we don't even know who owns it. But you imagine this perversion, that, for example, we who are devoting ourselves to the privatisation of the responsible owners are being violently attacked by this, but the parties or coalition, which declares that it is against privatisation, at the same time, companies are selling to someone who is not even aware of who is behind it, I think is extremely perverse. The basic thing about responsible and smart privatisation is that we know the owners. Everything else is "acceptance." "Acception" in the sense that money is hidden behind various straw companies, which has previously left these same state-owned companies, and now these state-owned companies are buying back with this money. This is the practice of operating mode, which is obviously extremely well established in Slovenia. For this reason, I think there is a provision that if anyone wants to buy Slovenian companies, he has to fully transparently disclose the ownership of this company that buys this company completely in place. Let him be such a strategic paper owner if he does not want to tell who is behind this company, then Slovenian companies cannot buy. Pika. An article should also be written in this spirit. But the article in the current version is far from that. Just to show that it will be clear what the coalition has proposed and/or what the coalition has accepted, that this same SDH, which now sells to companies that are not known who their owner is, can therefore rightly be claimed to sell them intransparency, this same SDH must now set the criteria for the re-investigation of ownership. This same SDH will determine that. How will he determine that? They say that, in accordance with the applicable rules and international guidelines, good practice must be taken into account and take into account the specificities of the individual management procedure. I think it's scary flying. You can hardly understand what the government coalition meant by that. Now we come to the point. If the opposition wanted SDH-sale companies to be sold, at least very precisely who owns these companies, we have now come up with a solution that makes it extremely unclear how the buyer's ownership will be discovered. And even more. It is proposed that this will be implemented there somewhere far into the future some year from now. If this is not a one-time story to design and design conspiracy theories that is still useful and useful, we will now sell or use a speech on this side, left, sell out, and after one year you can ten times check ownership, because there will virtually not be much left. For all those fighters on the left, for national interest in privatisation, for transparent privatisation, for all of these fighters, to get such a scribble! Now answer and tell me how this is possible. I can only find out and let the proposer not blame me, but such a law in such a form is impossible to support. If the coalition is going to vote on this article for a one-year deadline, then this law is completely meaningless because sales are happening here today. So it would be very pleasant and useful to hear all national interest fighters and anti-privatisation fighters comment on these things, why their coalition opposes knowing who we are selling businesses to. Just this – a simple and simple question that requires a very simple answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Then I conclude Article 1. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u128	In fact, our amendment to Article 4 is linked to Article 1 so that we do not lose our words in such a long and wide way. The amendment of the coalition, you have heard well, and the entire coalition – SMC, Desus and SD – essentially enforces the termination of this law for 1 year. I wish you had made a mistake here too, to vote against, to support the two of our amendments that have been tabled, and to resolve the situation for force. In fact, I would like to hear if someone could explain to me what was meant by this one - year delay. What about during this transitional period? Nothing. Let's let it work just like it's done. One year from now, what? But you will be in the opposition and then you will be able to propose a replacement of the supervisory board. It is not the most correct., If we really know that things are going wrong, it is our responsibility, yes, but whatever it sounds like, let's step up together and fix these things. The law was really put in place with good intentions, and the law was really ready to make a difference in the management of state property. But not now throw sand in our eyes and not the people and accept the amendment to enforce the law with a one-year delay, and this law that you will have, you will not believe, three articles. The law, which will have three articles, will be enforced with a one-year delay. This really isn't worth this national council. Perhaps you should take another coalition meeting before the vote and find that what you have tabled is one big nonsense and you vote against it, support two of our amendments, which, once again, for force, save the situation, and the process of replacing the supervisory board or proposal, because until the replacement is far from being put forward in the National Assembly, we can fix it very quickly in the next step. So we will show everyone that the National Assembly is the one who can also decide something, not that you are just the voting apparatus if the government wakes up. However, if the government does not wake up, as well as the letter or appeal to the government to replace the Governing Council, there is nothing to do with it. Scissors and canvas can be taken into our own hands, but, please, without a one-year delay. That's true, but it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u130	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I, too, would like to hear the purpose of this amendment proposed by the coalition. SMC is running out of time, but two other coalition parties are signed here, DeSUS and SD. Tell me, why do you want this marriage to be enforced in one year? What are the reasons for this amendment? But weighty. Look, I still have a personal opinion that there should be another agreement here. Now something to support, just because it will be a little more transparent I am still certain, regardless of the fact that Article 1 of this amendment and the additions does not prevent Slovenian state property, although this Article 1 would be adopted, sold to or to postal collectors or companies from the tax haven or to some financial fund. [[…]] This does not prevent what you discussed today. Once again, I propose that we should put this proposal into the legislative procedure primarily through this call, this more transparent sale and the change in the strategy that is necessary. In the Supervisory Council, I think that the National Assembly should also have this manoeuvre to call off, if it has already been appointed, but let that proposal remain here for ten Members or then agree on how many votes are needed to call off, because then there may be some danger of being torn down by what was done in the first place. But the opposition gets a representative in the supervisory council under the same conditions. However, this, the honourable candidate, I have already said before, but you have failed as Prime Minister yourself and you have thrown the opposition out. Let's get in here, well, because I think we've already adopted a bad marriage too many times, and this debate has been going on for a while, and I think it's going on empty. And we will not know who this National Assembly is now, because even now the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly cannot correct this, whether an individual Member or not, or whether the Secretary-General of the National Assembly can propose a change to the damage, it would be inappropriate to enact such laws because I am sure that they can do significantly more harm than good. [[...]] As I have already mentioned, no law in such a bad government is a guarantee that this property will be better managed. I think the government's primary responsibility is needed here. Even if the marriage is bad, the government can manage the property well. But with this government of Mira Cerar, the Modern Centre Party, SD and Desus, I am convinced that even if it were the best-quality law, this government would have mismanagement of state property. Personal partial interests predominate here. Talking about Luke and everything, I think things have escalated too far. The street isn't the one who dictates business management. The government should take responsibility here. And if the government has decided to replace or replace the SDH to replace the supervisory council, it must take this responsibility on its own and move on. And this President of the Porte Koper Supervisory Board is not ideal. Who ordered her to replace Gaspar Gaspar Misic? The court's decision is clear: Luke will pay EUR 700,000 because it was unlawfully resolved if, of course, the judgment is legally binding.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u131	Here you go, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I think that, however, we need to be precise in reading the contents of the amendments. And this other amendment, which speaks of a one-year suspension of the application of Article 2 of this Law, is that this amendment does not refer to the whole law, but to 2. Article 2 of this Article refers to the fact that a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian National Holding may, on a proposal from the Government or a proposal from the National Assembly, be dismissed by the National Assembly. I think that, in spite of everything, it is necessary to find out, as has already been said, that this law has already received very broad support at first reading, so this moment I am surprised by the proposaler's position to encourage Members to reject this law at second reading. Even if this provision remains in Article 2 of the basic text, which is the text of the applicant, or on a proposal from the National Assembly, the members of the Supervisory Board may be dissolved, this is still a positive message from the will of the National Assembly that it is necessary to fall into the system of administration of state property in a way that the National Assembly may also propose the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Board. If the law were rejected, it would certainly be an interpretation, if you look, because the National Assembly rejected this possibility so that the National Assembly could propose a replacement of the Supervisory Council. I think we are going to do a lot of damage to ourselves, at least to all those who advocate the view that the National Assembly must have the option of replacing and thus also having an impact on the management of people's assets. Last but not least, we are chosen by the people and are more responsible than the government about what is happening to this property. Unfortunately, the provisions of the current law on the Slovenian State Holding do not allow us to do so. And once again, this moment is only possible an initiative by the Member, which I have also tabled, on the Government to replace the members of the Supervisory Board. This is where the jurisdiction of the National Assembly comes from right now. If we adopt this law, it is clear that we will give the National Assembly the opportunity to propose a replacement of a member of the Supervisory Council without the Government agreeing or not. This transitional period I think is needlessly problematic for Article 2 already because we are all, and also in the debates we have found that there is no defined procedure for the implementation of the discharge proposal by the National Assembly, especially since the amendment on the home labour body that defined it has been rejected. I myself have supported this amendment so that there will be no dilemma. However, in this one-year period, if we accept this message that the National Assembly wishes to have the possibility of replacing a member of the Supervisory Board, we have the opportunity to propose amendments and amendments to the law that will clear up this procedure during this period. It is better to consider agreeing to reintroduce the amendment and supplementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which would also clear the procedure for the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding if the National Assembly decides to do so. In my opinion, it is better to adopt this law because we preserve this will of the National Assembly. This one-year transitional period does not harm, nor does it benefit, because this provision is actually impossible in practice at this point in time and it is pointless to ask whether it is a one-year period too long, too short. However, if this is the condition that the law is adopted, in my view it is better to adopt this and approach to amending and supplementing the law that will clear up the procedure, in what way we can discharge a member of the Supervisory Board. I myself advocate that this solution is actually good by the ten Members, although we must be aware that the members of the Supervisory Council at some point have more power than the Minister in the Government, for which we can also begin the procedure for interpretation if he is put in by ten Members and Members. But this analogy with the government's approach to managing this property is shown in a very comparable way with ten Members, and in my opinion it is also that this does not happen at the request of one Member, two, three, but ten Members. This will also prove this concern and responsibility that there will be no ad hoc proposals because certain conditions will have to be met, which are also mentioned in these criteria. Only on this basis can this procedure be initiated. All too much is trying to simplify understanding, managing state property, but I think that we have come very far at this point, so I suggest that we maintain this will of the National Assembly, that it has the ability to influence the management of state property to a greater extent than and only by investing an initiative to which the Government will respond in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u134	Of course, what has now been said is sand in the eyes. Mr Weber, you know this very well because the ruling coalition will delete this article in the next phase. Since the article is not open, you cannot afford it because of the procedure, so you have given yourself one year of the transitional period. And since the announcement that the National Assembly will have a right in one year in our country, it will not be any better. And from the law I signed because of the coalition amendments, there's nothing left. At the request of the SDH National Assembly, do not allow us to be provided with data. I'm not talking to you, but I'm talking to the coalition. Don't let me! You've deleted this article. Don't let me! I'm talking to the coalition. Don't let us find out who the owners of our companies are. That was our wish. And don't let the Members, however they agree, propose not just to replace it, but rather to propose replacing the Supervisory Council. And since there is nothing left of the law, of the ideas and of the goals, my suggestion is that if such a one remains until the end, including your one-year delay, it will not be supported. Since this is no longer the bill of motion, it is the law of the coalition, which says that transparency is not necessary, it does not matter who we sell to. And in one year, the National Assembly may have some right. This is the law that is now on the table, and this is far from the goals that we have written down in good faith when we proposed the law. Once again, nothing, we have not written that 30 Members or 45 are enough to replace the Supervisory Council, so that we can agree on this in the opposition. You still have the majority and you can still prevent all the ideas, but you're obviously also afraid of discussions about how we talk about things going wrong. You must be afraid of that. But things are going wrong. I think it's crystal clear to everyone that things in asset management are going wrong. And that also means that Desus is quiet all day today. The Vice-President of the Government is going to Luka Koper to support the administration, but today there's nothing about management again, because you've hugged in the coalition and it's all the way it has to be, there's no longer a problem. Until the next story, until the next affair. Nothing, not a, not b. With the management of state property, obviously everything is in order. It's not! Far from it! And I am sure that not only Mr Weber of the Coalition, but many others know that the management of state property is not all right. It's just not enough to know what needs to be done. That's why I came up with a proposal, once again today, from my or our proposal. Nothing. Hands on your heart – nothing! Let's agree not to support a one-year delay, give a very clear signal to the Government and the Slovenian state holding company, what the National Assembly can do and we'll bring the procedure in first thing tomorrow. We have an amendment ready, we can write the law right after the adoption. There's no problem. It's not the sand that throws in your eyes with a one-year delay, because that's really funny. No one believes that, no one believes that you have any serious intentions. Nobody. Once again, the message that the National Assembly will now receive in one year a tool that will punch the government and the ruling coalition on its fingers is not enough. In one year, things can happen, even in the management of assets that are irreparable, they cannot be rectified. And that's what's been going on for the last two years. Unfortunately. And once again, now it really looks like this one we have another coalition made up to fight for state property. And I think that at least my colleagues on the right are proponents of state property, but I am also convinced that it is not good that everything remains state-owned, but now it looks like we are a coalition of state-owned property advocates. That's what it looks like. But we are only fighters for transparency and that our property is managed as it should be. If we gather courage, support our two amendments, we will still be without the fact that the National Assembly may require certain data from the Slovenian State Holding, but, God help, this cannot be regulated at this time, reject the amendment of the coalition on a one-year moratorium and the force issue will be settled. And immediately after that, we are going to introduce a law governing the procedure of how we come to the National Assembly to propose the discharge of the Supervisory Council. Let's just get this out of the way. The appointment process stays the same. The new candidates will still have to be checked, they will still have to meet the conditions, all the same, the government and the ruling coalition will still have a majority. Nothing. Are you sure you don't understand that we're not taking anything out of your hands? Nothing. But nothing at all! All we want is transparency in the management of our state property. That's all. And if our two amendments are not adopted and an amendment on a one-year delay is adopted, this law is unworthy of adoption. It's a farce. And that's why my appeal as a proponent is that we really don't accept such a law because it's a shame. They're going to make a fool of us not because we're not going to vote for it, we're going to vote for you. Three articles, one article at a time, to give a message to show that we are strong, but in just one year we will get scissors and canvas, this is not the right way. If you really want certain things to change and not go where they can't go, as I said, support our two amendments, reject a one-year moratorium and forcefully resolve the matter for force.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Replica Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u136	I would just like to point out once again, in fact, that there is a real need for a general change in the management of Slovenian state property. Not least if we just look at the cost of managing this property. It's 34.5 million as much as it costs us to manage state property every year. 14.4 million – I speak for 2015, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, i.e. Bad Bank, 9.1 million Slovenian State Holding, Blue Insurance 6.4 million and Kad 4.5 million euros per year. So 14.4 million euros total for 2015. In fact, this governance needs to be changed in a way that serves people. The demographic fund I have already mentioned today is the one that solves this problem. Finally, we will talk about managing this property in the long run, because it will also provide funds for the pension system. If we would only reduce these costs with one operator, we will significantly increase the inflow immediately into the pension fund. Just for comparison. When the Capital Investment Management Agency was established, only EUR 2 million were to be provided per year. But it bothered all the current Slovenian politics. Well, not all of it, I'm not, because I advocated this option as one that is far more acceptable and far more verifiable. And today we would not be discussing whether or not the National Assembly would be able to propose a change of administration. I would have it because the Agency is also directly as a public institution under the supervision of both the Court of Auditors and the National Assembly. However, this issue was withdrawn in the way that the Slovenian State Holding Act was adopted. This distance from the National Assembly is causing us every step of the way, when we try to point out that something is wrong, very specific problems. This only confirms those findings that I made at the time when the Slovenian state holding company was established, because when you transferred to management of the holding company, actually the place of the century with this. And that's what's happening to us. That's what happens to us in practice. So, once again, I merely justify the need for the National Assembly and, as Members and Members, to really intervene in this process in a way that would stop this practice. One possibility is this moment here, too, I agree that an agreement is needed on the fact that we have already expressed this in the first reading, in fact, all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, in order to reach an agreement to amend the law in a way that the National Assembly has the opportunity to resolve the supervisors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Master Matthew Tonin, please. Replica, mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u138	Look, my dear fellow Weber, not to fool the AUKN with this, but that it cost only 2 million euros at the time. When the AUKN was also the Court and Kad, it was the DSU and everything. And those AUKN employees now had to take over SDH. Not to fool, but it was only 2 million. I don't think this is fair to those who listen or who don't know that much about how they manage state property in Slovenia. The purpose then proposed by the Slovenian State Holding Act in 2012 under the government of Janez Janša was to make it more transparent, rational, more cost-effective and more responsible, but then there were two other governments involved, and these governments have a great deal of responsibility in how this property is managed today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mag. Tonin, now it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u140	I did not believe that the time would come when we would even speak the same language with Ambassador Webro. Unbelievable. He claims that the management of Slovenian state property is poor and wasteful. All I can do is make a hook and say that I agree with Ambassador Webro. Absolutely. And I can't believe that today, in fact, in this House, the story is that those of you who are the greatest fighters against privatisation and the fact that all companies remain in state hands don't want to know who we are selling these companies to as citizens if you want to be the people's representatives. But it's okay. I'm gonna leave this thing here. About this suspension period. I am a short-term Member. Member Weber is a longer period of time. I can't believe you read certain things like that. Things that are not written in detail, usually the Rules of Procedure apply mutatis mutandis to these matters and it is even a provision that the Presidents who preside over the meeting then also directs the way things are going. I think, and for my humble legal opinion, I would understand the matter in such a way that if we wrote in the law that the National Assembly could propose the discharge of supervisors, it is all that it needs for me. So these are simple laws. Not us, who are such scribes, that we want to have everything from A to Z to the minute written exactly what needs to be done. I am convinced that this is absolutely enough to be written in the law so that the National Assembly can propose a discharge. From here on out, the President of the National Assembly or the President will create parliamentary practice, most likely he will turn to the Legislative and Legal Service, which will advise him that in these cases, when the matter is not fully decided, he can make reasonable use of these and these cases and these and these provisions of the Rules of Procedure and so on. In short, if it is the will to apply this provision immediately, it may be applied immediately after my assessment. However, because I feel that this provision in the law is simply because you feel embarrassed to vote or embarrassed to say that you are against the State Assembly calling back, but at the same time you have made the matter in a way that this provision – or at least explain it in this way – is not functional. That really doesn't seem fair to me. The problem is that I don't expose these things because I know everyone has their responsibilities, but you know, we're here to debate, commending Ambassador Webber, but look, he's sitting alone from the Social Democrats. There's no joint left. Half of the SMC is missing. We talk to each other. If there were a greater presence in this Chamber, the other Members would probably also understand that this was where the coalition made a mistake. And every smart man ever admits to a mistake and fixes it. The coalition is learning slowly, and it needs to be acknowledged. If it was at a stage when each thing had to be rejected, let's say for this point we would consider one very simple, simple law on motorcycles, which was supported by all the professions, but then the coalition decided, in the end, to deal with this matter with some of its acts, with some of its own diversionary action. But it's okay. I admit to the coalition she's already taken a step further. And this step forward is that they have now come to realize that sometimes it is not wise to reject all opposition proposals, but it is better to adopt them nicely and by your amendment and move on. But the problem is that the action, due to the lack of experience, was somewhat unfortunate, and these amendments were not the most accurate if I look well-intentioned. But if I look maliciously, I'm going to say they're so frantic that they've written the case in such a way that it's useless. And I'm going to stick to the positive interpretation that I believe the matter has failed and that you have no ill intentions. But believe me, the time will come again when we will talk about the privatisation of Slovenian companies, the management of Slovenian state property, and when Member Weber or any other other person will attack me because of our positions, when we speak only and only that we need to find the responsible owner who will manage the companies responsible. However, the responsible owner cannot be found in any other way than to know exactly who is behind these companies and what their purposes are. When we come to the situation that I will hear them again from your side and about reading the national interest and Slovenian state property, then I will tell you very nicely, quite simply, that you had the opportunity to do so, and you said, "No, thank you very much." And here I think of Commissioner Veber all the more well, I only hope that you will succeed in convincing your colleagues to make another thought here and correct this potential error. I don't think you're going to drop a crown off your head, that nothing dramatic is going to happen, but sometimes it's a mistake to insist firmly on your views. I hope that at least in this deferral article, you will not give in, however, to accept it so that this law can be adopted. Because in all other cases, it's really a waste of our time, so we'd better be over there on ice cream.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u142	I agree that there should also be additional information on how much should have been given for Kad, how much for the Court, when they were still independent. Two million was definitely enough for the agency at the time, and the fact is that the costs got out of control. Therefore, as President of the National Assembly at the time, I rejected the proposal for a Slovenian State Holding Act because it had no financial implications found. Today we find that these costs have escaped control.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Urosh Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your word. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! I feel quite uncomfortable when I hear such flat-rate criticisms as if we are all coalition Members, the whole government and all those who in some way act out of position, guilty, dirty, doing the most harmful business, we don't care if we hold the bag in bulk when we steal when we don't know what we're doing. Of course not. Of course not, and you all know that. Finally, we have adopted a strategy. Well, just so we're clear, I guess things didn't turn out the way they did. We didn't start in Desus at night defending privatisation, selling or selling out, if you like, but we're still very hung up on it. The strategy I mentioned earlier speaks of asset management. And we are particularly concerned that we wisely, meaningfully, wisely manage state property and that when an investment is defined as irrelevant, that is, portfolio, we sell off those shares. Matthew, I agree with you for as much as possible. Where we have identified investments as important, we keep that controlling share, but where they are strategic, we simply do not touch them, so we do not sell them, we keep them in a majority share. A number of such investments are also at the expense of Desus, who insisted on some of them and will remain intact, will not be sold because there is no need, because this is not economically feasible. Something has been done so far that control is simply not lost, so that we do not let the matter go. It would be stupid if we didn't want to be in control, it would be stupid if we didn't want to be able to control the property of the country carefully, with the property from which we might once have something to use by our craftsmen, our current and future pensioners, if you want to hear it. Weber also mentioned the demographic fund or the reserve demographic fund – REDS, we call it the jargon.It is the mantra of Desusa. And it's not just Desus' mantra, but it's one of the things he did, one of the key things that's written in the coalition contract. And we know what this matter means in the long run. In the long term, it means sustainability of public finances and in the long term, it means sustainability and smooth payment of pensions. So things are running around here. I would like to add to this thinking that some message value for us to adopt the law in this way will, of course, not completely destroy what the colleague of Bratuškova said. It will not wait for one year at all, it will not wait 365 days to pass, but we will let that article, now, as it has come to be, now be impossible to implement. I would like it to be implemented so that it can be understood in itself how we are going to do this now, so that the National Assembly can call off or propose that the whole process be closed. But I'm afraid when we come to this, it's either the President of the National Assembly or the President of the Council or I don't know which body and any Member of Parliament will explain it, yeah, but we'll have three, four different positions, yes, that would be different. I believe that we will address the matter, and the message value is that we don't care about state property and we don't just want to sell it, sell it or donate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u146	Yes, Your Honor, very quickly. That we're only going to adopt the law to have a press release, I think it's a disaster. On this committee, which has dealt with this law, I, honourable Mr Pikl, have also told you something and I am still convinced today. Desus is a developmental glass of Slovenia, and you have now proved this with your own words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please. Replica, Urosh Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u148	I would ask you, President, to warn my colleague Pogačnik that there is no place here in the National Assembly to insult representatives of other parliamentary groups or other parties. And it's hard for me, somehow, when someone insults me, the party that I belong to, the group that I belong to, like a bar of development. And I don't think it's right to talk like that in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u150	I don't see that insulting is a developmental bar. A developmental bar is a name that speaks of a single group blocking development or faster reforms. And it must not be taken as an insult. It is clear that Desus is hampering reforms in this coalition and the peak. This is your position, which is why you get a certain number of votes. I don't blame you. It's just the situation. But it seems insane to me that someone is buying this, that Member Prikl will come out and say quite dead cold, we are not for privatisation, we are responsible for responsible ownership, we are responsible for the management of state-owned enterprises. And that concludes the story. But as if it were not the point, the point is that the same party that Member Prikl represents makes it impossible for them to know who we are selling Slovenian companies to. It really pisses me off a little bit, but because I have nothing to do, obviously people believe Member of Hell more than I do in that sense, that if he says it, they're so assertive that everything's okay. But the problem is the facts. But the facts are the way they are. I hope that one day in this country, however, the facts will begin to be taken into account. When it does, things will be different in this country. Because now it's a picture that Karl Erjavec is the biggest pension fighter. But the reality of the Statistical Office is that since Karl Erjavec is in government, pensions have fallen by 16.5%. I didn't make that information up. Even ZDUS wrote it in his letter. That's real data. But of course they'll say to us, "No, no, you're not for pensioners, you're for entrepreneurs, you're for Desus, and this is for pensioners." But if you look at real, concrete data, the story is diametrically opposite. But okay, that's none of our business. I can tell the Member of the Party ten more times, and he answers me ten more times how I am wrong and that is totally irrelevant. The important thing is that in the end, people will decide who is right. It can happen that Members of the Covenant will believe more than I do. But look, it's politics. In politics, results do not always count, but sometimes they also count cuteness and glamorous performance. So I can get back to the content. The amendment refers to the deletion of this to postpone and postpone for one year. But the basic version of the law says well that the National Assembly may propose the release of the overseer. Anyone who uses a little sanity could know that decisions in the National Assembly are made by a majority, which means that not me, Matthew Tonin, not Member Prikl, not Member Weber, even if we so wish, we alone cannot replace SDH overseers, but that replacement requires a majority in this Parliament. On which committee this will be discussed earlier how the matter will proceed, how many signatures are needed for this, or one Member or ten Members. As long as these matters are not clearly defined in the law, the President of the National Assembly will create some parliamentary practice. However, it is essential that we come to a decision at the end and that there must be majority support for these old ones. For me, the point is clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Urosh Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u152	I don't know why you like that word "chick" so much. It's an insult to me. It's an insult to me. Matthew, I wasn't talking about privatisation at this point. You're the principles of this topic. I've never said we're against privatisation, but sometimes colleagues, coalition Members, sometimes make a little joke when I say I shake my hand for a proposal. But with this privatisation that's not personally close to me, even ideologically, if you want, it's not close to me, but I'm very careful. If possible, not sell, not gold eggs. Comrade Tonin, you know very well that if Desus wasn't there, even more drastic pensions would have fallen. And that's a fact we all know. Am I a sci-fi? Obviously I am, because I don't think so, I'm sure that the law should specify exactly what the procedure is to get rid of or recall any of the members of the Supervisory Board. And I believe this will be resolved. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u153	She's a magi's proponent. Alana Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u154	Mr Pikl, on the same committee, we sat where the coalition – SMC, Desus and SD – rejected the proposal of a very precise article. I speak because you deceive the Slovenian public. There was a proposal on the table that the coalition rejected. Pika. So it's not meant to be. If the purpose is to give a message to the public, I ask, Mr Vice-President, perhaps we can take a decision and give a message to the public that we are united, that we must arrange this. There are no laws to do that. There are no laws to do that. And don't move around, just say that you don't want transparency, that the management of state property is all right and that it stays the way it is. Not only the Modern Centre Party, together with Desus and the Social Democrats, are you responsible for this mastic that is taking place in the Slovenian State Holding. If two parties hit the table, things would turn around, but, as we say, you keep the stallion on all of this. Unfortunately. Here you are full of words, how do you feel about it, up, down, down here, up there, everything. But unfortunately, there are actions that can change things. And once again, I appeal to you to reject this rude one-year delay amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Urosh Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u156	Here's what my colleague, Brother, says. We sort of clean up, yeah, certain anomalies from the past. Just over the thumb, fifteen companies came to the list without any criteria for resale. And then these sales happened. We have reached a strategy, some have happened, unfortunately, also the New Credit Bank. We're saving these things. We're cleaning them up. However, let the proposer decide whether to represent the position to throw out the whole law he proposes or to bring it through the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u158	Dear Member, I did not sit in the National Assembly, but, if I recall correctly, the Members of Desus voted in favour. They've been sitting in the government for 16 years. Members of Desus not in the government, but Desus is sitting in the government and is responsible for everything that has been happening in our country since 2002. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Any other discussions? No, no, no. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 16th item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 16. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on road transport rules in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members, with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. The bill is being proposed at the 21st session of the 23rd. 6. 2016 treated the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u160	Good afternoon. Here, we've come up with one more flower that this government coalition has made. You know that in Slovenia we have vehicles that are understood under the category of "wheel with auxiliary engine". They use the term "fifteenty" in public. These 25s can be driven by young people from 12 years of age who have a cycle exam. They can drive them without helmets, they can also ride on bicycle paths and these vehicles do not need to be registered. There was a problem that we were reminded in particular in Primorsk that these vehicles had done quite a few accidents, where it was not possible then to cover the damage. That some of the accidents were serious injuries because the helmet was not used and that a number of such vehicles were converted in a way that went more than 25 km/h, which meant that they should no longer fall into these categories. But since they didn't have any I.D. plates, if the police didn't catch them on the spot, they couldn't practically get them. New Slovenia has joined in solving this problem. We have prepared a law introducing four novelties: mandatory use of helmets by the age of 18 years; raising the age for using these vehicles from 12 to 14 years; compulsory insurance of 30 euros to cover all potential damage and identification plate. What is the difference between the identification plate and the registration plate? For the license plate you must take the vehicle for technical inspection, pay all the charges and then get a license plate. In the identification plate, you only carry the papers that prove your ownership of the vehicle onto the administrative unit and they issue you an identification plate that you place on the vehicle and start using it. At first reading, this law was supported by a majority in the National Assembly. This marriage of ours has been supported by a majority in the State Council. This marriage of ours has even been supported by the profession and the police. I'm talking about the Road Safety Agency. But then there is a coalition group on the committee's second reading, otherwise I cannot say which, for incredible reasons, this proposal, despite all this support, rejects by reasoning that they have drawn up a better, more systematic law. The main reason for rejecting our proposal was that these things could be regulated in three different laws, but we only did it in one. That's a great reason. Then the coalition comes with two, not three laws. And what does the coalition suggest? The coalition proposes nothing more than an I.D. plate, but a license plate, which means that people will have to register all these vehicles, take them to a technical inspection. Imagine what this means for people living in rural areas who have the first stop of a technical inspection about 20, 25 kilometers away from where they will have to drive these vehicles. Of course, there's increased red tape. And they even change the direction or definition of a vehicle, that is, wheels with auxiliary engines, these are vehicles that do not go more than 25 kilometers, but that they also have to have pedals. Which means that a number of these vehicles will move back to the road, where they have virtually nothing to look for because of their characteristics. It is very difficult to understand that the coalition has afforded all of this, in the fact that it has supported the law and that this Parliament and the Council of State and the profession, that the coalition has inherited the proposals of the members of the coalition, and that we will obviously now only conclude that the law that we have founded is inappropriate for further consideration and will thus conclude its legislative procedure. However, there will be a coalition law that will impose new duties on people, much more red tape and many movements of these vehicles from the category "wheels with auxiliary engine" to the category "mopedi". In short, the coalition has complicated things to the end, just for the sake of the prestige of the reasons. I'm very sorry, but that's what you did.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u162	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The proposal before us, which was dealt with, was a good one. Why? Because it was preventive because it was in line with European standards because it was based on the principles of defensive safe driving and because it protected those most vulnerable to transport, these are young people. He arranged the state of the wheels with the auxiliary engine, arranged the safety of the helmet, limited the minimum age limit, prevented abuse and took care of insurance, which is still important in these times of crisis. The proposed law has not been adopted on the Committee and has been rejected by reasons which we have already heard on several occasions that it is non-systematic, that there is no comparison with abroad, that there are no proposed financial solutions and so on. What are we witnessing all day today? We're witnessing the appearance of "state capture" or the kidnapping of the state, whether it's human resources or legislation. Similarly, the Prime Minister says that Slovenia is dominated by stakeholders. Let him show them, he's been on the government for two years, and it would be right to do something against them. What are we witnessing in the National Assembly today? The State Administration Act, the SDH Act and now the proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act. Three patterns of behaviour of "state capture" or kidnapping of the legislative process. If the opposition proposes a law, it has been so far that the coalition has rejected the law as inappropriate, inconsistent, non-systematic and similar. Today we witnessed two new patterns of behavior. One of the samples is that the law proposed by the opposition, the SDH Act, is being amended so that it cannot be implemented as it was intended. And I join my colleague, Shirtz, that it has been deliberately voted in such a way that the law will not be applicable. I don't believe in coincidences or mistakes anymore. And a third pattern of conduct when the law proposed by the opposition is rejected and taken over and presented as its own. This is what we are witnessing now that the biggest opposition party has proposed an identical law, as it will now be closed. That's why I'm warning, for example, the kidnapping of a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u164	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Fellow Member and Members! I will present my position on the law. I've also heard some insulting comments that some group here has suggested something. However, we are in the parliamentary procedure, the procedures which have been legally legitimate, and in particular the position of the Legal and Legislative Service, which is some guardian of the protection of the law in this Parliament, has been taken into account, in order not to produce laws that are useless, mutually reinforcing and so on. Let me read the explanation briefly. The proposal for a new Law on Road Traffic Rules, which was tabled by the NSI Group of Members of the State, offers solutions relating to the scope of motorcycles with engines whose structural speed is not to exceed 25 kilometres per hour. The proposal therefore proposes solutions relating to the establishment of the minimum age limit, the mandatory use of the helmet, the introduction of compulsory basic insurance and the mandatory use of identification plates. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we conceptually support the initiative of fellow Members to emphasise, support, that this material somehow narrows down and regulates itself. We are, of course, in this respect, like all those who work for the benefit of citizens and citizens, committed to respect for the technical legislative rules in the drafting of new legislation and the legal and regulatory services of this House of Democracy. In the course of the examination of the proposal, it has been shown that the proposal has a substantive impact on the content of three other laws, namely the Road Traffic Rules Act, the Drivers Act and the Motor Vehicle Act, and is therefore inappropriately placed in the existing legal order. This has been pointed out by the Ministry of Infrastructure, as well as by the Legal and Legislative Service, which points out that the adoption of these disputed solutions could pose a risk for the correct implementation of the desired solutions in practice. Notwithstanding the argument that these annexes need to be systematically incorporated into existing legislation, we believe in the Modern Centre Group that the solution must be sought immediately and also in a way that allows higher safety standards for users of these vehicles and also indirectly involved in road transport. That is why we have also drawn up and introduced two laws which correctly and comprehensively place this matter in existing legislation. In fact, today’s legislation actually compares bicycles with a motor of up to 25 kilometers per hour with ordinary bicycles. Therefore, we believe that the matter must be resolved at the terminology level, with a clearer definition of the auxiliary engine bicycle, and in our view it makes sense to follow the European type-approval rules. We are pleased, however, that policy is somehow at least this time united when we are talking about transport safety. Yet with all these proposals, we are all following the same objective: to ensure higher safety standards for the use of bicycles with engines or so-called mopeds, only the way to this was somehow different. Because of the technical shortcomings of the Committee proposal, we did not accept it, as it would pose a risk that these solutions could not be implemented in practice. However, we will do everything in our power to regulate the area as soon as possible in a suitable way and to fit into existing legislation as proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u166	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act, which was tabled in the ordinary procedure by the first-signed Member, Mr Matthew Tonin, abstained from second reading. Here he was rejected on his mother’s body and thus withdrawn from further consideration. With this action, this summer's season remains unresolved with regard to the problem of bicycle riding with an auxiliary engine and, in fact, there is less safety in this segment. The draft law regulates the establishment of a minimum age limit of 12 years and the mandatory use of a safety helmet up to the age of 18. An important novelty would be the mandatory conclusion of the basic insurance for bicycles with an auxiliary engine, thereby allowing liability to be covered from the insurance policy in the event of a traffic accident. As a novelty, the mandatory use of identification plates to be installed on an auxiliary engine bike shall be introduced. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have supported all these good proposals on the working body of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as they would be implicit in practice and improve safety among young people this summer. The Coalition has rejected this proposal and has submitted its modified proposal over time, which regulates this area much more complicated, bureaucraticly and also undermines a certain segment of users, as bicycles with an auxiliary engine with a maximum speed of 25 kilometres per hour, except for an average speed of between 15 and 20 kilometres per hour, are sent for registration and a mandatory technical review, thus additionally placing an additional financial burden on all users. We will not support such solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we advocate that laws are an incentive and an opportunity, not a restriction and a ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group supported the proposal for a new Law on Road Traffic in the first reading. The proposaler and I share the concern about the problem of bicycles with the auxiliary engine, so scooters are expected to reach the maximum speed of 25 kilometers per hour. These are becoming more and more due to ease of accessibility and loose driving rules. The police also point out many of the offences related to these scooters or their drivers. In the DeSUS Group, we have listened to the warnings of both the competent ministry and the Legal and Legislative Service that we cannot deal with this problem by amending only one law, because it is a complex problem. The proposed amendments prepared by the drafter of the law did not, according to the assessment of the Legal and Legislative Service, address the essential shortcomings of the amendment proposal, so in our parliamentary group we decided not to support the meeting of the domestic labour body of the law, but at the same time we tabled two amendments to the law to regulate this area. In addition to the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, a new amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act will better regulate all the essential content that the proposal already sought to regulate. We have decided on this move because our desire to settle this problem is genuine and we would be sorry to have good intentions for all of us in vain. The problem highlighted by the applicants is real and very present. These scooters, which are supposed to reach only 25 kilometers per hour, can be driven by 12-year-olds who have passed the cycle exam. Most of these scooters, driven by older children, are processed in such a way that they exceed the maximum speed allowed, that is, more than 25 kilometers per hour. The police point out that in addition to these processing and speedy driving, many other violations have also been detected, offences that endanger the safety of these young drivers as well as other participants. It is about not pointing the direction of driving, disregarding the ground markings, driving in the opposite direction on cycling routes and so on. Police officers are often powerless to deal with these drivers because they do not have adequate vehicle documentation, which makes it impossible for police officers to take appropriate measures or to extend the procedure considerably due to the identification of the vehicle data. We did not support Members and Members of the Desus Group in the second reading of the draft law on the home working body, as we have found a more suitable solution. At the same time, we expect the applicants of this paper, which is being discussed today, to support the proposed novels, which deal more appropriately with the problem of bicycles with an auxiliary engine.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Wheels with auxiliary engine, which are limited by factory protection to a speed of more than 25 km per hour, are now subject to the same rules as those applicable to purely ordinary bicycles. The number of wheels with auxiliary engines has increased significantly in recent years. These wheels have the same pattern as versions that fall into the category of bicycles with an engine that can reach speeds of up to 50 km per hour. In addition, they are generally cheaper and technically separate from performances in the engine category only by having a built-in electronic block which prevents acceleration of more than 25 km per hour. This block can be removed with a minor technical intervention, so that the auxiliary engine wheel can reach speeds well above 25 km per hour, with a few additional interventions into the exhaust system and the gears can reach speeds of up to 100 km. As it goes to bicycles with auxiliary motors and motorcycles with the engine for the exact same look of the vehicle itself, police officers stop this vehicle and cannot know whether it is actually a bike with an engine or a bicycle with an auxiliary engine. This can only be determined by a technical inspection of a vehicle for which police officers normally do not decide in the event of minor offences. The auxiliary engine wheel may be operated by minors without being tested by road traffic regulations and without a protective safety helmet and without registration. However, vehicles capable of achieving very high speeds after processing endanger their own safety and the safety of other road users. We cannot ignore the fact that the increase in the number of wheels with the auxiliary engine has also been accompanied by a disproportionately high increase in the number of accidents in which these vehicles were involved and the resulting injury to participants in these accidents. This is not surprising, since you can ride on a bike with an auxiliary motor, and many times you can also see owners driving on sidewalks and pedestrians, at speeds that are strong in excess of 25 km per hour. If you walk around Cyprus one day, you will see at least three or four such cases. In addition, it is not only a problem for participants in transport, but also young people often linger and ride in playgrounds where they threaten their peers, especially younger children who are not even paying attention to the dangers at that time. In the case of unregistered vehicles, it is virtually impossible to identify the driver in the event that he escapes from the scene of a traffic accident. The proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act was thus intended to address the current disadvantage by setting the minimum age limit for bicycles with auxiliary engines and mandatory use of safety helmets for minors. In addition, more traceability of bicycles with an auxiliary engine would be ensured by the introduction of identification plates and the establishment of mandatory owner records with the competent administrative authority. The owners should also enter into compulsory bicycle insurance with an auxiliary engine. As a result, we supported the law at first reading in the United Left. We believe that it has been duly amended in the second reading and that its adoption would significantly help improve road safety. At least some provisions could be adopted, if not all. Unfortunately, the political prestige of the coalition was even more important this time. The law had to fall so that the coalition could now accept its own. The excuses for systemic and integrity have already become apparent, and the treatments on the home labour bodies often show that only the mask is that opposition bill proposals are systematically rejected and that coalition parties can ultimately reap the credit for small but still important amendments to the laws. Good ideas are thus rejected first, then slightly cosmetically repaired and ultimately sold as their own. That's what this coalition is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude the 16th item of the agenda. I am adjourning the 21st session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u172	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration following a reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 12. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment. Members of the SDS Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 17 votes in favour and 52 votes in favour. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Time does not allow me to say what I want to say, however, I will only touch two segments, the transfer of the information society under the MJU and the transfer of the area of corruption regulation to the Ministry of Justice. That's the last one now. In human negotiations, we find human wisdom, and one of these says that someone who gives sheep, I'll say trap by keeping the wolf, is stupid. Because he's going to eat them. And here it is. To Mr Klemenčič, Mr Staret goes into the area of corruption, regulating this area, and both of them, according to the current head of the PKK, are "infected by the fungi of illegality", he said. Take your shoes off. By the way, you've been working illegally. And since you've been working illegally, that's where they're going. As far as the field of information society is concerned. Look, I'm only gonna count a few people. Pavle Gantar, former President of the National Assembly, Franci Pivec, former Minister Jernej Pikalo, former Minister, Žiga Turk, former Minister, Tomaž Kalin, former Director of the Directorate, State Secretary for Telecommunications, Natasha Pirc Musar and so on and so on. A number of these people, 16 of whom signed a petition saying that this area simply does not belong under the Ministry of Public Administration and that it is behind, as these people believe, the privatisation of the area, the maintenance of the Internet. We have a minister who is the current minister, who, of course, is smarter than all those who were before him, so this should go to him. But the coalition succeeded in the morning, Mr Zajc presented this, listing one expert, I think an expert who agrees. But the 16 people who have dealt with it in this country who know what it's like to be in these areas, they don't know anything. But Mr. Koprivnik and the coalition know. This area simply does not belong there, although in principle we do not deny to the coalition that it changes the Law on State Administration, but each coalition changes it at a virtually first meeting of the National Assembly, not in the middle. As soon as this is changed in the middle of the mandate, it is clear that there are other interests that are more corrupt in nature. And that's what you do. We will not support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u174	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 26. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This is the second reading of the proposal for a law on funeral and burial activities under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 12. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 11. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u175	In the New Slovenia Group we will support this amendment because it in some way introduces normality. He doesn't take anything from people, and he gives a lot to people. It gives people a choice. People will be able to choose a public undertaking to arrange the funeral ceremony, but they can also choose any other person who carries out these activities. This amendment of ours speaks of the fact that, within the framework of the economic service, it is only an intervention first transport. Which means that the local community is setting up and setting up a service that brings the deceased to suitable institutions in the event of accidents, crimes and other special circumstances, while in the case of natural death, individuals and citizens can decide for themselves who will be selected for this first transport of the deceased if necessary. It can be a public company, so there can be no mistake, but it can also be any other company. In short, we give citizens only a choice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u176	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 22 for them and 55 for them. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 19. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 55. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 58. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 55. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 63. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 55. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. With regard to the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Aleš Cantarutti.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members, honourable Members! It was found that, as a result of the amendments adopted on the home working body, a harmonisation amendment would have to be drawn up. We've already prepared this and we'll submit it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u178	Since the Government has pointed out that after the third reading of the draft law due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body, I ask the proposer to prepare the harmonisation amendment. However, the National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item tomorrow, 14 July 2016, following the adjournment of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian State Holding Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 12. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 1. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much. With the amendment tabled, we want to ensure that it is public and clear to whom state-owned companies are being sold. In short, the ownership of buyers must be known and must be disclosed. Thus, we want transparency in privatisation procedures. Of course, we will vote in favour in our parliamentary group, but it will be interesting to see the result of this vote because it will show clearly who it is for transparency and who wants Slovenian companies to sell to famous buyers, and who wants to keep hiding or hiding behind postal collectors in Luxembourg and Cyprus.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u180	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 4. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. And a nice hello! As I have already said in the debate, voting on this amendment is essentially a vote on the non-trust of the current supervisory board and the current administration of SDH. In the United Left, if the amendment is adopted, we will abstain from the law, or we will support it. In one year, as long as you give us your hand, it will be too late for Luka Koper. The SDH monitors and the administration, with Mr Belic at the helm, will receive another year's mandate and in one year we can write a much better law with a clear withdrawal procedure from what is now proposed by the coalition with this amendment. This is a nomotechnical disadvantage, which prolongs the mandate of the current SDH staff for one year and puts Luka Koper directly at risk. In the United Left, of course, we cannot support this amendment in any way, but at the same time we call on all the Members who are for Luka Koper to do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u182	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u183	Yes, indeed, when you vote on this amendment, you will clearly show how much you care about getting things settled in SDH. By voting for this amendment, you will show that by what is happening in the Slovenian State Holding, you are satisfied and should remain so. Sand in the eyes, sand in the eyes, that a law that has three articles is actually the only article that's worth something, you're closing for one year. And by the way, if I know what the adoption process is, if this amendment is adopted, we will have to talk about this law again in September anyway, because more than a dozen articles will be adopted. It's until September, and then another year, and we'll be really close to the end of the term. The purpose of the marriage was anything but a government coalition with its amendments. Even in our parliamentary group, if this amendment is adopted, we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u184	We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. There were 46 votes against. [[There were 46 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The wording of the draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. The proposal for proposals, decisions by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers is published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Alenke Bratušek will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Alenke Bratušek in connection with the event in Luka Koper, d. d. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. There were 23 votes in favour, 46 against. [[There were 23 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Logar, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Anžet Logar, on the detection and prosecution of banking crime. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 50. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate T. Vatovec, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Mate T. Vatovac, on the privatisation of port and rail infrastructure management. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Trček, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anje Kopač Dark to the question of Mrs. Franc Trče in relation to active employment policy in Maribor with the surrounding area. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 49. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of the question of the message. Branca Grims in connection with the security of the Schengen border in light of recent tragic events. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 55. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Andreja Katič to the Violet Tomić question on the participation of members of the Slovenian military at the rituals of the Roman Catholic Church. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. In Slovenia, the constitutional principle of separation of the state from the church applies on paper. This divorce ensures the impartiality of the State to all its citizens. In Slovenia, as we know, there are citizens of different religions, some even not faithful. If the state privileged only one church, it knowingly discriminates against all its other citizens. In Slovenia there is one religious community, and this is the Roman Catholic Church, which is de facto acting as a state church. But our political class actively allows it. The priests of the RCC are employed and paid as servants of the Slovenian Armed Forces. RCC priests regularly bless public and state infrastructure, such as roads and hospitals. In short, in fact, it's a state church. And this is best seen in the so-called "Massage of the Motherland" in the Ljubljana Capital. No other religious community takes public holidays. The representatives of the State, however, recognise its special role by their participation. Of course, no one prohibits representatives of the State or soldiers from knowingly or privately participating in these religious rites. But this is about the mass the RCC takes on the state holiday. This is not what any other religious community does. If there is a ceremony where the Chief of General Staff and the soldiers should not be present, even in uniforms, it is certainly a mass with which the RCC takes a state holiday. They only have masses for some. They have, say, a mass for collaborators, but they don't have a mass for liberators. But that's their business, and we're not getting involved. What we expect on behalf of many citizens who remind us of this is that the Slovenian Army and officials of this country are not participating in such rituals. I ask that this be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u186	Now it's just right to tell you that you need some peace there. You didn't get the word. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you. The explanation will be very brief, for I will use the words of a Member who sits only two seats away from you, and belongs, as you know, to the Slovenian transitional left. And what did he say? "Europe will either be based on Christian tradition or it will no longer be Europe." That is the answer to everything you have said, and of course I will vote against it. I just hope that one day you'll all understand his words.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u188	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 8 votes in favour and 63 votes in favour. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 63.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At its next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen to the question of the question of the abuse of funds from the reserve fund of multi-housing buildings. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Madam President. Look, my question as a matter of fact has been raised in this mandate for the second time. But this is an example, I think it's a series of cases, the most extensive one is in the place where I come from, so Lenart in the Slovenian Gorges, where Servostan can be translated through the reserve fund of tenants of the Lenart residential buildings, whose apartments were managed, at more than EUR 450 000 from the reserve fund. Many pensioners, low-income residents today cannot recover many blocks, cannot make facades, heat facades, environmentally acceptable and so on. This is a whole series of matters concerning legal voids in the housing law itself. This company had trade and housing management under the same account. The reserve fund was essentially a barant and had as some kind of means of conversion in the trade sector. I want to say that we have once again the experience of a new company, where, say, residents or people who are members of the House Council cannot look into reserve funds. And such information is full of all of Slovenia. It is the use of these funds for other purposes than the original. It's about insurance for these assets. I believe, as well as a whole range of experts, that we have a legal void in our marriage. That is why I ask you to support the debate here in the National Assembly so that me and the team can present you with problems regarding housing law. I'm afraid there's gonna be more of these old ones. I think that you come from different parts of Slovenia, I fear that if you also look at a number of building managers, their accounts, in particular the accounts of the reserve funds, so that you can find that these funds, which they represent mainly to residents of many blocks, do not hold. Residents do not have an insight, this reserve fund is not insured and I believe that the abuse of reserve funds occurs mainly by building managers. For this reason, I ask you to support this question in the House of State, because I think it is absolutely necessary. It'll be good for you, too, because I think there's gonna be another Black Peter in some place that's abusing housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u190	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Zvon Lah's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen to Mr Zvonka Lah's question on new spatial and building legislation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u191	In view of the preparation of the new construction and spatial legislation, I asked the Minister whether the legalisation of black buildings would be included in this legislation. We know that in Slovenia about 300,000 buildings are built on black or in non-compliance with regulations. I didn't get an answer. Legalisation is expected to take place in the same way as the new construction process, which is unacceptable, too expensive and too complicated. I must say, this is a phenomenon of black construction in the Balkans. All the former republics of Yugoslavia have this problem. Croatia and Macedonia launched this in 2011, Serbia and Bosnia in 2014. Former Minister Omerzel was also preparing legislation for Slovenia, but at that time it stood because the government had collapsed. I therefore wondered if this would be included in the new legislation, but I did not get an answer. I don't think that's gonna happen. So I wonder if we really have to wait for Montenegro to do this before, and then we will be the most advanced republic of the former Yugoslavia, the last one going to do this because economic damage is done. And it is only right that this legislation also resolves this if we do not adopt a specific law, like the rest of the republics, to legalise these facilities, to cash in the usurpation of space, municipal contributions and by these means build municipal infrastructure. Many people or families have lived or lived in these illegally built facilities for a long time, and it is not fair that they do not pay you contributions or municipal contributions and other benefits to the visas of those who have built everything legally. I think it's about time we did the same. It would now be a unique opportunity to be included in this new legislation, which obviously will not be as if everything is fine with us and we are working further in the Balkan way. Therefore, I ask that you support this proposal, that the debate be held and that this legislation, which we will address in the autumn, will be amended, complemented by the fact that we also begin to resolve it in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u192	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 51. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Dark to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in connection with the raising of social assistance and the protection allowance. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 53. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matjaž Hanžka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Ms Irena Majcen to the question of Mr Matjaž Hanžka on the third developmental axis at Velenje AC1. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 51. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matjaž Hanžka, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen to the question of Mr Matjaž Hanžka in relation to pollution of the celery cot. We're voting. There were 73 Members and Members present, 20 of whom were voted against and 52 against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič on the parliamentary question of Violeta Tomić regarding compensation for property damage. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. Slovenia is one of the countries to which the occupying forces have virtually not paid war damages. Individual victims and their descendants received no compensation for property damage. This time, I'd like to highlight two categories. The Italian and German units have often burned whole villages out of revenge, and the victims of these measures are sometimes referred to as arsonists. On the other hand, the occupation caused enormous damage to the properties of the exiles. It is estimated that the total damage was only on real estate for EUR 3.5 billion without any interest and revalorisation. The Ministry of Justice drafted a law on the recovery of property damage years ago. Under this law, the Republic of Slovenia would pay compensation to the descendants of the owners of these properties. Of course, this damage should be demonstrated by the use of a record of the war damage done by the human government after the war. The victims and their descendants have been waiting for 70 years. In the meantime, our government has repaired many other injustices, many denationalizations, and completely forgotten burns or exiles. Our government, and so also Dr Cerar said in response to my question a year ago, has not raised this issue in relation to Germany since our accession to the European Union in 2004. Some ten years ago, while some exiles were able to recover some compensation through the Swiss company by collective action and the only activity in this direction is carried out by the Society of Evictions of Slovenia. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this, because it is a lot of people who have been wronged, and I think that 70 years is long enough for them to wait for these injustices to be rectified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u194	We're voting. 68 Members and Members were present and 14 were voted against. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate T. Vatovac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irene Majcen to the question of pollution by Dr Mate T. Vatovec in the area of Ilirska Bistrica. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. There were 18 votes in favour, 53 against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
