ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Alenka Bratušek, Dr. Milan Brglez between 10.15 and 16:00, mag. Bojana Muršič by 1:30, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Irene Grošelj Kosnik, Suzanne Beautiful Šimenko, Iva Dimic, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Matjaž Hanžek, Miha Kordiši, Jan Mahnic, Marjan Dolinšek, Matjaž Germany, Mag. Aleksander Kavčič by 2 p.m., Dr. Dragan Matić between 10.15 and 16 p.m., Luka Mesec and Dr. Franz Ducky. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before I go any further, I'd like to apologize on behalf of the professional services for the unloving event yesterday. The technical problems were so severe that we couldn't go on. We hope that everything will go as it should today, we are on a stand-by vote and all things are supposed to work as they should. We're moving on to 16. On the agenda, that's an on-the-spot proposal for the adoption of the Authentical Explanation 63. Member of the Tax Procedure Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted by a group of four Members with Mr Marijan Pojbič, the first to be signed. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as a parent working body, proposes to the National Assembly that it rejects the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation. In order to present the Committee's proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Urska Ban, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. All Members and Members of Parliament, Secretary of State! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 22nd meeting, on 6. 4. 2016 as a parent working body considered the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Marijan Pojbič. Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service and representatives of the Ministry of Finance also participated in the meeting of the Committee in addition to the representative of the proposer for the adoption of the authentic interpretation. In addition to the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, we received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the proposers presented an additional explanation to the proposal for an authentic explanation in the opening. The applicant considers that, when adopting the Tax Procedure Act, it was not the legislator’s will that a taxable person loses any rights under material law in the event of a self-declaration, but that the only penalty for the payment of interest on a tax basis on the basis of a self-declaration, which the applicant wishes to make clear by authentic interpretation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that, according to the subject matter of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act, the proposed authentic interpretation applied only to the first paragraph governing the institution of the application itself. The authentic interpretation is accepted by the National Assembly when a standard in the law is not sufficiently clear. The representative of the Legislature explained in detail the opinion of the Service in writing below and concluded that the Legislative and Legal Service considers that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation is not necessary, as the interpretation of the rules can be determined by applying the established methods. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance stressed that the authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act is not a suitable way to address the problem of income supplement for migrant workers. It presented statistics on the rate of income for migrant cross-border workers produced by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. It further stated that the Ministry is preparing solutions that will apply to all natural persons who, on the basis of self-declaration, are faced with high additional income payments and not only to migrant workers. She added that the Institute of Self-Login was indeed creating some illogical solutions, which would have to be amended by a new law rather than by an authentic interpretation of this provision. Following the introductory arguments, the Committee has moved, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 150 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to consider whether it is necessary to adopt an authentic interpretation of the law and to vote on the following proposal for a decision: the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considers it necessary to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act. The Committee adopted that decision by four votes to one, with eleven abstentions. In view of this, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposed to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it should not adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u3	I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Marijan Pojbic, to present his position on the proposal of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u4	Your Honor! The problem of migrant workers who are employed outside our borders is very acute and exposed. Very high unemployment at the border with the Republic of Austria has caused people to seek employment outside our borders, most of which are in the Republic of Austria. But the jobs did not go beyond our borders to be greedy of higher earnings, but only because there was no work for them and they also did not want to dwell on Slovenian social and charity with which you cannot survive and do not die. These people gave themselves to the belly behind the bread so that their families could survive with dignity. It is also a fact and logical that employees as migrant workers are taxed in the country where they work, i.e. in the Republic of Austria, so most or some of them have not submitted tax returns in the Republic of Slovenia. As income in the Republic of Austria is lower than in Slovenia, therefore, the difference in tax scales is the reason that migrant workers have to pay income, this difference in income in the Republic of Slovenia. The problem created by the 2013 Administrative Court’s judgment not to take into account in the event of a self-declaration a specific income allowance: for the maintenance of family members, for the costs of transport and nutrition and a special relief for migrant workers for the time it was in force. This judgment was followed by Furs and the result is very high tax fees there also over EUR 10,000. We are convinced that, at the time of the adoption of the Institute of Self-Notification, the 2006 Law on the Tax Procedure was the will of the legislator to take into account the specific income allowances in this case. The facts also suggest that the legislator did not provide that such facilitation would not be taken into account in the event of the application of self-application. It merely determined that the interest on the tax base determined on the basis of self-reporting was to be charged, that is also logical, since in this case the Institute of Self-Reporting would lose its purpose and purpose. Those who use the Institute of Self - Registration would be punished in some way. Therefore, we are proposing an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act, which provides that this Article must be understood in such a way that the submission of a tax return under the Institute of Self-Reporting does not result in loss of material legislation or special income benefits. Authenticity has a retroactive effect and would thus ease the payment of very high taxpayers' tax payments which have been used by the self-declaration institute. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we are very disappointed at the relations of the current government, namely the government of Mir Cerar and the coalition, composed of SMC, SD and Desus, to this critical problem, which pushes certain individuals even to the brink of despair. That is why, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed a long-term solution to this issue as well as a short-term solution, but everything was rejected by the government and the coalition. It follows that the current government has no interest in solving this problem even in the short term, let alone in the long run. Once again, it has proved to be as many times that the government of Mir Cerar speaks one thing, and it is doing something completely different, and this duality, incompetence, the irresponsibility of this authority drives Slovenia far from the desired goals that have been promised by the so-called new faces. I hope that the Slovenians and voters will be more careful in the future to whom they will cast their vote in the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u5	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The Government joins the opinion of the parent working body and considers that the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act is not a suitable solution to the problems faced by migrant daily workers. The system of authentic interpretation is intended to clarify the meaning of the provision to which it relates in more detail if it is fundamentally unclear. According to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the authentic interpretation of the regulation is its constituent part from its application onward. However, if the body adopting the authentic interpretation had determined a substance which did not have a regulation when it was in force, it would not be an authentic explanation, but rather an amendment or supplementation of the regulation. According to our assessment, the justification for the need for an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act is exactly that. The purpose of the Institute of Self-Reporting is to remedy irregularities in the fulfilment of tax obligations while at the same time allowing the taxpayer to avoid consequences in the criminal area that would otherwise have arisen due to failure to fulfil his or her tax obligations. However, it is not the intention of a self-declaration to modify the consequences of late material deadlines, which by their legal nature are puzzling, which means that, by the expiry of the material period, an individual loses the right to claim benefits. Therefore, if the taxable person does not perform an individual act within the prescribed time limit, he loses that right and this fact cannot be remedied by the use of the Institute of Self-Login. The Government therefore considers that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation is not justified, as it aims to amend the substantive meaning of the Tax Procedure Act, which clearly sets out the time limits and consequences of the delay in the elimination of individual acts in the tax procedure. Of course, this does not mean that we are not looking for appropriate and legally supported solutions faced by migrant workers today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! A month and a half ago, four members of the National Assembly tabled a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the applicable Law on the Tax Procedure governing the Institute of Self-Login. Article 63(1) 1. 2007 allows taxable persons to lodge a tax return in the event of an overdue deadline for the submission of a forecast, or if it indicates false, incorrect or incomplete data. The debate on the appropriateness of the deadlines for applying certain costs and personal allowances in the SMC is considered legitimate, since it is always worth considering whether additional solutions could be introduced into the tax procedure and thus make it a more favourable obligation. However, the way in which the content was addressed by the proponent of an authentic explanation is, in our view, somewhat awkward. Why? The problem raised by the group of four Members is not just that but the remaining articles, which clearly define the time limits for the exercise of certain rights of the debtors and thereby reject the proposal's basic premise that the article, or, more specifically, its first paragraph, should be ambiguous. Therefore, with the possible application of the proposal, in the National Assembly we would intervene indirectly and retroactively both in the clear, unequivocal provision of Article 63 as well as in other provisions which we also consider to be unequivocal in the SMC. At this point, it is also worth noting the potential for inequality between the taxpayers who would issue a tax return within the time limit, possibly forgetting the exercise of any of the rights, for example, reliefs to the dependent family members, and then not to lodge a complaint against the issued decision, and those who would not have submitted the forecasts at all by the prescribed time, but only after the use of the Institute of Self-Reporting. For the first to make a statement within the time limit, the tax relief would be lost and others could apply it despite the overdue deadline. Thus, by adopting an authentic interpretation of an article which is not ambiguous, the remaining articles of the law, which also clearly prescribe the time limits by which the debtor may exercise certain rights, such as a relief to dependent family members, do not seem appropriate to us in the SMC, since the authentic interpretation of the National Assembly is intended to clarify the provision of the law if it is ambiguous. However, to change the content or meaning of the provisions, in our view, it is necessary to submit a proposal to amend the law. We do not support the SMC proposal in the SMC Group for the reasons presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u9	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrej Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u10	Dear colleagues, colleagues, representative of the Ministry of Finance! I am convinced that many of the Members and Members present are still well aware of the problem of unfair taxation of migrant workers across borders, especially when we are talking about Members of the North-East of Slovenia and Members of the Republic of Korea. We are not in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, but we are looking for solutions, so we have decided to find one possible solution to this problem, but unfortunately we have come across the committee itself and the whole legislative process that this is not the right solution, that we need to find others. But you have to ask yourself, coalition, when are you going to present something, because no one will be better off from negotiation and analysis. People who preferred to work in Austria rather than live in Slovenia and live from social support should all be thanked here, but no, we would rather tax them unjustly. Even in the endings from which I come and represent Ptuj and the Slovenian Mountains, more and more people come to me who work in Austria and say, "If politics does not find the right solutions, unfortunately this situation, which has been dragging us for several years, will force us to go abroad and live, not just working." And look, colleagues and colleagues, we need to ask ourselves who else is going to live in the northeastern part of the country, or maybe it's even the interest of any of the parties. With the authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act, I wish or wish to make it clear that the submission of a declaration on the basis of self-declaration cannot result in the loss of any right of a taxable person under material law, such as the imposition of tax reliefs, the reduction of the tax base, the non-renewal of certain revenue received, or the enforcement of refunds on excessively paid taxes. We have found ourselves in a situation where a number of cross-border workers get a 40 000-euro position and a payment deadline of 30 days. I ask everyone here if anyone is able to settle such a score. She's probably some kind of tycoon or a bank thief, but I believe there aren't many. This situation has led to the fact that many people do not know what to do, and the country ignores these people and does not deal with them at all. On the other hand, anyone with a little media monitoring and Slovenian politics sees that it is no problem in Slovenia to find money for bank thieves, corruption in health care, illegal economic migrants, privileged or elites and could also list. But there is no means for a nation of its own. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is no wonder that we have a reputation in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u12	Dear President, Madam Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act. The problem of taxation of cross-border workers has been dealt with twice this month on the competent working body. For the first time in the context of the proposal to amend the Austrian Convention for high income payments and for the second time in the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act. In both cases, we in the Desus Group made it clear that the Constitutional Court's decision should be respected in a consistent manner. The Constitutional Court has ruled that relief for cross-border labour migrants is contrary to the Slovenian Constitution, as the selected group of debtors provides greater benefits than those of the taxpayers in general. In practice, the Institute of Self-Login came to life with the use of authentic data exchange, and problems began, particularly for those migrant workers who had not fulfilled their income obligations in Slovenia until then, and consequently did not pay the income advance. Of course, individual cases differ, and solutions that differ from one group to another need to be found. In view of the current situation, in the Desus Group, we are advocating an early arrangement for that group that already has a falling liability and cannot pay it back. Therefore, we pay particular attention to the way in which the payment is made, especially if the latter endangers the social situation of the taxable person. At this point, we welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Finance to amend the existing rules on the implementation of the tax procedure as soon as possible, especially since the new regime will apply to all natural persons and not only to migrant workers. In short, for all those who have difficulties with payment of income and the existing possibility of payment in three instalments is not sufficient. In this way, the principle of equality continues to be maintained, in which we insist in the Desus Group on this issue from the very beginning. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act is unfounded and unnecessary in the view of the Desus Group. We believe that the proposed solutions or possible proposals for changes can only be regulated in the context of the substantive changes to the current legislation, i.e. the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act itself. For this reason, we reject the necessary authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Act already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u13	Mr Janko Weber, a group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act in the Group of Members does not need to be supported because it is in fact beyond the purpose of an authentic interpretation. It is a fact that I am also summarizing only the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that an authentic interpretation is adopted if the legal standard is unclear and needs to be further clarified and then provided with clear guidance on how to respect the law. By no means, however, by authentic interpretation, it is possible to amend the legal text and to adopt the authentic interpretation submitted for consideration, meaning that it interferes with the substance of the law in a way that is actually necessary to amend the law. If we touch on this issue, however, it is necessary to highlight, i.e. the problems of migrant workers, the following fact that we were aware of this problem in Slovenia and have also taken a number of measures, particularly those related to unemployment, generally in border areas where the most labour migrants come from. Thus, the very high unemployment rate in the border areas indicated that, years ago, the Pomour Act had been adopted, that a special programme on the Kolp was also adopted for the elimination of unemployment, that a programme had also been adopted to eliminate unemployment in the Maribor region and that Koroška also had similar status within the Law on the Promotion of Coherent and Regional Development. Fortunately, if I may say so, the unemployment rate has not yet come to such an extent that a specific programme should be adopted. In addition to these solutions, which have been adopted to mitigate the situation of workers in border areas, a law has been adopted introducing tax relief for cross-border migrant workers. Unfortunately, this legal provision, which imposed tax reliefs for cross-border labour migrants, was repealed by a decision of the Constitutional Court. At that moment, there was also an obligation for migrant workers to settle the tax liability for the return, and this is a problem that people facing right now, we can say, are also facing in the government and, last but not least, in the National Assembly, we have been talking a lot about this topic again in the last period. However, it may be necessary to point out that, for example, according to the data we have from the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Administration, 6 000 467 persons in 2014 were those who filed their financial obligations within the time limit. There have been, unfortunately, some that have not been reported within the regular time frame and have, in fact, been left with the possibility of self-declaration, but there is a problem in this option of self-declaration because it is not possible to impose the benefits that you may otherwise impose on income if you also apply for income within the statutory time limit. As a result of this, there have been considerable burdens on individual debtors, and we welcome the efforts made by the Ministry to seek solutions that allow these liabilities to be repaid by hand, while also welcoming the efforts made by the Institute of Self-Login to eliminate some illogical solutions that have been detected but modified by legislation. In doing so, we would like to point out that, while the border area also makes it necessary to solve this problem with all seriousness, as the problem of unemployment is present and even in the future, we may find that the unemployment rate is going to be greater in the border areas than in other areas where, say, motorways are taking place or are located near major urban centres and, as a result, you are better placed to work. We therefore believe that, despite all of this, a comprehensive solution should also be sought in such a way as to try, in accordance with Article 155 of the Constitution, to establish a legal solution, to examine also the public benefit in these border areas if additional tax reliefs are introduced for those working abroad and thus try to resolve their existence. Therefore, authentic explanations such as this moment cannot be supported, and we will not support it in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u16	Dear President, Minister, colleague and colleague, hello! Of course, I cannot first of all pass that Furs treats migrant workers without any concession, even though they actually have children and travel costs. On the other hand, in this country we have an honorary consul of Cyprus, with at least a million euros in tax debt, while still running for public tender. So this is clear evidence that our tax system treats workers and capital owners differently. Let me go back to the migrant day care center. According to the Ministry of Finance, 6 000 467 of our workers received salaries in Austria in 2014. Of these, 6 thousand 086 filed a statement of income in due time, only 381 filed an advance or filed a self-declaration. So today we are talking about poor 6% of daily migrants. I am not stressing this because these 381 workers would be irrelevant, but rather that they would not give rise to false hopes. Among these 381 workers, there are a number of workers who were unable to make allowances for the maintenance of family members, so their payment will be significantly higher than it should have been. Some workers filed a self-report years ago, in which case payments are very high and for many uncontrollable. In doing so, it must be frank to say that it is not discrimination against migrant workers, but in fact the victims of the lack of a tax system are specifically the Institute of Self-Reporting. If I do a little cartooning, it's self-declaration for those taxpayers who avoid paying the tax and eventually change their minds because they know they'll get it. However, the vast majority of migrant workers do not belong to this group, but are simply victims of poor regulations. Let me give you an example of different treatments. If the employee receives an informational income calculation from Furs and the worker does not complain, but submits a self-declaration after the expiry of the period, we make it easier for the family members not to admit it. However, if Furs does not issue an IT calculation to the employee and the employee submits a self-declaration instead of an income forecast, it shall be recognised as such. Our position is therefore as follows. It is necessary to simplify the treatment of laters and, if the debtor fulfils the conditions for relief, it should be recognised as a relief. The appropriate penalty for delay is late interest or fine, but I am not taking away any relief. We therefore agree in principle with the content of this proposal, but we cannot support it for a simple reason, because such a change goes beyond the institution of authentic interpretation. However, we expect the Ministry of Finance to deliver on the State Secretary's promise and to propose an amendment to the law as soon as possible. Finally, I will give our position on taxation of daily migrants at all. We are also prepared to support additional facilities that are based on actual transport and accommodation costs. We know that certain costs are included in the tax base in Austria and this must also be taken into account. However, we cannot support the requirement that daily migrants do not pay the difference between taxes in Austria and taxes in Slovenia. If supported, 6,000 400 workers would pay lower taxes than all other Slovenian workers with the same income. We advocate a simple socialist principle, each one according to our abilities and each one according to his own needs. If a worker working in Austria pays 20 000 euros gross a year, he has to pay exactly as much tax as a worker who earns 20 000 euros in Slovenia, no more and no less. If we leave the problem of relief behind, the problem is not taxation, but that the Slovenian political class over the last 20 years, through privatisation and poor governance, has destroyed economic bases and systems such as health care, to the point that people are sentenced to eviction. The problem is that under all the subsidies and agencies, the underdeveloped regions are not even more developed for a small peak. I am sure that migrant workers in these days, when various so-called rescuers come to them, have not forgotten who has led the Slovenian government for the past 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u17	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State, a very nice greeting to all! The purpose of the Institute of Self-Login, as provided for in Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act, is to encourage citizens who have missed their tax return to remedy this error and subsequently file a tax return on the basis of self-notification. The application of the Institute is encouraged in Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act by the relatively fine effects on the debtor, which are defined as the payment of interest on the tax liability. The loss of the right to exercise transport and nutrition costs, the loss of the right to exercise relief for cross-border migrant workers for years when the facilitation was legally valid, and the loss of the right to exercise relief for dependent family members has distorted the sense or "ratio legis" of the self-application institute. Such an examination shall give the notice that a self-declaration is not paid to the debtor, since in such a case he will be able to lose a number of rights. Such logic of the debtor discourages the use of self-declaration in the event of a late tax forecast, which reduces the efficiency and importance of this institution within the tax law system. However, the consequences of deterring the use of self-declaration may also be a large number of uninvested tax returns. The applicant submits that the dispute over self-declaration concerning the use of relief for dependent family members in the same factual situation has ended with the various judgments of the Administrative Court. Some provisions were in the interest of the debtors and others to their detriment. Clearly, the interpretation of the decisions of the law governing self-declaration was not clear to the courts either. It is therefore entirely appropriate for the legislator to finalize this area with an authentic explanation. Christian Democrats advocate a friendly tax environment, so we support the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the Tax Procedure Act. If the government coalition considers that an authentic interpretation is not an appropriate legislative instrument to deal with this problem, it is urged in this area to deal with the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act without delay. Many other issues and unresolved problems are also raised in this context today. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats are constantly looking for and we also have solutions to many of these problems and we also have answers to many questions, such as: Is it fair for communist revolutionaries to enjoy privileges and for Slovenian independents to be criminalized? Is it fair to use taxpayers' money to recover state banks and, in particular, their Taiwanese loans, of which part ended in tax havens, and to prosecute tradesmen and private individuals who risked their property or a small citizen if they did not settle their deposits in due time? Is it fair for the public administration to continue to act on principle, which is not provided for by law, but not by law, to solve people’s problems? Is it fair that public health and public education have a monopoly that is maintained by taxpayers and that everything that is private is constantly being problematic? And is it fair to argue for 25 years about media pluralization? And last but not least, is it fair to educate young people at home at tax costs, and then to find a first chance abroad for better profits, perhaps a better environment, and a better future? I conclude by predicting that in New Slovenia we will support or reject the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a bill to supplement the law on tax incursion. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this law, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided to submit to the National Assembly a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on tax clearance of accounts. A key part of this law is that this bill provides for the termination of the Law on tax clearance of accounts and the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on tax clearance of accounts to propose and provide for the reimbursement of all costs incurred by the taxpayers in respect of tax goods. There are several reasons for such a procedure and such a decision. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, the number of taxpayers using the tax box confirms that, unfortunately, the realisations have also warned that the tax repositories will result in the closure of the business activities of the debtors and the relocation of those activities abroad. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, when adopting this law, we have already warned that the key argument of the Government and the Ministry of Finance and Coalition, the Modern Centre Party, Desus and Social Democrats, that this law will help to reduce the grey economy, is not true. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that those who did not issue invoices before they were introduced do not issue them today. Official data on taxes collected show that the law has exactly the opposite effects as predicted by the Government of Mir Cerar. The value added tax was raised by €233.8 million last February, which is 4.6% less than last February. In total, the country collected EUR 565 million or a percentage less than the same time last year in the first two months. The fact is that the extent of the value added tax collected is the best indicator of the scope of the grey economy or of working in black. The law on tax clearance or the introduction of tax registers has thus achieved just the opposite effect, as confirmed by the proposed law by the Government of Mir Cerar and the Coalition, the Modern Centre Party, the Democratic Party of Pensioners and the Social Democrats who adopted this law in the National Assembly. In particular, they do not hold information on the costs of establishing software and technical equipment for the introduction of tax boxes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that these costs of establishing both technical and software have significantly exceeded the costs that the Ministry of Finance has stated. However, entrepreneurs are not the only ones affected by the introduction of tax boxes. The extremely high financial costs of the introduction and the bureaucratic violence caused by the tax box have affected both farmers and a good part of civil society, especially companies – firefighting, sports, humanitarian and cultural. At the time of the adoption of the Law on tax clearance, there were also warnings that people are already overburdened by bureaucratic procedures, excessive taxes and that they will face additional financial and bureaucratic obligations, from which only bureaucracy will be paid in Slovenia. The proposal for a law transmitted by Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the National Assembly has only two objectives: the first objective is to abolish the tax box or to limit the validity of the Law on tax clearance of accounts and the second objective is to reimburse all costs incurred by the taxpayers in relation to the tax registers or the compulsory entry into the system of compulsory clearance of accounts. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect mainly coalition members and members of the Modern Centre Party, Desus and Social Democrats to see, however, that the introduction of tax registers was a mistake and that radical changes should be made here.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u21	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u22	Mr President, once again, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The obligation to tax confirmation of accounts for debtors issuing invoices in cash transactions was actually established three and a half months ago as one of the key but not the only measure in the fight against the grey economy in Slovenia. During this time, more than 44 000 debtors have been included in the system of reporting account information to the Financial Administration, and on average up to 130 new debtors are included each working day. Three months after the introduction of the tax clearance of accounts, only partial data are available for small groups of debtors, on the basis of which we can conclude on the effects of this measure in the fight against the grey economy and the final conclusion is not yet possible on their basis. However, if we look at these partial data in a little more detail: in the group of taxpayers to carry out the tax validation of invoices, which are also identified for VAT purposes and VAT on monthly accounts, more VAT was paid in the first two months of the year than in the same period last year. There are also higher net inflows of VAT in the budget than these taxpayers. Moreover, the average indices for these groups of taxpayers deviate fully from the VAT indices. In the group of independent entrepreneurs of individuals and individuals who carry out activities on their own, which were deleted from the register of taxable persons just before the introduction of the obligation to tax the accounts, we find that more than half of them have entered into a regular working relationship or are doing work in a different way, which may indicate that before that, as natural persons who carry out the activity on their own, they have actually done work in an independent relationship. The Financial Administration further examines these circumstances. In addition, the share of irregularities identified in financial management controls has decreased both in the project controls of the grey economy and in the supervision of cash transactions and in the supervision of work and employment in black. Let me stress once again that this year the Financial Administration has also strengthened control in so-called jungles. The first assessments of the impact of tax clearance on VAT revenues as a whole will be possible in mid-May, i.e. within about three weeks when the Financial Administration will have the VAT bill data available to all taxpayers identified for value added tax purposes while being liable for tax clearance of accounts. However, a full assessment of the financial effects will only be possible in April 2017, where the analysis can also cover taxable persons who are not taxable, but are obliged to provide accounting data on corporate income tax and activity income tax. It is only on this basis that the actual effects of tax clearance on all the revenues of the State budget can finally be assessed, with small taxpayers included in the impact analysis. The abolition of the tax clearance obligation would make efforts to limit the grey economy, detect labour violations and black employment and rationalise business in the implementation of tax controls more difficult. It is also not negligible that the economy in particular reminds us all the time that they need a more stable business environment and not so often changing regulations, including tax rules. For this reason, we support the view that the implementation of the rules must first be thoroughly analysed and then advocated for its possible changes. Dear Members and Members! Taking into account all of the above, I propose that you do not support the draft law on additions to the Law on tax clearance of accounts as suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we opposed the introduction of tax registers, as we have also warned from the outset that they will not have the desired effect. Tax payers do not solve what they should; they do not solve the underlying problem, this is a problem of the grey economy. Those who have not previously issued the invoices shall not issue them either now after the introduction of the tax registers. They also failed to register their activities because they do not pay their contributions and taxes and constitute unfair competition for all those who do their business honestly. The number of taxable persons to be used by the Financial Administration, as assessed by the Financial Administration, is much lower than the estimates presented. The financial management assessed that 60 to 80 thousand taxpayers would be used by the tax administration prior to the adoption of the tax registers. The number of taxpayers who certified or taxed the invoices – that is to say, they actually used them – was only 44 000 998 on 15 April 2016, which means that the estimates of the Financial Administration were indeed wrong. The number of tax users indicates that many individuals prefer to use a tied account book, which is possible by the end of 2017. It is not negligible that many are predicting the cessation of activities unless, of course, there has been a change of legislation in this area. Some entrepreneurs or self-employed persons have simply stopped doing business with cash. Many have already closed their activities or have carried them abroad. However, the impact of the closure on the country is quite the opposite, namely a reduction in revenue to the budget or in some cases an increase in expenditure on social security. If we look at the numbers, we see that only in December 2015, so in the month before the tax returns went into effect, the number of independent entrepreneurs decreased by 277. The first annual value added tax data are not encouraging at all, since the inflow from value added tax in February is lower by EUR 20 million than it was in the same period last year, which means a decrease of more than 10%, despite the fact that the inflow of value added tax increased from imported goods in the same period, meaning that the activity of users has actually increased. Our tax holdings are merely additionally burdening our economy financially and administratively. For large and medium-sized enterprises in particular, an additional cost is unnecessary, while for small entrepreneurs it may also be a threat to their existence, as it is an extremely high cost for them; a cost which is much higher than that mentioned by the Government at the time of the introduction of the law. This is not only about the cost of purchasing the tax box, but also about the cost of updating software, permanent maintenance contracts for software and so on. At the same time, the introduction of tax registers also means clearly more red tape. It is not negligible either that Slovenia is very unevenly developed and that access to the Internet is not available to everyone the same way, which means that many entrepreneurs are forced to use the bound account book because coverage with the internet in the area in which they operate is not available. Coverage with the internet throughout Slovenia should be a priority and a basis, but the government of Mira Cerar has decided differently. Tax registers have also affected societies as well as cultural, sports and others. According to the new, if, individually, for example, cultural society, it organises an event where it collects admissions, it needs a tax box, which is a large financial asset for many smaller societies. Some societies have found a solution in collecting voluntary contributions, while others have simply decided not to organise them anymore. All of this points to the complete futility of the introduction of these tax registers. However, there is no mention of the absurdity of the sale in school bazaars, which in their own way encouraged young people to enter the business sector. Tax registers, as has already been said, have also been deeply affected by voluntary fire companies, which are largely financed by voluntary contributions from citizens. Many firefighters once a year organized their own firehouse, gathering some of the funds they later used to buy fire extinguishers; equipment that is important to all of us. We all agree that firefighters are extremely important for the country, that they are almost always the first to arrive at the scene of the accident, and that they often endanger their lives to save people and their property. But it was these firefighters who, in gratitude of the government of Mira Cerar, received an additional financial burden. Many fire companies will, of course, no longer decide to organise an event where the necessary financial resources could be raised to improve and purchase their equipment. A number of farmers have also been affected by the tax credits. All the years it has been stressed that farmers have to start thinking about complementary activities on farms that will, of course, enable them to survive more easily. Many farmers have made up their minds to do so, and now they are being punished with tax boxes. Minister Židan was pleased to stress and encourage the importance of complementary activities on farms throughout the world, and he also supported the introduction of tax boxes that penalise farmers today. It is also necessary to ask about the proportionality of the tax box measure. On the one hand, if we take into account the costs incurred by the Financial Administration with the introduction of the tax box system, the modernisation of equipment, the running costs of maintaining the system, the cost of the work of many inspectors on the ground and all the other costs incurred by the economy, and on the other hand, we can see that the system is not justified with the proceeds or higher revenues to the budget which the Government has promised. For the time being, we cannot talk about more revenue in the budget as a result of the introduction of tax boxes, and that is a fact. Tax registers have proved to be harmful, that is undoubtedly true, I would like to reiterate. The debtors are subject to high financial costs and disproportionate administrative burdens, which is why the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group decided to submit a proposal for a new Law on tax clearance of accounts, which follows two objectives. The first is the abolition of tax receipts and the second is the reimbursement of all costs incurred by the taxpayers in connection with the tax repositories or the compulsory entry into the system of tax clearance of accounts. Throughout the discussion of the adoption of this law, the government has advocated that the law should not be allowed or made exceptions. The law in force certainly follows that. Last month, the government and the coalition did not support the proposal to set exceptions for firefighting companies and small taxpayers proposed by Nova Slovenija. In view of the reactions of societies, farmers, small entrepreneurs and the gradual partial preference of individual players from the government coalition, we expect that our proposal, which also abolishes the tax remittances, will be supported by all parliamentary parties, which, of course, would be the only reasonable decision. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will certainly support the proposed law, which removes harmful tax receipts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u25	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! Allow me to give you a brief overview of the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Bill on Complements of the Law on Tax Certification of Accounts. In the opening, let me reiterate the opinion of the Desus Group, which has not changed since the consideration of the previous proposal for the amendment of the Law on tax clearance of accounts. Members and Members of Desus think that this amendment of the law is not suitable for further consideration. We firmly believe in our views that by means of this proposal to abolish the current law, we would not only lose our consistency but would also undermine the whole purpose of introducing the tax registers. And this is an effective collection of public benefits with the aim of greater traceability, consistency and final stage or, above all, fairness. The latter result in a smaller tax evasion, which results in higher tax revenues, which are further earmarked for different types of transfers for the most vulnerable target groups. Reimbursement of costs to taxpayers by the competent ministry when they may be extinguished, but of course they will not be, but tax warehouses do not seem to make any sense to us in particular as regards the fact that we already know a number of ways to minimize the costs for taxpayers in the use of tax rebates, such as the free use of the so-called mini-taxation, transitional period and other tax advantages, which reduce the tax base under the applicable national legislation. For the reason that the deadline for VAT taxpayers to submit VAT accounts for the first three months of this year has not yet expired, we still cannot tell exactly what the financial calculations for the operation of the tax registers are. However, since we do not have a concrete analysis, this does not mean that these positive financial effects will be left behind. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me do it again explicitly. In the Desus Group, we have been advocates of tax receipts from the very beginning, not least for this law we have also voted, but in Desus we do not support anything blindly and at all costs, irrespective of the consequences, as well as in the tax registers or the Law on the certification of tax accounts. At this point, we are extremely attentive to some of the disadvantages of the effect of tax receipts in practice. This is what we are reminded of, or we are reminded of, by an increasing number of taxpayers. These nuisances, these problems, if you like, we have somehow gathered together and introduced them to the MF and the Financial Administration. At this point, we are assessing that it would be premature to talk about some final solutions and adopt definitive solutions, but it will certainly be necessary to act sooner than just after what year, when data, financial data, can be operated on at the annual level. Nor would we somehow hope to set a limit to which individual business entities would be exempt or entitled to use tax boxes, but changes will be considered but not by hand. In any case, we expect further discussions and appropriate action for the professionals, as the basic point of tax validation of accounts or tax receipts is, if you want, of course, an equal treatment of all stakeholders and of course no inhibition of a free business initiative. In doing so it must not and will not suffer the work and enthusiasm of many, for other important civil society movements, if I mention simply and in an illustration the network of pensioners' societies and many others. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I have already announced, we will not give support to the amendment of the Bill of Account Confirmation in Desus, but we will keep an eye on it; even more so. We are already initiating some initiatives and proposals from the ground, so that some of the identified anomalies will, of course, be eliminated in a deliberate manner. In doing so, of course, we can follow good practices from abroad that we make sense of and adapt to our needs. However, I would like to point out, in conclusion, that the changes to certain articles, which will certainly be in the future, and it is right that they will, in no way, mean the abolition of the whole law, the whole concept of fair and fair tax collection, but only an improvement in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u27	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you again and very much for your welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Even before the adoption of the Complementary Law on Tax attestation of Accounts or on Tax Retails, very many consultations were held, including extensive debates, arguments for and against and one of the important arguments for the introduction of tax rebates, if any, and the economy in particular was to introduce, if already introduced, all taxpayers. This has probably encouraged many who are in this process of implementing the Act, which entered into force on 2 January 2016, to think about how to actually fulfil this legal obligation, and not least how to put aside the problems they face when they want to enforce this legal obligation. It is a matter of different entities, it is also a matter of different situations in which an individual entity operates, so that there are certainly very many questions about the implementation of this law during this period. However, the fact is that the number of debtors from day to day, if we can say so, is increasing and preparing for the implementation of this law. In fact, there have been several debates and initiatives so far, especially in terms of how to exempt some of the debtors, but it has not been clear that concrete initiatives have been taken to stop the use of the tax repositories discussed today. Most those who are experiencing problems wish to point out that some exceptions would nevertheless be sought, although one of these exceptions has already been addressed in the National Assembly, where it has been proposed that some 50,000 euros of annual income be taken into account by the individual taxpayer as an exemption from the tax system. Of course, this would mean that, in fact, 70% of the taxpayers would not be obliged to use tax boxes, and it was very difficult to explain and it is certainly still difficult to explain why those 30 who were supposed to be still liable to tax rebates. Many of the companies that came to us and presented the position of both the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs, as well as the Mountain Alliance of Slovenia and, of course, the Association of Retired Slovenians have gone in the direction of actually exempting companies with turnover of up to EUR 10,000 per year. We are also facing proposals in the area of agriculture, where transport on farms is expected to be excluded, up to €7 000,500. These are the proposals that we face in this interim period and are being dedicated to, but the fact is that the first serious analysis of the effects of the introduction of tax registers will be possible in May. It would be correct for all those who have entered this system, as well as for all those who have not yet done so, to really try to give possible answers to the questions raised and also to show both positive and negative effects in this analysis. The repeal of the law, which has been in force since 2 January 2016, after only two and three months, is also a very negative signal for the business environment, which we say must be such in Slovenia that any taxpayer who wishes to create with us must know in advance what is waiting for him to fulfil all his obligations. This change in a very short period of time is certainly one of the reasons why someone can think about another country rather than Slovenia to carry out their activity, because regulations change too often so that, for example, at least as usual, in a five-year cycle, they can make the investment he has planned. This is in the business environment a five-year period for which it can be calculated, when the investment returns, and what obligations you have in this interim period. Of course, this is a small amount of tax receipts, not so high that it should be planned for a five-year period, but it is a burden that has arisen at the time you enter the tax box system. While the law says that if the law were to be adopted, then all these funds should be reimbursed to the debtors, which in itself means a demanding process, and the question whether it will ultimately have the effect that the proposer wants to represent, if that is why the entities will remain with us and will not leave Slovenia. Here it really has to be asked whether, however, it is not too quickly to change legislation in the tax area that there is a greater reason why someone does not decide for Slovenia, but that you try to take into account the real situation, the problems and then offer solutions for more effective implementation of laws. We therefore expect that a serious debate on the introduction of the Tax Retail Act will be held after May 2016, and that is when it should be given a much clearer response to all those who have pointed to mistakes and have also proposed certain solutions in the past period. Whether these solutions are only and only in such a way as to collect taxes and taxes as we know them so far, whether or not the tax procedure can be simplified in some environments, is certainly also a challenge that will have to be addressed after this period which will pass in May 2016. At this point, however, we consider that it is a premature decision to be able to talk about what is the abolition of the tax liability and that is why we will not support this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, we discussed a similar proposal from New Slovenia, but it did have at least some constructive notes and today's SDS proposal has a rapid demand for the abolition of the cash registers and the reimbursement of all costs incurred. Of course, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on tax clearance of accounts is not suitable for further consideration. The introduction of the tax registers has greatly upset the public, and to a large extent justified. In the light of the fight against the grey economy, we supported their introduction in the United Left, but the implementation and implementation of the law proved to be lifeless. A month ago, we called on the Ministry of Finance to eliminate the most obvious anomalies and start preparing solutions for other more complex problems, but so far no change is in sight. We can cynically conclude that the apparently Ministry of Finance specializes in cuttings to social and overall belt tightening. The prevention of the grey economy is important not only from a public financial point of view, but also because of the easier prevention of social dumping and black work, where workers and workers pay the highest price. An up-to-date recording and traceability system can be an effective and reasonable solution. The tax system has certainly brought an additional burden and it is human that most of this is not the weather, but we can say that it is not an excessive cost and that for small taxpayers a transitional period is allowed until the end of 2017, where a linked account book and confirmation are sufficient via an online application. This transitional period does not ultimately allow for the introduction of other solutions if this proves necessary. Of course, the potential changes and adjustments to the system of tax clearance of accounts should be based on a comprehensive analysis of the implementation of the Law on tax clearance of accounts, on which fair and universal solutions must be drawn up. However, some major shortcomings have shown up from the very beginning. The Financial Administration has clearly explained little of its own, such as in school bazaars, where it is clear that voluntary contributions are being collected, not for purchase and sale in the right sense. Furs also treated farmers differently with complementary activities and the Government and the Ministry of Finance are responsible for such anomalies. It is a positive welcome to the initiative of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the NGO Centre, the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia and the Mountain Association of Slovenia, which has been created in response to the problems faced by small local societies due to the obligation to use tax registers. There are more than 17,000 of these in our country, and their tax collectors are causing a number of problems, and the country has virtually no benefit. In particular, companies acting in the public or general interest should be highlighted and a lasting solution sought for them, not least in terms of the exemption. These societies, such as firefighters, pensioners, humanitarian workers, mountainists and others, perform important and extremely useful social functions, often those for which the state should provide. We expect the Government of Mir Cerar in the United Left to take other steps in the fight against the grey economy in addition to the introduction of the tax registers and to repair those who have not been successful enough. So far, we have not seen on the revenue side of the budget any convincing reform that would at least place a more equitable tax burden on us. Up until now, the Mira Cerar government has been dealing with small fish, and with large fish, it is obvious that there is a smudge on both eyes. In the United Left of Esdees, we consider the law on additions to the Law on tax clearance of accounts to be inappropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u32	Your Honor, hello! The state will only draw the economy out of the crisis; not politics, not trade unions, these are facts. This is an axiom to which Members of the New Slovenia Group are strongly reminded in all discussions on the resolution of the economic and financial crisis in our country. It is the policy which must create an appropriate business environment in which the economy can operate. The key task of each government should be to create a better business environment. The path towards this goal is the tax burden on the economy, the reduction of bureaucratic barriers and the openness of Slovenia to investments abroad. In doing so, the government's confidence in the economy is important, which then generates the economy's confidence in the government. Is the imposition of a tax measure by the current government to improve the business environment? I'm sure we don't. This was also highlighted at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce, which opposed the introduction of the tax registers. This measure is acting in the opposite direction, additional administrative and financial burdens the economy, these are the facts. The latest data from the Ministry of Finance even suggest that the Financial Administration received less than €11 million this February. We have already introduced the so-called virtual tax registers before the introduction of the tax registers. We have already burdened economic operators with the purchase of equipment and programmes in order not to forget, such software must not only be purchased but also maintained and taxpayers have already been burdened by the cost of maintaining this equipment. However, the economy has again been burdened with new costs and new rules. Smaller business entities, including self-employed, self-employed entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises, are the most burdened by tax registers. In New Slovenia, we are disappointed that the coalition did not listen to us and supported our proposals for the exemption of tax receipts for small entrepreneurs and voluntary firefighting companies. By doing so, the coalition could take an important step both in the direction of small entrepreneurship and in the direction of security provided by a number of voluntary firefighting companies. We repeat that the government of Mira Cerar violates its own commitments. In the 2015-2016 Social Agreement, it committed itself not to burden the economy further. The introduction of tax registers is a breach of this agreement. We wonder how many new jobs this measure has brought. Let us also draw attention to the fact that the so-called cashiers do not use the tax registers. The country did not intervene significantly with this measure in the field of the grey economy. These people should be offered simplified flat-rate taxation and encouraged to open up economic activity in one of the forms such as espé or partoo. But we all know how much Slovenia lacks jobs, especially for young educated generations. However, the greatest absurdity of the introduction of tax registers is that voluntary fire companies are also bound by the law to apply them. Is this, a respected coalition, a thank you for their sacrificing and faithful service to people? The law also considers other companies that are responsible for the development and creativity of civil society. Does this mean an incentive for the integration and functioning of citizens in various useful social areas? I'm sure you don't. Therefore, in Nova Slovenija we predict a proposal for exemption from the use of tax registers. The introduction of tax registers is only the continuation of an uncertain and unpredictable business environment in Slovenia. This fact is increasingly highlighted by existing business entities, who, instead of their core activity, must constantly deal with administration and accounting, reading and introducing ever-new and new legislation and related new information solutions. Instead of investing their time, money and energy in governance, in the development of basic activities, they must invest it in accounting, accounting, administration and other accompanying activities. So it is in some way a farce and not a measure against the grey economy. The instability of the business environment continues to discourage potential investors, both Slovenian and foreign, to decide on the opening of an activity or an economic company in Slovenia. In view of the constant changes in legislation, in particular tax rules, they cannot plan the development of activities. Business entities that do not have the sole purpose of making a quick profit, but a predictable business and stable growth, do not, under such conditions, choose to invest with us. The view and attitude on the predictability and stability of the business environment will have to be changed by the current government if it really wants new investors and, of course, new jobs for our citizens. In Novi Slovenija, we will of course support the proposal for a law on additions to the Law on tax clearance of accounts.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u34	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a bill that repeals what we have just adopted. We have already pointed out a number of shortcomings in the adoption of the Law on Tax Retails in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. For this reason, we are now witnessing a number of proposals after exceptions or after amendments to the newly adopted law, especially for small undertakings. The statistics we receive are still vague, incomplete, the effects are still unknown, we see that in the coming months we will have a more complete picture. The problem we are seeing is the implementation of legislation. The policy has pursued implementation more by the stick system than by the root and rod system; not only repressive measures, it is said, but we must offer the economy something that will mean the development of the economy, measures that will accelerate consumption, leading Slovenia to the right path. The worst problems the law brings is that it does not devote enough to those who do not even enforce the law, it is said, to those who even issue bills. It is that we have forgotten the accessibility of the Internet and technological problems, and it is that some independent entrepreneurs are doing this through a fine-tuning work and that is why this kind of activity is failing. If we focus on the informal economy, we see that the government has not brought a comprehensive solution. The informal economy means a banned economy, the so-called black economy, with which we are understaffed. It is a grey economy we are dealing with, but it is an emphasis on those who have already paid the bills, not those who have avoided it. In particular, I would like to highlight the segment of the so-called white informal economy, which is what we have been doing for the last month. It is the emergence of tax oasis and it is the tax avoidance of those who set up companies abroad and avoid taxes, which can be said to optimise taxes. Here's the real segment that the government needs to get rid of, and here is a percentage of the amount of unpaid taxes that these small entrepreneurs have. The problem is the involvement of state institutions, data exchange, exchange of databases and different views. If we ask lawyers, they will say that they are only interested in what is illegal, if we ask economists, they will look at taxes and profits, and the politicians are, of course, looking for social effects and what this will bring to voters. All the measures taken by the Government are in the direction of increasing repression, which means an even greater escape to the informal economy in the grey economy. Thus, to prepare measures also in the preventive area, to encourage the economy, to encourage investment, these are the right solutions. But for the worst cases, of course, repressive measures. To conclude, the proposals before us and the proposals to be implemented by the Government are not somehow in line. There are pressures on certain groups, but there are no integrated solutions. The government does not solve the problem in its entirety, and only through partial and repressive measures is it trying to resolve the situation and collect more taxes, which means that more will try to avoid taxes. In this context, we expect the results to be known in a short time and also the responsibility of those who have advocated such measures. Given that there are no data to date and that the proposal is too radical at this time, we will not support the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Bozič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u36	I had to make sure for a moment, given yesterday's events, that I had the right opinion. Dear Presidents, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Financial Administration, colleagues, colleagues! The law on tax clearance of accounts is a matter that many have thought about so far. We included it in our pre-election programme as an important project in the SMC, and then we also entered it into a coalition contract, and finally, in the middle of last year's year, we also legalised it. We consider it an important step towards limiting the grey economy and ensuring a level playing field between the debtors and, last but not least, an important contribution to improving the efficiency of the work of inspectors at the level of the Financial Administration. The claims submitted by the applicant to justify the proposal on the alleged adverse effect of tax warehouses were already rejected in the presentation submitted by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and presented in more detail in the material for this item of the agenda, so I would not repeat them in my position. Also because it is likely that the secretary will then provide further clarifications on the statistics and other data that they have collected so far. A more detailed view of the structure of VAT invoices and other statistics at present shows that trends are favourable or in line with expectations. However, in our view, it is necessary to wait until mid-May when such data are available for the monthly VAT debtors for each of the first three months, as well as for the first quarter of the quarterly VAT liability. It is also likely that, at least in grave terms, it will also be possible to determine, to some extent, how much of the tax-confirmed transport relates to those not included in the VAT system, but will not be comparable, since so far only the annual data obtained by the Financial Administration from the annual accounts and tax returns have been available to this group of taxpayers. This does not mean, however, that in the SMC we stand at the crossroads of time until concrete data is obtained. We are actively monitoring the events on the ground, accepting some letters and having several meetings with interested public. Some have put forward concrete proposals which they believe could further improve the system of tax clearance of accounts. Some have also presented solutions that interfere with the areas of other laws, which so far, due to somewhat inconsistent implementation, did not pose specific problems. The assessment of whether to approach updates will be carried out as soon as specific figures are available to indicate the urgency of such improvements. It should be recalled at this point that the Law on tax clearance of accounts governs only the obligation of electronic confirmation of invoices paid in cash in real time, with the operational implementation of certain provisions being regulated in more detail by sub-legislative acts. The obligation to issue invoices and thus certain specific treatments and exceptions is also governed by other legislation; in particular the Value Added Tax Act, the relevant regulation and other legal or sub-legal acts. When we talk about possible improvements, it is therefore necessary to take into account those rules which actually regulate this matter and not just the Law on tax clearance of accounts. Another observation should be made in this regard. Already in our position in connection with the Law on tax clearance of accounts at the previous plenary session, we have pointed out that, in reviewing the structure and number of issues and initiatives, we have seen that many of the debtors who should have been able to present their accounts in order to carry out at least part of their accounts to date have not done so in accordance with the legislation in force. We have often observed claims that the Law on tax clearance of accounts for certain activities has established an obligation to issue invoices, which, of course, is not true. It requires only and only confirmation of the accounts that the debtor is obliged to issue. It is true, however, that only now do certain non-life rules, designed in the spirit of pursuing spending overriding, the vast majority of which are not part of the Ministry of Finance's work. It is also not necessarily the laws or content adopted by this National Assembly, but it is often the plebiscite of sub-laws adopted by individual ministries or governments, whether it is safety at work, fire safety, food safety or famous HACCP, we often switch regulations to sanitary equipment, various licensing, certification, consenting, certificates and so on. These rules have a profound impact on people's daily lives, both on the functioning and competitiveness of our economy and also the public sector. With the introduction of tax registers, many taxpayers have begun to focus on all other regulations with increased care. The reason lies mainly in the drastic facilitation and improvement of the control of tax and labour-related content, which can then be easily intertwined with all other areas. Those who have so far failed to ensure full compliance with the regulations are under extreme pressure from the consistent monitoring of the network of all these administrative and technical regulations. It is only now clear what has been adopted in the past, both at the level of the National Assembly and the Government, and not least at the local authorities; perhaps quickly, without sufficient in-depth consideration, what will be the effects in practice and how this will affect the operation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, whose administrative burdens have a disproportionate impact on them compared to large enterprises and systems. In a good year and a half, since we have actively entered politics, we have been confirmed by the pre-election thesis that in the past we have been more papal than the pope and many other regulations that are much stricter and more complex than we should have been, either because of ourselves or because of the often excessive tendency to turn ourselves over to the international public and institutions. In this regard, Members of the SMC call on the Government to make further efforts, in the framework of the coalition agreement and our pre-election commitments, to demobilise the system, which is already under way, but is often due to the competence of more ministries over individual content, too slowly. In the area of the powers of the Ministry of Finance, much has already been done, since the simplifications in the Law on the procedure of last year, in the field of customs procedures in this meeting of the National Assembly and in the short term also in the field of excise duties, where significant progress has been made from the proposal and the accompanying public debates. However, the intensity of these activities is certainly crucial for the administrative decommissioning of the economy, as well as of the public administration in the direction we set ourselves in the SMC during the pre-election period. On the contrary, in the SMC Act on tax clearance of accounts, which has passed so-called tax bills, we do not take into consideration. We don't think of him as a fly of authority who's thought of something, and in the next month, he's going to eliminate it like a skyscraper. Our initial view is that it represents one of the important measures to combat the grey economy, employment and work on the black essential contribution to the effectiveness of financial inspection, the establishment of a level playing field on the market and so on. This is an important and necessary measure, and as already mentioned and demonstrated in our activities so far, we do not exclude any future improvements to this and related laws. As in the previous positions, the proposaler mentions that this law has no effect on the area of slums. Of course it doesn't. Finally, with the introduction of automated recording and analysis of commercial transactions, the Financial Administration has made it possible to significantly improve the organisation of the work of inspectors, since, in the past, only about half of them were involved in the verification of commercial transactions in a way that was time-consumingly spent on both inspectors and debtors, since it was only through the introduction of confirmation of invoices issued in real time that it was possible to make it significantly easier to identify those debtors who were potential violators and, in their case, to a significantly greater extent, to carry out remote and effective controls. In doing so, those who operate in an exemplary manner will, if ever again, host financial inspectors at their premises. The Financial Administration can now target several inspectors on the ground to verify the unfair competition represented by the so-called shotguns. In summary. The efficiency of the system, although it already appears, is still somewhat premature, as more data will be available in the middle of May on the basis of which it will be possible to conclude in this or that party. The system has burdened the Financial Administration or inspectors and allowed them to carry out their tasks more effectively and to focus their time savings and energy on other areas that are burning, such as storms and so on. The initiatives addressed to the various stakeholders in the SMC are carefully monitored and complemented by discussions on the ground, and if, in the short term, the available data points in the direction of possible improvements in the legal solutions, we will undoubtedly be able to do so. Finally, both the governments and SMC Members and coalition partners show that the talks run at a number of levels from media releases and activities. We cannot support the SMC proposal in the SMC Group on the grounds that have been substantiated and so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The drafter of mags has the floor. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor. After presenting the views of all the parliamentary groups, we can conclude that the introduction of the tax registers is a new fiasco for the government of Mir Cerar and the coalition of parties of the Modern Centre, Desus and Social Democrats. For what? Because, in fact, despite the fact that the majority of the groups of Members said that they would not support this proposal, but in the debate itself and in the presentation of their views, all the groups agreed that this law on the introduction of tax registers was a mistake. Above all, these warnings, which we have expressed in the SDS when introducing the tax registers, have now proved to be a reality in practice. By this, you would say that you agree in some way also with the SMC, Desus and SD. We can read the statements made by the Minister of the Jews that he agrees with the amendment of the law that those who have less than €7 000 500 should be exempt from the tax box if I have the right information. You've come to realize that you've done a great deal of damage with the school bazaars, that you've done a great deal of damage with firefighters. We can also read this from the media. These are all the facts that we have already pointed out in the SDS at the time of the introduction of this law, but this government and this coalition have been so assertive that you have not taken these comments and proposals into account because we come from SDS. Dear Secretary of State, I am personally confident that you will now make even more chaos with these changes that you are predicting. I personally believe that every law that is in force in Slovenia is bad if it has exceptions. Your system will collapse like a domino. I am sure that in May, June, you will be making a change in the legislative process and supplementing the tax box law, because you have already admitted this somehow today. You're going to go with some exceptions, and there's probably going to be another part of the disgruntled why they're not among these exceptions. I'm sure you'll make more of this mess. The only relevant solution is the abolition of tax boxes in full, as proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and the return to the virtual cash register system. I warn you, with exceptions, you will do the domino effect and will cause even greater dissatisfaction. It is also true that you have missed out on forecasts of costs for the establishment of both software and technical equipment. These costs for individuals turned out to be significantly higher than you predicted. The fact is that December 2015 was record-breaking after the closure of the espies in Slovenia after December 2012, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that the main consequence of the closure of these espies is the law which predicted the introduction of tax registers. Above all, we cannot buy the story sold by this government and the coalition of the Modern Centre Party, Desus and the Social Democrats, so that the taxpayers will reduce the grey economy. The distinguished Secretary of State, this government and this coalition actually promote a grey economy; you encourage it because from day to day, from month to month, you increase tax burdens both for the economy and for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and increase administrative measures. These are all matters that encourage the grey economy in Slovenia, not the fact that the tax grey economy will be reduced. For he who is before 1. 1. 2016 did not issue invoices, do not issue them after 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And because of all your additional costs, a lot of people have decided to work in black rather than introduce tax receipts. Madam Secretary of State, in your position, you mentioned that you have taken several measures in this government to curb the grey economy. Since you are speaking in plural, please list three measures you have taken as a government to reduce the grey economy. I expect you to list at least three measures taken to reduce the grey economy. Look, we warned you when you referred to the country of Croatia when this law was introduced. But Croatia has taken a two-step measure, introduced so-called tax receipts, at the same time reduced tax rates; you have actually raised tax rates and introduced tax receipts! It should be pointed out that you, this government and this coalition, have consistently introduced a higher value added tax rate. You have consistently introduced a higher value added tax rate, while also introducing tax registers. According to all available data, the inflows from value added tax to the Slovenian budget are decreasing. However, the case of Croatia, which you had to establish, is another fact that after these tax revenues have been introduced into Croatia's budget, there has been an increase in tax rates, even though they have been reduced. But you have raised tax rates, introduced tax receipts, and there are no other logical matters as if these revenues are falling. This is what we have warned you, Madam Secretary of State, and we have also warned you about the coalition, both in the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee and in the plenary session of the National Assembly. However, you did not take account of these proposals because they came from the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think that we can all be concerned about the functioning of the Ministry of Finance in the National Assembly, especially citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Secretary of State, two days ago there was an alarming news that most media were trying to get under the carpet. The revision of the 2016 budget has resulted in a deficit of 300 million higher than you predicted. 300 million higher, for the first time in the history of Slovenia! The public deficit was yours to defend the achievement this government has made in order to make it 2.2%, but now it has turned out to be 2.9%, because you are hiding in DutB's claims. I know that you will say that there have always been derogations in the revision of the budget, indeed, but never in the history of Slovenia for another 300 million, a respected secretary of state. We read that DUTB is before insolvency, 50 million extra money will have to be given because you went with the attachment of Factor Banka and Probanka to DUTB, you went through a simplified liquidation procedure to cover up certain issues. The new Ljubljana Bank is without three supervisors, the new Ljubljana Bank is without proper leadership, they have vests. The Secretary of State, as Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, you are responsible for this. After the damage with the real estate tax, which you've done a lot here, you've been rejected by the Constitutional Court. And today these things are repeated with tax receipts and with everyone. Coalition, let's imagine!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to touch on some of the issues that have been raised today and concern the tax registers, but before I do this, if we are opening other topics, it is right to open them up accurately and quote accurate information. The audit was not a revision of the budget, but is a revision of the state sector and the budget is accurate and has not changed, except in one small part, due to new data on the revision of corporate income tax. So I can get back to the tax office. Some claims were made that did not hold. First, claims relating to the collection of value added tax in the first months of this year. You provided data for January and February. Let me remind you that VAT is charged at a one-month delay, which means that January data covers the assessment or calculation of the value added tax for December and February data for January. However, if we look at the three-month data, then we need to find out two things. First. Comparing data monthly is misleading because different things happen during the year. The first is that we have a transitional year this year, which means that much more value added tax returns were made in February this year than was actually paid. In addition, if the VAT day falls on the weekend as the last day of the month, the payment may be made without delay on the first day of the next day and must be recorded as soon as the next month. This makes the comparison of tri-month data much more relevant. The three-month data for January, February and March show that revenue from value added tax increased by 5.5% in the first trimester of last year. The VAT refund after the calculation remains approximately at the level of last year's returns, while payments after the calculations increased by 4,2 %. This information does not include value added tax data from imports that are separately charged. In short, data on actual value added tax revenues during the first trimester of this year show a more favourable result than was initially presented or attempted to be presented. In my introductory discussion, however, I said that a more detailed analysis of activities where cash payments are mainly used shows that this increase is even higher than the average growth of 5.5%. About the abolition of independent entrepreneurs. In fact, in December 2015, there was a greater abolition of activities or a greater removal of business entities from the taxpayers' register. 3 000 274 have been written out, of which 700 have been engaged in agricultural activities, due to the changes we made in the area of income last year. Approximately 40 %, 2 000 579 independent entrepreneurs, which were analysed in more detail, entered into regular working relationships. Approximately 13 other percentages work in other contractual relationships, indicating that 53% of the deleted taxpayers of natural persons who carry out the activity actually engaged in a dependent activity. However, due to increased supervision, both in the field of performing work and employment in black and due to the expected control of this area through tax registers, they have decided to regulate their legal relations or working relationships as is the case. In addition, 28 % of these debtors who have been removed from the register have retired. Again, this is not due to the amendment of this legislation, but to one another, the Law on Disability and Pension Insurance. Further on, the little pledges. We need to ask ourselves whether it is an administrative burden for a small debtor, especially those who engage in non-profit activities, to think of companies and similar debtors, whether it is an administrative burden for them to confirm whether the accounts represent an administrative burden for them to issue accounts. As usual, when new legislation is in force, compliance with existing legislation is also over-exploited. And in January and February, they showed that a number of debtors who should issue bills under the applicable legislation do not do so under VAT legislation. We are now faced with a dilemma as to whether it strictly insists on these debtors that they should issue accounts and that we should only forgive them from the validation of accounts, or whether the obligation for them to issue accounts is appropriate or reasonable or not merely an unnecessary administrative burden. This consideration was made at the Ministry of Finance and on Tuesday we submitted draft amendments to the Regulation implementing the Value Added Tax Act, where we propose a certain waiver of such administrative burdens. Of course, it is controlled because we do not want to trigger chaos, but we still insist on the position that if an account has to be issued and paid in cash, it is only right that the bill issue is also followed by confirmation through an agreed system of clearance of accounts. Tax havens and rainforests. In my opening remarks, I said that as far as the storms are concerned, we have introduced a special slum monitoring project on the Financial Administration this year, and this is actually being implemented. A specific tax oasis project is also being implemented. Work so far on this project has resulted in an additional tax return of 24 million and these activities are being accelerated. By changing the international climate with regard to tax havens, we are also faster and easier to access information from foreign financial offices or foreign tax offices, which is why these procedures can be faster this year. However, we still have to bear in mind that we must meet extremely high evidentiary standards not only in administrative proceedings but also in court proceedings. Preventive activities shall also be carried out. We are also, in fact, trying to prepare measures or implementing measures that aim to raise awareness and also reward those who fulfil their financial obligations. Further administrative simplifications are forecasted for the middle of this year when, in accordance with our plan, we present the amendment to the Tax Procedure Act. But the main work in this area is not the adoption of legislation, it is the implementation of appropriate measures on the ground, and the Financial Administration is paying a lot of attention to this. As regards the reduction of tax rates in Croatia. Yes, they have been reduced, but we are already applying a lower tax rate for a lot of what Croatia has reduced only when tax registers are introduced. Differences in additional revenue – yes. Remember that we have already raised VAT revenues by about 100 million per year with measures to combat the grey economy. So we are instituting, we have introduced tax receipts as one of the following measures, not as the first one, and in this case, of course, you cannot expect the same financial measure, the same financial impact as if it is a measure that you apply in essence from nothing. What are the other measures to combat the grey economy? I have already mentioned the area of tax havens; I have mentioned the area of rainforests; I have also mentioned intensive work on prevention and black employment. Here the Financial Administration records good results in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate. The whole type of activity is leading in this direction, whether we refer to it as the fight against the grey economy or not, but they produce results in this particular area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Dr. László Göncz. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u42	Good afternoon, colleagues. I also welcome the students from the Sloveniangrass High School! Today we are talking about tax checkouts. The Ministry of Finance has presented the introduction of tax receipts as one of the fundamental measures in the fight against the grey economy. But it seems to us, at least in New Slovenia, that this fight against the grey economy with the tax registers will not be successful because you have absolutely nothing to do with the tenfold internet connection with the Financial Administration if someone does not issue the accounts. Those who want or want or do, cheat, today will be able to do so — with or without the tax box. As a result, however you turn things around, a tax measure is a tax measure for good and it is a criminal measure for good people. Those who worked in accordance with the rules and had a fair and fair manner prior to the introduction of these tax registers, which are directly related to the Financial Administration, also had special cash registers where it was not possible to delete the account. Therefore, there was absolutely no reason for those who followed the rules and rules to introduce these tax registers. For those who cheat and avoid paying taxes, this measure will not be taken. Of course, you're probably asking me now, but what is it then that we would fight against the grey economy in New Slovenia. We have a solution, and this is to fight against the grey economy to effectively fight only by reducing taxes and introducing flat-rate taxes. These are the two most effective tools that are being picked up anywhere in the world. Lower than taxes, believe me, fewer people will wonder whether they want a service or a product with an account or not. More than taxes, the question is often asked, whether with or without an account. The point should be for all of us in this country to ensure as low as possible the taxes paid by as many people as possible. Unfortunately, today, in this country, those who pay taxes are forced to the maximum, while some find all kinds of walks, tax oasis variants, to avoid paying those taxes. This, of course, is wrong, it is not fair, but the only thing that actually works in this area is to reduce taxes in such a way that people will simply not be paid to cheat anymore. The point is, the system has to be made in a way that doesn't pay off some people, that people don't get paid no more, that they don't take the bill. This should be a basic guide for the preparation of any, including future tax reform. On the other hand, I said there was a possibility of flat-rate taxation. Look, I've met some entrepreneurs these days, and all these little entrepreneurs who have one or two employees are all talking about how these tax receipts are a disaster for them to cause them a lot of trouble. Yesterday I listened to a number of examples of tax inspectors walking around the chocolate festival in Radovljica and hunting these little chocolate sellers for minor and minor errors. If that's the point of financial inspection, then God help us. I would understand that a financial inspector would sit there and watch some salesman, and if, I don't know, three, four, five, if you want ten buyers not to issue an account, then it's a clear rule to punish him. That the tax inspector hunts you down and tires you out because you sold some chocolate and the buyer didn't take the bill, then it can't be the seller's fault. I mean, these are such small details, which drive people crazy, weigh them and, of course, the government, the finance ministry and, of course, the whole of our Parliament, because outside this house no one knows or very few people know that Nova Slovenija already opposed the tax registers at the start. People outside this house simply say that, yes, you have accepted in this House, it is your fault that we now have such and different problems. And whatever you do, no one has a problem with flat-rate taxation. Sometimes I would like, say, the Ministry of Finance to explain more about what the problems of flat-rate taxation are, if everyone is interested in them. If they are interested in flat-rate taxpayers, they would know clearly what their taxation is, what kind of tax they have to pay and then not have to deal with any cash registers and other technical details. In this way, we would significantly simplify our business and make it more effective. I would like to hear once from the Ministry of Finance what that main, key argument against flat-rate taxation is. For the next 10 minutes, I could tell you about the problems tax boxing, for example, for the fire companies I have already talked about, and I would like to save some time for my colleagues, who certainly also have very specific field experience and will be able to add something in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Get Mr. Franz Breznik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! In some substantive analysis, I will not go three months after the introduction of the tax box into whether it is justified or not, because I think it may be premature for this to happen, but the fact that we are discussing a very similar subject in such a short time is the second time, which undoubtedly represents or conditions that there are probably some problems in this area. These problems relate to those, I'll say, the smallest taxpayers, one or the other. I listened attentively to the Secretary of State when it was mentioned that after the first two months there was a slightly more tax than that of the year before, and she also mentioned that there would be a more consistent analysis of the possibility in about a month after certain information arrived at the Ministry of Finance. I can agree with this, but I must point out that I cannot agree in any way with waiting for any changes and corrections to the law, especially in the event of the greatest problems that experts can already see and know, only after May 2017, when there will be some more in-depth analysis. We in the field today, as has already been pointed out in the positions and also now in the opening or first debate, to see that in certain farmers producers, in societies, there are obvious problems in school bazaars and probably no quantity of this volume reaches even 2% or perhaps even less of the total tax amount collected on the basis of tax registers. So, clearly, these are questions that we should deal with immediately, I will say immediately, after the first inconsistentity observed. I also do not want to mention here all that was already stressed at the previous similar meeting when the meeting was also explicitly called for this purpose, but I certainly believe that those solutions that may have taken the form of a flat-rate with certain taxpayers could have been a solution. This option was also mentioned, which has been highlighted by the Minister of Agriculture in recent days as regards agricultural producers. From the point of view of Prekmur, I must point out that this possible solution is, at around 7,000 euros, to be deleted, likely to be acceptable or acceptable, and in particular in the case of our area, would contribute significantly to facilitating the functioning of the taxpayers in this area. But we also have to be absolutely honest with you, although we are talking about taxpayers, but this is mainly about farmers and purely miserable things. There is also a lack of clear information on how certain producers should proceed. I must also point this out that I recently, because some people have asked me about very specific questions, I have also asked the Financial Administration, the Director-General, a few weeks ago, about a very specific case – unfortunately, there is still no answer. So, even though I believe that quantitative activity at Furs has resulted in a huge amount of work, I believe that, at least in those cases that can be resolved and resolved very quickly, this operational body can be more flexible. Let me finish. I just wanted to point out that with the most urgent things that can be resolved without any major conceptual changes, we should start the process quickly, because this kind of anger or the discomfort of those who are actually eligible for criticism could be largely eliminated. You need to know that, and perhaps most of you similarly understand this thing, that people are so thinking that the biggest abusers of the system, unfortunately, with this law or tax box, are not caught and are hard to receive, but the smallest one, which is practically quantitative, as I have already tried to estimate, may not reach a percentage of the total influx, but the least. This injustice is most sown in the sky in this case, so I expect that, on the basis of interim analyses, the Ministry will try to find solutions at least for the most pressing cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Get Mrs. Urska Ban ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u46	Vice President, thank you for your word. I have also heard from my fellow Members today, as Mr Dobovšek said, that this is a radical marriage proposal that we have put forward by those who have tabled this law. Look, I'd like to correct those words -- we're going back to normal. By abolishing this unfortunate law of yours and adopting our proposal, we return to normality. What's normal? Normality is what Austria has right now. It is normal that Austria did not go to online cash registers, but went to offline cash registers. Why did Austria go to offline cashiers? Because, despite having fewer than five problems with wireless Internet and Wi-Fi, she was aware of all the problems she was having. Then I'll explain what problems are actually in the field. Furthermore, Austria also introduced a flat-rate for those small producers. It should be noted that, on the one hand, Austria has several times the average size of the farm that Slovenia has because of previous policies that have destroyed large farmers or middle farmers and have led them to a break. Once, in modernising the public administration, even in theory, we talked about the service function of the state, we talked about rationalisation, transparency, we talked about eliminating bureaucratic thinking. Most of the time, we used the word "direction" to the users. Now let's see what people are telling us. Some of you are theorists of tax law, which you have never worked in a real environment, except for rare colleagues and colleagues, to somehow exempt them, and which you have never worked in any international environment. I will point out some of the problems that farmers from the public tribunals have about agricultural policy, because we also talked about the subject of tax registers in the municipality of Jurovski. The director of the Dobrina Association, one of the most successful emerging cooperatives for sustainable local supply, which is mostly in the media, Mr Denis Ploy sent me a letter with a complete problem of small producers, namely additional activities of farms selling these products on various markets. Now look what they wrote. For example, a colleague of Lah, who is even more familiar with the agricultural field, is likely to spread this debate, because there was one of the main personalities and acquaintances of this area on this public tribunal, but I will also try to, because we have a secretary of state, also somehow mention some of the things that are happening on the ground now. What did they write? The use of tax warehouses in markets is almost unsustainable. You sell marmalade, strawberries and apples on the market. Marmalade is a complementary activity, so you have to issue an account, strawberries are a product like another activity, you have to put out an account, for apples which are a basic agricultural activity, you don't have to put an account out. The same is true of vegetables: cabbage, sour cabbage and salad. The cabbage is a basic activity, sour cabbage complementary activity and salad due to Article 69 ZDoh other activity. At the tax office, i.e. on the market, you have to post a notice of obligation to issue an account. How do I explain to the customer that apples do not need to be billed because they are taxed on cadastral income? Also, when the inspector arrives and you complete the cash register, the cashier must have an exact sum. It explains even the case of Gorenjska, not just Stajerska. How is this possible in the markets? You need three separate cashiers, room for money. How are you going to bill your clients? Are you going to issue a 2 or a 1? How is this going to go away? This is simply impossible in markets. How am I gonna explain to the client that there's juice in the account, maybe strawberries, sour cabbage, fruit, but no apples? In short, there's still so much misplaced and especially late work for farmers in the markets. Continuation. In January it turned out that at least half the customers turned around and did not buy the goods they wanted. So they leave the market and go to Mercator instead, because they're afraid of a retaliatory measure, that maybe the seller – they don't trust him – won't issue an account for what I said about apples before. Continuation. The conditions in open markets outside minus 5, the cashiers canceled, the printers refused to print the account. The representative of the Ministry of Finance said that this was a poor hardware. You are aware that the price of machine computer equipment is very different. However, for 600 euros, the cashier’s costs have not already been worked at minus 5. Now, if it was minus 10, it would be a bigger problem. Ask what it provides when there is wind, snow, rain, and temperatures of 35 degrees Fahrenheit [35 ° C.]. Continuation. When selling vegetables and fruits, especially sour cabbages, tails, seedlings are wet — how to tap the cashier’s touch screen, for example, all of these have touch screen keyboards. Right now you have to be on the stand one, there's more farmers, and so on. So, one key, the other one gives and sells the goods, so you need two people. The farm has to go to the market with two people. Father and mother are selling, he owns a three-hectar farm, like in Jurovsk. One goes to the market in Mursko Sobota, one goes to Maribor. So for those few sour cabbages and apples it takes two cash registers, twice 600 euros. Continuation. On a big farm, the Internet doesn't work. Look, I'm a member of the National Assembly, based on the location of Cogetinci 46. It's a prize question. What do you think, or do I have the internet over Telekom, over the wire? I don't. I've got Aria. So some commercial provider let me even get on the internet. This appropriation is In Slovenian Gorica, Jurovska dol, in Benedict we have tourist farms where they have as slow internet as Germany knew 15 years ago. And you introduce tax receipts and talk about online! What happens next? There are more people on the online system or especially wireless internet, because the wireless is still, we can say, for us fata morgana, something like that in Slovenian Gorica, mainly because of the configuration of the terrain and because of Telekom and so on, that I will not explain further because I am going too far. Now there are more users on the wireless Internet, the network is even more saturated, there are even bigger problems, and there are even lower speeds. They also cause problems for businesses and, of course, vice versa. Like a sequel. Bureaucratic thinking – continuation. We've been talking about green energy all day, we're talking about a clean environment, we're fighting for the healthiest environment. Every bird Because of one small bird, we cannot have any wind power plants, and we will print more and more paper all day long through tax registers. [[…]] Instead of elegantly calculating, they say, an annual flat-rate which takes into account complementary activities of different productions and which any farm would be happy to pay. However, the final result of the taxes collected would certainly be higher than it will be now, as many productions and complementary activities will be abandoned and you will be mass-promoting the grey economy. Once again, we know that the tax money is a matter of the Ministry of Finance, but no, that is not what Slovenia is trying to do. So if we also want to raise our self-care if we want Slovenia not to – and the purpose of the law from you I will never understand, dear colleagues. Slovenia is not Ljubljana, Slovenia is not, we can call these hotels here seven cafes, which are probably why you wrote such a meaningless law in Ljubljana. This is not Slovenia, Slovenia are also Slovenian Mountains, Slovenia are Dolenjski hills, Slovenia is also Gorenjska, Slovenia is Prlekija, Slovenia is also Goričko – even greater poverty, even smaller farms, which are now largely purchased by Hungarian entrepreneurs and so on that we are not expanding again. So you're destroying a whole range of activities. At the end of the day, I won't be too long. One more thing. Part two of the problem. We are talking about traditional bread baking, we are talking about traditional other activities that are in the village that will die, which will never be established again, because they are usually carried out by older people as well; older people who are not used to this kind of bureaucracy are not used to the Internet, and you take away any more of their joy, the meaning of life, to produce anything else – here I stress – in the rural area where, we can say, shamefully low pensions. The continuation of the pensioner society. Here come the presidents of the pensioners' societies, gray hair sticking in their air when they say they regret in their lives that they've ever heard of a client named Desus. They regret that they have ever heard, and they do not have to believe that pensioners' societies have supported a party that will destroy their welfare. The pensioners' society is going on a trip – an example of five euros each of them collecting this pensioner and need a tax check and issuing 5 euro bills for a trip to drive to the first nearby church for some romance. The pensioners' society, which organises the chess tournament, collects 3 euros, has a cash register of 600 euros and has to issue an account. From the municipality, for example, the local community receives 500 euros for this society. So, with two budgets with all the costs of two-year budgets they receive from the municipalities, they can barely buy a cash register. What about all the other activities they're going to have? All of this shows that you have not worked in the real sector in your life. All of this shows that in life you don't look at what's going on around us. And you always, and Minister Marble comes from the view that we are the top of the world – or what? I don't know. We are a small country in the middle of Central Europe and there is a competitive environment around us. Most young people will move away, most entrepreneurs will move away and move out and even those who have the highest goals in life; those who may run in the future, perhaps from smaller family farms or businesses, will someday be able to run medium-sized or large businesses. You'll all be out of here because of you. At the outset, I said: we have a dictatorship of the public sector, the most pointless public sector that has never worked in real life and that is preparing us laws that do not live among people. And Slovenia, once again respected colleagues at the end when you say we have a radical action. Once again, this is not a radical measure, this is a return to normality. Return to the cash registers we had, just like the Austrians have. The Austrians, of course, have an built-in software program that manipulates, where accounts are deleted, cancels, is impossible, and then they also have a few more inspectors behind them. And that's the whole story that you could and you wouldn't have to do. This is the whole story about the tax box, it's normal, it's life and gives people meaning in general to entrepreneurship, to working on farms, to the survival of people and to those who are still at peace today, that they still have meaning, that they are useful in society and that their knowledge, experience and all in those, we can say, mature years are also useful for life. Last but not least: look, a whole range of societies can dry up in a village where these societies are driven by social, political, cultural life. That's what you put at risk! So ask yourself, sit together and say, look, you're better off doing nothing than doing damage. I'm very happy if you talk as much as possible about the law, because when you come to the National Assembly with such meaningless laws, it's better that you don't do anything. I will not destroy you, be here for four years, enjoy your mandate, but please do not destroy our countryside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has been given to Urska Ban, to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go, Mrs. Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. First of all, let me say that in the position of the modern centre's Parliamentary Skuine Party, we did not say in any way that this law, the Law on tax clearance of accounts, is a mistake. In fact, we have pointed out that all the problems that have been faced at the time of the introduction of this law, which have been mentioned here today, are due to all these problems elsewhere, not in this law. In addition, this law has shown that certain activities or parts of the activity have not been carried out in accordance with the legislation in force so far, nor has the issuance of invoices been issued, as would be necessary, in accordance with the legislation in force until and before the adoption of this Act. By no means did this law prescribe that an account should be issued for marmalade, but not for apples. The problems are elsewhere and in Parliament, if we are to solve these problems, we will have to come with novelties of other laws in order to address these problems, for example by means of the Cadastrian Income Law, where we will solve this problem of agriculture and the delimitation of complementary and basic activities. Then, I don't know, maybe with the VAT law or these problems that have been exposed, who issues the bill, who doesn't, can only be solved by a regulation that is already under public scrutiny. And I'll come back to that a little later. We certainly haven't changed our opinion, and I, personally, have not changed my opinion about tax receipts. We still have advocated what we have advocated since the beginning, since the summer months of last year, and even now for almost more than half a year, twice at the meetings when we discussed amendments to this law, one last month and one today. We still believe that the tax box is not likely to be fundamental, but one of the measures aimed at limiting the grey economy, one of its emerging forms. In order to allow for one of the instruments of improved control, the financial management’s staff capacity to focus effectively on other areas, it is said that the emerging forms of the grey economy and the forms of tax evasion that could not be covered by this law. In my view, they also go towards ensuring competitive conditions between the debtors and equal tax treatment of all the debtors. We often hear that the tax system is unfair because it allows certain debtors who should be in the same or at least comparable situation to avoid paying the tax, not others. Therefore, we certainly believe that this law is not a mistake and we do not support the abolition of tax registers. As I have already said, however, we have twice, even this year after the introduction – we adopted the law on 15 July last year, it began to apply on 2 January, and it is practically four months in use. Secondly, we are already discussing this subject today, and there have indeed been some difficulties in the implementation of these provisions of the law on the ground in the implementation of these provisions. Both our own and our entire parliamentary group have not overlooked all the warnings and we have also been addressed with a wide range of questions, with a wide range of problems from pension, sports, firefighting, mountain and other taxpayers, and we are not yet, and we do not have eyes closed to these problems, to which we are reminded, and we see for ourselves that it is happening in practice and we are practically universally communicating both with the Ministry of Finance and with all the interested parties who must apply the provisions of this and other laws. Thus, we have come to some conclusions as to where improvements can be made. On this basis, amendments to the VAT implementation rules by the Ministry of Finance were also proposed. That's what we support. But all other things, as the Secretary of State has said, will be resolved, and we will deal with matters relating to this law in particular, when we are presented with this comprehensive analysis, which has already been discussed today. What else does it seem important to say in these tax registers? That this law, the Act on tax clearance of accounts, merely prescribed a procedure to confirm in real time the invoice issued for the service or goods provided to the consumer and that the invoice is paid in cash. This bill on the confirmation of an account has not established or enacted any new taxable person. As of 2 January 2016, no one who has not yet had to issue the invoices has to issue it. Speaking of this subject now, it seems inappropriate for us to link the obligation to issue accounts and thus to pay the tax, with the obligation to confirm the account. Here this question is being raised, which today was opened, what is the result, what is the cause of the problems that have been mentioned and addressed here today. In fact, it has indeed been shown that some of the debtors who should have failed to comply with the legislation in order to carry out at least part of their activities. So, until this law is applied. Therefore, there are difficulties in the provisions of that law, which requires even taxpayers to issue invoices. As the Secretary of State has said, it is necessary to ask what the administrative burden is for taxpayers: whether they issue invoices or approve accounts. Like I said, most of the problems are caused by some other law. Agriculture problems, complementary activities related to basic agricultural and forestry activities. These problems need to be addressed through the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Law. As far as I am aware, next week or once at the next government meeting, this amendment will be prepared to resolve this area that Mr Breznik spoke to me about. Progress in the activities of NGOs, particularly smaller societies, as I said before, pension, sports and so on. Here too, it is necessary to ask when an account should be issued and when it represents only an administrative burden. This will be resolved in the basic law, in that law which already imposes on these companies the obligation to issue accounts. As I said before, they're at the Ministry of Finance 19. 4. tabled a supplement to the Regulation on the implementation of the VAT law and address precisely these problems that have been discussed today. It foresees solutions for schools, the problem of school bazaars has been exposed, or for all those events that are exempt from VAT, and collects money at events organised on an occasional basis and for their own benefit. This is one of the solutions proposed in this Regulation, it is said, that they will not have to issue an account and because they will not have to issue an account, the result is that if we do not require them to issue an account, then logically it does not have to be validated. This Regulation also provides for exemptions for non-profit organisations, such as companies, smaller companies, while meeting certain conditions, if they are not aimed at achieving profits, they are mostly led by volunteers and charge prices approved by the competent authorities. All of these are some solutions, but they do not, as I have already said many times today, have a cause in this law, but in others, which imposes upon them this basic obligation to issue an account at all. With these solutions proposed by the Ministry of Finance as part of the amendment of this Regulation, we are also drawing in some way closer to this proposal, which has been addressed to our Group of Members by these small societies, the NGO centres and others. I believe we're going to be in a public debate that's up to 5. 5. Furthermore, certain provisions of this Regulation can be improved. Now, as far as the amendments to this law are concerned, the Law on tax clearance of accounts. As has already been said today, I will not talk too much about these financial results or the effectiveness of the system itself, because it is really necessary to wait at least until mid-May, when such data will be available for monthly VAT debtors for each of the first three months and then for the first quarter of the quarterly VAT liability. At that time, this analysis will be partial, because I also agree with the Secretary of State that a comprehensive analysis can be made once the law has been in force for a longer period of time, and when we have this data and this analysis before us, we can also talk about amending this law, the first is the Law on tax clearance of accounts. All of these changes, which I have previously mentioned under the Rules of Procedure, are unfortunately not directly related to the Law on tax clearance of accounts. As I said, before this law, we will have to come to Parliament with other amendments to the law, which will eliminate certain illogicalities, administrative obstacles, bureaucratic obstacles, which we have also stated in the position of the SMC Group. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Cuz. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. My colleague, Mrs Urška Ban, is a financial expert, headed by the Committee on Finance, an economist, I don't know what else, explained nicely how everything is good and right and how new and new laws are needed to solve these problems. I ask myself whether all these people I have met on the ground are lying about whether they do not have sufficient information, whether they really need to be all users of financial and legal expertise so that they can understand and apply all these rules in a dignified and appropriate manner. What I find is that these regulations and these tax rulings are nonliving, that they bring too much trouble to people, that they cannot normally do their basic work, but are heavily burdened by rules, regulations, bureaucracy and I don't know what else. I trust people who have to use this tax box to have a type of problem. Finally, we know that Internet connections are not all as good as in Ljubljana, although I also have problems in my office with wireless connections, somewhere in the countryside, where there is actually no quick internet connection. This reminds me of the case of a lady who has a complementary activity on the farm. All day or morning sales on the market, afternoon work on the farm, and at evenings it enters from the bounded account book into tax box Internet connections because the internet doesn't work at all before 10:00 p.m. Look, I'm not talking about these sales in markets, but when they're selling in different markets, how much trouble they're getting. This is really not the point of working for people's problems, even I always stress, we want to pay taxes, but in a more normal, more viable way that we can carry out our basic activities, and also give the country what it requires of us. Therefore, these flat-rate taxes in these cases are certainly for small users, for companies, for firefighters – therefore, the tax credits are certainly a great burden and a different way of taxation would be much more appropriate. I also don't know if it's really necessary to wait a year, to think about something when it's clear at first sight that it's not good that it doesn't work, that many have left their activities because they don't want to do it anymore. Do we really want to give more social assistance instead of making it easier for people to work and take care of themselves and their family with normal work? Regrettably, the bureaucrats and in the end we who confirm such laws in Parliament write non-life laws or with holes or ones that are difficult to implement, and therefore part of the blame certainly belongs to us when such laws are confirmed. In Novi Slovenije, we were against it because it seems more appropriate flat-rate taxation. I hope that we will not wait one year to eliminate this nonsense, and that the grey economy should be controlled by more labour inspectors and really find those who are slumming, but labour inspectors are always more likely to report to those who already have their activities reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chuš has the floor to prepare Tomaž Lisec. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would say myself that I look at the tax registers in two ways: for one, the introduction of these was good business, but indeed for a handful of people, and for the other, it was mainly an additional financial burden, administrative obstacles and again a lot of the unpleasant things that were involved. I also have a problem with the fact that the costs of introducing the tax registers were much higher than was predicted, and it seems to me that somehow it was all about misleading, but this is already a permanent practice in this house. Alone as a Ptujcan, I go to the market many times, and I have to say that people come to me who sell things there, and they say, look, now we really don't know if it's here, in this house, when you're adopting legislation, it's taken you away. Because people just kind of count, look at the costs and say the costs are higher than our revenues. That's why more and more people don't even want to work anymore. I get a call from someone in some society and they say, look, what's going on, it's not normal. Earlier, Mr Breznik had said that there the pensioner's society must pay three euros for the chess tournament and tax money. That seems to me to be the most reasonable thing to do, and it probably doesn't make sense. On the other hand, I am confused when it is said that we are fighting against the grey economy, that there will be more taxes collected, and then we see that in the first two months of this year 100 million euros less tax revenue in the budget. Look, I've read this, and don't laugh at me, because I don't think I'm stupid myself, I've had some experience, I've cooked coffee every day for six years, and I still have no problem, even if I ever have to do it again, I'll be happy to do it, every job is worth it, but I don't agree that we're laughing at each other, but that we respect each other's ability to say what he's read and what he's learned. That's why we're here, if we don't, it's better to end Parliament. But that's what I'm gonna say. I am Ptujčan myself, and we are in some way defending the solution in the flat, i.e. the fight against bureaucracy, the fight for low taxes, the favourable business environment, we are in the global world, and we are somehow losing our competitiveness year after year. As a result, more and more young people are moving abroad from year to year with their stomachs for bread, because there will be no foreign capital with us, and the business environment is on the tail of the European Union, as today it is no longer such a problem if you live in such an environment. As a great supporter of the real sector and also of entrepreneurship, I was looking at yesterday's video of the Bob of the Year event, which, in my opinion, was excellently led by Ptujčan Tadej Toš, who said in an easy way what burdened those who create today, namely, representatives of the real sector and entrepreneurs. But let me just say something he said or quote. While he began by not being free today; we only go through: form B1, form B2, instruction M1, instruction M2, small colle, large colleagues, execution of small, write-off to a large, three times copied, double-scanned, recommended, signed with return, bank-notar-law, bank-execution, company-bank, certificate of interest, legal instruction, withdrawal-travel, warning-offence, tax-e-account-punishment. But he concluded by saying that there is still one freedom, and that is freedom of thought, which no one will crush and put an end to. Thus, honourable Members and honourable Members, I propose that we first and foremost think with our heads and logic and today confirm the abolition of such nonsense as the tax box. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Marko Ferruga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! Earlier, it was said that the second time an attempt to change tax registers was made, this time the abolition. It is said that these points today would not be necessary to have an agenda for the functioning of the National Assembly on the agenda if, in government chambers, in government offices, in public administrations, and within the National Assembly, we had much more to do within the meaning of the CAP – a healthy farmer’s mind – and consequently to let them do what is right. So we have this government that writes in the coalition contract: less red tape. Today, we have heard a member of the coalition SMC party saying, "We are calling on the government to de-de-irocracy", but there is no problem in pressing for such nonsense as tax bills. Then another coalition member says, "Other legislative changes are necessary." But this is what the coalition MP says, but if any of this is proposed in the SDS Group, that is less bureaucracy, tax change, but you're against because "like" is not systematic because it's not in your spirit and I don't know what, but in fact you're only bothered by one word, which is SDS, the wrong proposalr, and you have a lot of problems. More. Mantra, paradigm, or theory, however you want, these governments are fighting against the grey economy, which has its consequences – what? More grey economy, less tax collection, less legal persons in agriculture, crafts, societies and so on. On the other hand, as a result, more people are going abroad and more are going to tax havens. Such is the real implementation of your theory of combating the grey economy. Moreover, the theory of this government is also an effective control in specific areas. We may once convene a meeting on the functioning of the Financial Administration in the field, not those who are employed in the offices, and you will see from their practice, of course, if they have the courage to tell them what stupid things are happening to them in the day-to-day workshop. Since this government has introduced a system of socialist thinking, the roaming of neighbours is again a national sport in Slovenia. In short, if you already claim something and want to perform in theory, practice completely overwhelms you. Moreover, the main stupidity of these tax receipts is what we want to tell you last year – at least the Members of the SDS Group, as well as the Members of New Slovenia – that whoever cheats earlier will also be after the introduction of the tax registers. The figures already indicate this in the first three months, at least in the public eye, and probably in any ministry already available. In short, instead of letting them do what is right, you give them new bureaucrats of stupidity, but of course this paradigm of some tax optimisms suggests that this neighbor. Today, something has already been said about problems in practice. We had an urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, where the people in practice, I think for three or four hours, they spoke about the real problems of these tax boxes. The first is the financial structure, because they had to buy equipment, upgrades, printers and so on, and what happens to them in practice. The case of agricultural markets, formerly colleague Franz Breznik said briefly what was going on in agricultural markets. From my district, I have specific cases from my congregation. We fought for the farm market, we even got European funds to make this farm market come alive, and what happens after 1. 1. 2016 – three bidders said we have enough nonsense to accept in Parliament. I talked to each of these people, and I said, no, we're not all the same, and we're not all the ones who support the stupidity of officials who are probably thinking during a cigarette break about making sure they exist, because in the end citizens will pay for it all because the National Assembly will confirm it. And they said we didn't have any problems before, there must be bureaucracy, we have to pay the country what the state has, but we have such nonsense that we have to tell people why we have to confirm accounts somewhere else, not how we have to do accounts with dirty hands and everything else, in short, full of stupidity. I am really inviting all of you to a farmer's market, wherever it already exists – as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I will probably request an urgent meeting – and let's see what nonsense it has led to the establishment of tax registers. On the other hand, craftsmen, those who had previously played law, avoided paying taxes, continue to do so. It still happens when a craftsman says yes, you know, and those other craftsmen still do what they used to do. And I say, if you have evidence, report it. He said, yes, how, because I'm not the one asking for his service. And this is a key point where in the SDS we do not agree with the coalition and the ministry that the tax receipts will not bring anything more binding on those who have already been honest, except more bureaucracy and more nonsense. And yes, there are areas in Slovenia where they are prevented from doing electronic business. For the last time, on the Committee on Agriculture, it was said how they hope that in the evening some users will be excluded from the wireless internet so that they can then send bills so that they will not get any chicken from Furs, when they cheat the country, while they work all day either on the field or on the farmer's market or where else they care for their daily earnings. We have societies, we have local smaller societies, I myself was president of one society, sports, cultural, for young people, we've provided everything. For the last time, I would not have gone under any circumstances to the president of such a society, where I would be afraid, if, for example, I would have driven my members to Planica, what I should have studied a few days earlier, but I would have had a tax box myself, and if, at that rate at 4 a.m. in the morning, when I would have gone, to whom I would not have issued the bill, and I would have said, I hope that this John or France would not report me to the Financial Board. We have societies in different segments and the saddest part is that in these months it has come to my office and I have met people on the ground who are pensioners who say the pensioners' society we will slowly end. It's hard to get a young man to work in society, but you don't get an older man like that anymore, and now you don't get one. And what's been moving in the countryside is going to be less fun organised by firefighters, that's de facto, we can meet, once in September, in October, you'll see what the situation is, there's fewer sports companies and there's fewer pension societies. And after 1. 1. 2017 this curve will go rapidly down. In short, all that has moved development, farmers, craftsmen, societies will be, thanks to these tax receipts, which are the top of the icy mountain of stupidity that are being adopted in the National Assembly, all of this will be less. More people will go abroad and more people will also go into what this government somehow avoids – the issue of tax havens. As far as the financial implications are concerned, this government has a forecast that it will collect between 50 million and 75 million a year due to tax receipts more – the first analysis shows that there will be no more. But on the other hand, the same competent Ministry of Finance does not have almost, at least so in the public record or in the media, no problems to throw another 50 million into two tycoon banks. So these good farmers, craftsmen and societies will give these 50, 70 million, as far as the budget is concerned, to complete the story of the tycoon banks. Congrats and greetings for the stupidity of this government! The hat down because you have both timing and meaning and something else to hope for such things to happen. To conclude with two issues; one is, as I have already said, instead of doing what many developed European countries are doing: low taxes on high penalties, this government is fighting or has the idea of: high taxes, huge red tape, and high penalties against the next. I will not talk about everything that society has written, what their wishes are, but I will finish with the text – I think it is yesterday's, the day before – when the Agriculture Ministry of the Government proposed to start following the introduction of the tax registers by Slovenia after six months of the introduction of the Austrian system, where they are taxed at 7,000 euros in revenue per year. But Minister Židan is Vice-President of the Government, I think he is even in his description of these tasks, which he has as Vice-President of the Government, the economy, agriculture and taxes. So, one of the main ones who said tax boxing "on charge, on charge"; now that SMC Members are still speaking a one-year transitional period, we will see, we will see, we will see, we will betray the Prime Minister and his coalition and say, "hop, after six months we will change and give the Austrian model." And I am sorry that Mr Židan is not here today to ask him why he may not be more close to society – EUR 10 000 – or to my notions of an optimal example of Sweden where the use of tax registers is not necessary for taxpayers with annual cash traffic of less than EUR 18 000, or why not Portugal, which does not require tax confirmation of an account if a business entity is established in Portugal and has less than EUR 100 000 per year. But no, Minister Židan, after all the societies are hitting on the government, after Parliament, when pensioners are asking why the hell we've already elected Desus, when farmers are wondering who's taking care of farmers in the National Assembly, when the same questions are being asked by craftsmen and representatives of societies. [[…]] Dejan Židan in his demagogic style beats his own government with a demagogic measure that he told him six months ago, that's what, in terms of grabbing, we know who, about the horns. No, but now Mr Dejan Židan will be the main bringer of tax changes and how tax collectors are not only the world's truths, which almost half a year ago, I would probably have put my head on how exactly the law we have is the ultimate law. No, now he just listens to what we say to him all the time: listen to people, good people, their work on the ground and their healthy farm. A healthy farmer's mind tells us, we confirm this law, and we abolish the tax bills as one of the top stupidities of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferruga has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u56	It's a nice greeting from me, too. Yeah, everything's wrong, everything's wrong, everything's bad, this government sucks, everything has to be thrown into the same basket. That's the logic now, let's put the tax box aside, that's the simplest thing, because then everything will be nice and good, the sun will shine and the grass will grow. That's the logic now. Yeah, it's true, it's not the optimal law, things are getting better, but we're going to stop the tax check before we figure out what the effect is, I don't understand it and I can't accept it. If the people of the Ministry of Finance and Furs tell us that we will get in May, in the middle of May, at the end of May, I don't know when, I don't know exactly, an analysis of all the ways in which this law behaves, let's say, this law is actually in the real world, regardless of all the comments – because it's clear that in Slovenia everyone has all the comments, everyone knows everything, and then I move on to the other part where it's most interesting: clearly, we can't prescribe in the law that those who don't stick to the law are going to stick to it now. I agree with this, Mr Lisce, we cannot prescribe. A fraud will cheat whether it's a law or a different law, he'll always avoid it. But it is about once in Slovenia that we start to take one step towards this so-called tax culture. What is tax culture? Do we know for ourselves whether we have made it clear here ourselves how it is necessary not to say that there is no money for education, for health care, for roads and for everything else? If we look at Sweden; Sweden is one of such very interesting countries. It has very high taxes, normally the standard is high, but 90% of people pay without problem because they are aware that they have to pay taxes in their heads because they have to have the standard of living that they have; that they will have the standard of education that they have, that they will have the social standard that they have. And here we are playing populism and some kind of action now to just suddenly end it all. But I am looking at that tax box as the first step towards a stable collection of taxes, to a mosaic that will be joined by other laws that are necessary, it is said that this tax culture is beginning to develop and improve. And even then, actually with some other law, somehow we're going to come to finance the state as needed, but not by still having this Yugoslav socialist way of thinking in our heads, we're going to be kind of confusing not to pay the state and go through the curves, not to stick to some regulations. And that's it. In doing so, it is said, in the case of the tax registers, I think that a kind of patient and constructive way of negotiating and talking is needed, because it is clear that this law itself cannot be perfect right away in the beginning. That is why we in the SMC are also monitoring on the ground what is happening, accepting these proposals, concrete proposals, which we are submitting to Furs, then we are also negotiating with them and listening to some solutions. I think that this is the way that we will all take some step forward towards the country and to what needs to be given to the emperor, the tax is true, but it is also about achieving some positive effect in some increase in the recording of supplies of goods and services, because then Furs will also be able to review relatively quickly, it is said how much someone is purchasing material and how much this material has continued to be shipped. And that's essential. And the second thing is: with the tax registers we somehow made more staff in Furs, the inspectors, get an automated part of the system; it is said that these inspectors can go on the ground and really hunt these storms, which will be detected by others. Even when people begin to realize that people who work in black have to report somehow – and this is also true today as an invitation to all of us to realize that we need to get these people in order somehow – they will have more time and more opportunities to deal with those who are avoiding real law. However, laws are clearly written for a large majority, for one middle part of people or for a large majority of people who adhere to laws, but all others who are outside know clearly where they belong and where they belong. So I think it is unnecessary now that this law is suddenly lifted and I do not agree with this proposal. I think it is appropriate to continue because this transitional period is not yet complete and the analysis is not done, so that the whole matter has to be carried out in some smart way. I think these results will show up, which were somehow visible if they're not even better. That's what people want to say. I don't know if it's good for this country. I think it is our job to be truly responsible for this and to start bringing this tax culture to a higher level if we are to achieve the standards of the northern countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! My debate will be a little different than that of my colleague Ferluga, because we were probably in different jobs before we came to Parliament. If we are already talking in particular about farm tax issues today, I would also continue this topic, not like my colleague Breznik, but given that colleague Ban said that these tax collectors did not bring any more tax, but that taxes are based on other laws and that this is not such a problem that other taxes will have to be resolved and corrected – it is true. However, as an example on the farm, the problem can be more in the Income Act, where agricultural crops are defined as a basic activity, then complementary activity and other activities. On average, our farm is 6.4 or 6.6 hectares and this farm has no way to survive with its basic activity and with its complementary activities somehow survives. However, complementary activities are the production of those crops that are either damaged or not the first class that cannot be sold and distributed, thereby adding added value. This is a complementary activity and an account must be issued for this complementary activity. Then there are other activities, such as the production of strawberries. I'll give you an example of a farmer selling apples, berries and apple juice on the market. You don't have to issue an account for apples, for strawberries and for juice. It must have three different rooms for money: three cash registers, three wallets. When the buyer comes, he gets a receipt for juice and strawberries, but he doesn't get an apple bill, and he remembers that river of Minister Jew Turn your mind on, ask for an account. He asks why he doesn't get an apple bill, and he's afraid he's gonna get knocked up by an inspector, and he's gonna ask where his apple bill is. And he won't have it. And in practice, it was happening that customers were turning and not buying. He went to the store to buy it because he got the bill. Then they're tax receipts. At minus 5 degrees Celsius, which is in the markets, whether it's even greater than cold, the cashiers failed to function. Maybe some super expensive cash registers would work under such conditions. Then, at a temperature above 35 degrees Fahrenheit [35 ° C], these tax receipts were also received. Those who sell cabbages and such crops have wet hands — they need someone else to type. There's a lot of these problems. Here we are saying that we have a bunch of laws that we have not complied with so far, and now the problem is when the tax registers came, and suddenly everything is wrong. We pronounce ourselves, of course, like Minister Židan, when he said that in Slovenia we have a regulation on complementary activities on the farm better than the Austrians. Unfortunately, we also have tax legislation that corrupts everything. We have – I don't know, we recently passed the Agricultural Lands Act. In this law we have laid down a number of provisions concerning the Law on the regulation of premises, even though we have spatial legislation in preparation. Then it all mixes with each other and the farmer doesn't know how to act. Why don't all the resources that, say, cover agriculture, so spatial, environmental, financial and so on, join together, make a team of experts, go to the farm and ask the farmer or see how he can act, and the legislation adapts? But not to make up, this law has an impact on another law, that it cannot work, then let's invent a third from another department, which once again has an impact on another sector and hinders the implementation of another law. Finally, we wonder why farmers leave farming, why craftsmen, even older ones, close their trades, on the other hand why would they work for someone, for lazy people, for officials, why wouldn't they take care of themselves to survive so that they wouldn't worry? This is the thinking of these small entrepreneurs who create added value, pay taxes and provide and also fill the budget. How many of these little ones we got! 70% of income comes from small and micro enterprises. How many employees are there? Now, as if it were only officials who were inventing new and new regulations — I recently bumped into a stupid marriage and when I turned to the secretary of state and to the minister when it came to officials — immediately respond: what does politics have to do with this, and what do they care about Halo? [[…]] Officials who work 20 years get paid, no less than we Members, and only protect their asses and wait every month for a salary! And the law is like the Butals. We Members must not interfere with such laws! How many laws we adopt are broken by regulations adopted by the Government or by the rules adopted by the Minister? Then it is only our fault that the law that officials make is inappropriate or purposeful for us to confirm something, and then they set forth to carry out this law in the way that it suits them. In the field, then in the real sector, the barn. And here with these cash registers is the same thing. My colleague said we'd save the Cadastrian Income Act. We won't. First, you put out a version that was worse than in the Bratuška government, when 1,000% of some KDs grew up, and now the average is around 600. If you have now come to something acceptable — why did you initially put such information out of your mind? What for? Now, of course, you're letting go, normally, you have to let go. Finally, KD will be less than it was now during the transitional period. However, Mr Židan has reduced premurk farmers in the KD plane so much that they were not even medically and pensionally insured anymore because he was such a low KD, they were not members of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber – those in the plain. But, of course, he's got KD up in the hills, and I don't know where else. Now he's fixing it because he went too low to like his own. We'll see what the calculation is. All influences on operation or agricultural processing. We are talking about a short food chain, and on the other hand, we are preventing those farmers who process and produce something at home from marketing it in an easy way. Why not introduce peacocks like in neighbouring countries? Why we insist on a KD why we do not take a model like Germany – tax value and then on the basis of the potential of a given agricultural land, tax is also calculated. And that can be true for 30 years, but every year we would have bureaucrats, administrators, and I don't know what kind of data we are, because we're smarter. It's just that we're doing something, and it doesn't matter what the result is. I don't know how many times on the Committee on Agriculture we've discussed why we're pushing this socialist model forward, why we're not looking over the fence a little bit, how it is abroad. Would it be seriously wrong for a farmer who has a flat rate not to pay a couple of Euros of tax that the country would otherwise receive through the way it is now, by having ten times or fifty times the cost of the state with it? This is not important because those who have never worked, only studied or had jobs, but who are able to monitor and intimidate those who work well on the ground will be exposed to old people who still have to work on farms to survive the farm. Is that the way? When someone asked me why we allow so many black buildings to be built in Slovenia, so many buildings built in conflict with regulations, I replied that this was intended because bureaucrats could intimidate people, that they could send an inspector at any time to punish them and thus intimidate them that the country was not meant to be order. Even these tax receipts and this payment of fines. Here I was told that in Gorenjska there was a case where there was no amount of 0.50 euros in the cash market and that the charger paid fines because it did not count in the cash register. There are many times when an inspector comes into the inn counting money in a cash register when the biggest crowd is, say, during lunchtime in the morning. They close the register, they send people to a nearby inn, and – count! Is that fair? Fair to someone who pays all the taxes honestly? And if someone as a politician points to that, the answer is, what do you care about politics? Is that really right? Therefore, I think it would be time to look at certain areas in a comprehensive and changing way, not only to speak out to each other, as the colleague has said before, but all together in the government are sitting and finally burning, raising their hands and then pointing out on the committee with a finger on the other minister that he is guilty. In front of the people, in front of the voters, we're all politicians in the same basket, after all. Obviously, we will have to explain better who we are, who we stand for to make things simpler and fairer, and who they do not care about. That's why I don't think we have to wait another six months or a year to find out that something's wrong because everyone's laughing at us. There is a joke on the web that the Ministry of Finance has ordered that three-layer toilet paper should be used and that one copy should be sent to Furs. We all make fools of each other. But people leave, they say, it's for us to survive, why would we strive to pay only taxes to those who accept such stupid regulations? Is this the goal of destroying rural areas so that our agricultural land will grow, so that we can import very poor food? Is that the goal? Because import is a tax, but if a person comes home alone, the country seems to be deprived. The journalist asked me, and I looked at him, "Do you think it's really good for the Slovenians to make their own food?" I couldn't tell you that a reporter on TV was asking. I said, "Yeah, well, if there's any less taxes, I don't know how many times the state will save on treatment costs." We'll save it in health, if not before. I think we should all be aware, sometimes they said, "Read the book and ask the farmer." Now, too many books are read, too many exams are done, and in the end, he is not interested in what the farmer thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mrs Vojka Šergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have heard from the Ministry of Finance that the tax money is a fight against the grey economy. No, I would say the opposite, the tax box is a wealth of the public sector for me, because with such a large administration, such procedures need to be strengthened and, in fact, there is always a lot of words about how we will reduce certain legislation: let us remove administrative obstacles. Did we do this with the tax receipts? No, it's not. It's the opposite. In Slovenia we have 14,000 sub-legislative acts. These sub-legal acts are supposed to be operational acts. This is said to be an extremely large number of legal data to be used in practice. I am interested in how many of these acts are good, which are helpful, and how many of these acts it prohibits, restricts; in short, I would say they are restrictive and disruptive elements. I think that the ratio there would be 10% to 90% in favour of restrictions and increases in some administrative procedures. I agree that there is also a need to be done in Slovenia in the tax segment of order, and I agree with that, of course, it is necessary to look at itself first. If we look back a few years, certain companies haven't paid taxes for more than five years, that is to say, first of all, we need to look at whether the order is made or whether these things are being implemented. as they would actually have had to be married. It's a black job. Things are simple. This black work needs to be legalized and tax collected for this black work, but the problem in Slovenia is that we go from one extreme to another extreme. I fully agree that certain segments and so on were absolutely undertaxed, but now we have gone to a different extreme and are hunting a small man with ever-increasing taxes. I don't think this is a good thing. See why we avoid flat-rate taxation in Slovenia? It's a big taboo, it's gonna be, I don't know how much they're using and so on. The neighbouring countries have this resolved in this way. Why? Because they need 30% of the public sector to simplify things. If I give you an example, let's take the case of one entrepreneur, one plumber, who's self-employed. We can calculate very precisely what his business income is in one month. If it takes 176 hours, its hourly heading is so much and so many euros, it weighs so much and so, per year so much and so. If you two are busy, it's two times. Until the euro we can accurately calculate its realization, but no, we have to do it with all the administrative procedures, with the cash registers, with everything I don't know what to limit it with. When we can accurately calculate the euro, what is its annual income, and how he is able to produce and earn within one year! Not to speak in the field of agriculture for small farms. Because big farms have all the parts, because in this administration such farms would be lost. In short, these procedures would be more concerned with than the basic activity, but for small farms, GERK is now accurate up to a square metre for the type of culture, in short, the data are on the table. Accurately, it can be calculated from a small farm, such as its annual income from this title. It's very accurate to calculate it! Today, with these tax receipts, I will give just one example. The smaller farm, because of course it does not survive the basic activity, is engaged in some complementary activities, but, if they are not related – in short, it has several complementary activities registered and because of the various complementary activities, it must have three tax receipts. Three tax receipts on a small farm! But that is not all; it must have a separate business space for each tax box. It's got to have three different business spaces. This is actually an example of the practice where we have now, through this bureaucracy, brought with these regulations a small man, one who wants to produce something on earth and, of course, survive from it. These are unacceptable procedures. I mean, this is such a specification that is actually absolutely, absolutely not acceptable. Why not take the example from Austria, where they have flat-rate taxes, we have data on the table, we can exactly sort it into certain tax classes, in Austria they have a tax class of between 0 and 30 000 euros and between 30,000 and 75 000 euros. To these values they do not have to enter the accounts because it is possible to calculate precisely what its annual income is, in which the tax grade can be allocated and how much its tax will be in one year. Things are very simple. But no, we have to, I would say, enrich the public administration, hire so many inspectors, work on the tax administration so much that they will, I don't know, watch the dates if the account from the book was sent in ten days. This is what we are now dealing with because there must be a worker there to examine if the account has been sent within ten days or was sent on the 11th day. That's the kind of thing we're dealing with right now. That's the result of this law, which you're talking about, is very good, and I'm saying it's very bad. Very bad. These are practical examples. This law is just a wealth of public sector to me. Financial impact, let's calculate the financial effect, there are no such financial effects. I don't know, but on the other hand, let's ask ourselves, how many cases a year are the indictments, I don't know, big places. Not to mention the secrecy of the bank data, because we told them to expose the irregularities of the banks. No, it's a secret, and it's a bank secret, and that's not to be put out. However, the aim is to squander in the state budget. So let's put these two segments on technique. Where have we dealt with the issue of budget squandering and budgeting? It's not working out for me. I mean, here's the time perspective that it will soon be shown that actually this case with the tax box in this way – but I absolutely agree that it is necessary to make order for all taxes to be paid, but not in such a way that you actually spend two thirds of your time on administration, but for one third of your time doing that thing. It doesn't work together. It's unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Hello, Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! From today's substantive debate, it is possible to find out that this law is really purely a populist proposal, because let's be serious. You don't have to stop tax receipts before you figure out what the effects are. This really points to a populism action. I also come from the real sector and see tax receipts as introduction, in some way, new technologies, computer technologies or whatever we call them, both in Furs and in individual activities. I must say that I have also read – from the Zagorje District Chamber have sent me a letter, I think that other Members from this area, and they are kind of warning in this letter, I will quote: "Amendors of change want to introduce exceptions to tax confirmation of accounts, because all changes have a political dimension, the list of proposed exceptions from day to day will increase mainly due to proposals of political options, which often make it easy for voters to find liking without realizing the practical consequences of manipulating the arguments of their power." I quoted this from this letter, so it will be clear that, in fact, the entrepreneurs who have started using these tax boxes and who use them for these three months are against the fact that this law applies. This would mean that their costs have already occurred, they are using cash registers, and now they do not really agree with the abolition. They argue that it is unacceptable to impose any exceptions without analysis of the consequences of the tax registers. So the option is only: tax box yes or no. And they say they simply do not have to adopt this proposal otherwise. Of course, individual cases are subject entities smaller than societies and these mountain homes. There are some negative effects on the introduction of these cash registers. As a result, the Ministry also stresses that they will have a hearing for these entities and that they will consider or propose changes in this area. So you don't have to say that there is no listening to these smaller entities that are having trouble using these cash registers and that are exposing this problem. In short, we need to look at this. As far as the exemption is concerned, the exemptions in some way with the bound account book and the mini-account are cash, and this makes it easier for smaller entities in some way to make this transitional period up to 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, it must be pointed out that some entities, such as mountain houses and those smaller ones, have already had to put accounts out in the past. Maybe now it's just somehow led them to start issuing accounts that they should have in the past. So I really don't see why the tax office should be shut down. In particular, as they identify and ensure at the Financial Administration that the positive effects of the tax registers are detected. Inspections also show this. The media has also reported this and has also seen a more consistent issuance of accounts. It is also detectable additional registration, additional employment. Of course, once the first analysis is done, the ministry will be able to decide which entities will nevertheless make exceptions. For these exceptions must indeed be considered, for if we do not take this into account and the Ministry does not take this into account, then one group will be relieved, but on the other hand it will do wrong to the other group. As a result, we need to weigh carefully what exceptions and in what way. For all kinds of gainful activity, it is necessary to keep this in mind, for all kinds of gainful activity, because the same requirements must apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor. Get Mr. Uroš Prikl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u64	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state with coworkers! It is very difficult to admit the error made last year when we are talking about confirming accounts through the tax box. Let me introductoryly tell Mrs. Vojka that she cheated in one part. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia has always been against the tax box, but in the end, when one of you probably didn't understand that this was going to go to waste, she said, if they were already, let them be for everyone. That's a fact. Today we are talking about these unloved cash registers. I know, a respected secretary with both colleagues, that this is hard to listen to; a difficult morning, but this is the morning when we have to listen to things when we talk about mistakes that have been made in the past. I'm pretty sure there won't be a word out of your mouth that it's a mistake to crash on this segment. But it is also a fact that the difference between the 90 Members and you – that we have been elected from people – will be laid down as soon as possible. Of course, the more mistakes you make, the sooner we start laying them down, because there will be elections. However, you are employed, and if you find that you work for a policy that does harm to the state, then it is likely that the job should be replaced. I also listened attentively to my colleague Ferlugo when he said that these tax registers were certainly a culture in the tax system, a culture introduced in the tax system. Last week, I got a tip that he was on the 31st. 12. 2015 32 conclusions were uncut by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. 32 joints, that's on date 31. 12. 2015 – this is culture! Of course, next week, as we are hearing, the President of the Government will bring the Minister to the National Assembly because she has not fulfilled one conclusion – that is culture. Last week, I was at Postojnski, where a native told me – an expert in the field of forests, always living in Postojnski – that foreigners mass drive away wood; without any supervision, without every account. But when it happens to the locals that they cut a little spruce for Christmas, it may be sold without a bill to buy their children gloves for winter, and of course it is a punishment — a tax culture. I said this once in the National Assembly that I was at a charity event in December where there were 75 visitors, the ticket was €5, the purchase was €300, and on Sunday afternoon four financial inspectors were involved in the event. We are living in a situation where we need to be even more aware that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana, that Slovenia is also the Haloze, Prekmurje, the karst world and every village, even if it is thousands and several meters high. With the introduction of tax receipts, we have come into a situation where people in various societies — and we have heard this many times today — especially firefighting societies are no longer hoping to prepare fireflies and are wondering if they will go to that village once a year on a trip because they do not know and are afraid of how they will collect this money. So we go from one extreme to another extreme. In the country, there are a lot of taxes that are not collected, a lot of tax evasion, a lot of money from the same cash register that has been taken abroad. Those who do so say that they are some oasis, and on the other hand our inspectors, or as some call them, are watching Facebook, and there is something else where there will be an event in Slovenia, in a village, and on Saturday or Sunday they will go to this event to see if everything is in accordance with the rules. I think this road's wrong. Sometimes it seems to me that we don't move gears in the car from the first to the second, third, fourth, fifth or sixth to go straight from the first to the fifth. This is not right and there is certainly damage to this segment. Dear Secretary of State, this is a fact, and I must tell you that's what people in the environment say. That is not just what people who deal with it say, and that is what people who are burdened with it say, and that is what people who have daily problems with it say. I don't think it's the future of Slovenia that we have to start on some other side, after all these things have been arranged, when people feel that, in fact, as SMC Member said, we want to get into some tax culture, and then there will probably be time for these cash registers. That is why I propose and also advocate that this proposal be supported by the law, even if it is necessary to tell someone that a mistake has been made, but this proposal certainly goes in the direction of those who face these problems daily. Of course, on the other hand, it goes to the millers who spend this state money on health care, tax certification, taxes are not paid. I've never heard of any great fish I'd hoped to go to on Saturday or Sunday. This is wrong and I think that this policy has invalidated the agricultural mind in Slovenia and economic logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Vojka Shergan, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u66	I'd like to send him an e-mail quoting what I've read here. Because the chamber, even if initially in a dilemma, is a cash register yes or no, now that the tax registers are in place, it is against this to change. Because entrepreneurs, craftsmen already had a cost — those who purchased it. And now the abolition and they are against going wide with exceptions, so I cannot agree that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry advocates this law because it is explicitly stated, and I will send this letter that they are against doing exceptions and that what you are doing is an exclusively populist approach to ending this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Procedural or [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u68	As a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u69	As a proponent, I apologize. Mr. Marko Pogačnik, please, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u70	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I think I have to storm. My colleague, Private Shergan, or I'd say the head of the Chamber of Commerce and Business in Zagorje, near Sava, probably didn't read our bill. Because our proposal for a law follows this, of course, the tax registers are abolished, but Article 2 also provides for a little more. The Article provides for the reimbursement of all costs incurred by the taxpayers in relation to the tax box or by the compulsory entry into the system of compulsory clearance of accounts. Now I don't know if you or the Zagorje Chamber of Commerce and Industry are misleading. We propose this law if it is adopted, if it is confirmed, the abolition of the tax registers and the reimbursement of all costs, which is probably understandable to us that we could not be held back? [[…]] Read the law once! Don't you believe that's what our bill says? Of course, it says, you wouldn't have proposed to me after two months of shutting down cash registers, and if it hadn't come back, I'd say, these costs. However, I would call on the Secretary of State to see how much this would mean for the budget, we estimate about 16 million. If you can give me a number. Given that you rejected the law, I suppose you had to, I would say, make that assessment as well. Please indicate what would be the recovery of all the costs related to the tax repositories and those entities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues, once again a nice greeting from this town! Initially, when I presented the position of the Desus Group, I said that we would not support the proposal for an amendment or an end to this law and we did not support that first version, which was by New Slovenia, of the amendment of this law, of course we will not support this proposal. We believe in the tax registers, we estimate that the tax registers are one of the possible measures for consolidation in the final stage of public finances, not the only ones, but primarily the basic point – and this is the point, the point of the regulation itself – that there is a fair burden, that there is no more tax evasion, that there is a fair redistribution or burden distribution and that there is no fraud. In the same breath it is necessary to say that this is not the only measure where we want to recover or in some way make honest public finances, of course there are also many other mechanisms, not least the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Property has been adopted – and I say this in this context because a few discussions have been re-comparisoned, yes, now we will sit here on every euro, which any society issues an account or does not issue, and we will release those "great ravens" who have stolen millions and hidden them, and we will take them abroad and so on. I believe we have mechanisms to catch big fish. This is not about witch hunting, at least we in Desus don't understand this matter that way; the basic point seems to us to be an acceptable, established philosophy of this law and, of course, we need to continue. We, as I have said, no things in Desus – and I do not personally support – that this is the only salvation, there is no deviation, no deviations and so on and so forth. Of course, we need to figure out where they're going. Now, if I say anomalies, I'm going to be very grave, if I say where the problems are, where there might also be incomprehensible bureaucratic obstacles, such or other problems, and this needs to be listened to, not just waved with your hand, but let's move on. We have listened, many citizens and citizens, representatives of various civil society initiatives, have addressed us, of course, because this is normal because we cooperate with them and have excellent relations with representatives of the Alliance of Retired Society. Before I was missing here, the representatives of the disabled organisations, with whom we also discussed the subject, were probably able to list, not least, the firefighters, a number of societies. Some things, some of the problems they face, have been pointed out. We tried through one conversation to summarize these matters a little bit and also in contact with the financial authorities, Mrs Vraničar, but we already had some answers last night, late yesterday afternoon – I haven't been able to look at it yet. I believe that through the implementation of the Law on Tax Retails, which of course is not called so, is called the Law on Account Confirmation, of course we will continue with the law. I think that this is the right way, the direction is O.K., but of course we will examine all together, especially the executive branch of power, the things people warn us about, because it is not the law because of us, because of Members, because of the government, because of Mrs Vraničar, it is the law that we must all somehow respect and adhere to. However, this law – I say it in the same phase, in the same breath – must not in fact limit something and be a bar and of course it will not. I believe that if things were to be identified, repaired, corrected, they would be feasible, that we would not limit the enthusiasm of these people who work, the enthusiasm, their sacrifices, when they appear daily in various elementary accidents – about firefighters – who appear and care for the elderly, help them, enable them to enjoy a better life and so on and so on. We're not going to limit it. Now, if I had a magic wand here, I probably wouldn't be sitting here, doing something else, and I'd say immediately there's such a solution, a solution like that, there's one limit we're going to put on 7000 268 euros flat, who's underneath it, who's forgiven, who's above it, who's not forgiven, and so on. Of course, it will be necessary to consider and find solutions that will benefit all of us, while at the same time the fundamental point in which we believe, not however, but we believe and believe from the beginning that this is a contribution of fairness, justice, proportionality, will continue. I have to say in person now that I expected fewer complications, less trouble here. This law has been in the process for a relatively long time. I know that it has listened and that the position has been complemented by many, I believe that with all the stakeholders who are now using or will be using this tax box, I may be surprised by some things that are now appearing as an anomaly after their interpretation. Of course, I will be like a parrot, if I say, the law is living matter that changes, so I will not say it or it is not a key point, but we will insist on it, we will initiate certain things to be corrected, we will not wait a year, two to see the medium-term effects, but those things that will appear in the sky absorbing and need to be changed, we will change them in this place – we will, I say all, we know who will propose changes. In this place I hope to say, I hope, as a coalition Member in this place, that all those who may now really be tormented by these things should not be overly pessimistic, but we will achieve such a compromise solution that the tax box will not restrict anyone, that it will not be a stone on the back of someone, because that is not the purpose of this. So much for a start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Christmas has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. We've been around a lot or I've been explaining a lot of things, but obviously there's a lot more to go on. Why repeat it? Because sometimes this hyperproduction of some data and some claims that come from time to time, in my opinion also somewhat maliciously, interpretation, somehow deters what is actually the right data. In a way, it grieves me that this is constantly repeated, despite the fact that ten times, twenty times you deny a matter, so perhaps earlier — my colleague Chus didn’t like it when I smiled at him, because when you repeat the same thing 30 times or the same thing, you get demants on not having a hundred million less seized, repeat the same story and then it’s embarrassing to stay serious about it. It's hard. As far as what has been said is concerned, we are calling on our own government and that we are coalition Members and so on. The position of the SMC Group mainly contained one conclusion that in the past there have been very different rules adopted without over-thinking what effect they will have in practice. Given that we now have legislation governing tax receipts, there is an automatic exchange of data, and on this basis, there is also a little more error in tax matters in many cases, and then there is a certain additional fear of looking at everything else. We have a number of regulations, from safety at work to this famous HACCP, which some countries can sell on the street, but we have such problems selling food on the street that it's a little funny. All of these things, which we have somehow identified, we find – here this appeal was somehow that in those matters concerning more ministries or other ministries, we want a little more intensity. The ministries have a number of priorities and we have only addressed them to maybe give you a little more attention. As far as the Minister of Finance is concerned, however, I have made it clear in my view that a lot of things have been done in terms of debarcation. On the one hand, we have, if we go to see legislation, the Tax Procedure Act, which has been updated, simplified, now we have a law governing customs matters, there has been a lot of simplification in it, we have a excise law now somehow in this public debate, we are now talking about it, we are discussing it, and so on and so forth, and many solutions are leading to the economy being burdened and at least in a certain part of the public administration, and we will be able to do more and better. So sometimes I feel that these visits, which are discussed here, are being asked questions and so on, with certain ways of giving information above all – I think this is a protection and this is not the right approach and I am disappointed. Because if the correct information, the correct information, were to be given, it would probably be easier to find out where something might not be as right as it should be. When we go to someone to talk to, I particularly follow that we identify as soon as possible the area that may be problematic, then we also sort of develop it, substantively support it, and we need information here in the middle of May to provide substantive support for a particular case. Given that I've already said that this is a technical law, if there are any changes, they'll probably be in other laws first. This may be – I don't know – as it was now one of the proposals or thoughts of the Ministry of Finance in the area of amending the Rules on Value Added Law. I don't know. But certainly this law, which is a technical law, by abolishing it, I think it's a blank shot, maybe just in the wrong direction. And that repeated claim that lower taxes mean less grey economies and so on. Nigeria has a 12% share of GDP taxes. Guess what oil companies, which account for 80% of tax revenue – say what they pay. Well, look how gray Nigeria's economy is! Thus, taxes could be nothing — they would still have the same problem. In fact, it should be paid to someone to make it worth their while. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia and, of course, I personally support the efforts of the Slovenian Democratic Party to make some major adjustments in the field of tax receipts or tax confirmation of accounts. Colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party here went into a very decisive solution, which in fact means the abolition of tax registers. We, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, have already tabled a new bill on tax clearance of accounts, which the coalition has rejected. We don't understand that we've lost, it's not true. She's won Slovenia. She won. because we have had one debate where you are and we are all coming from the field with different information about what brought tax receipts in real life to small entrepreneurs, farmers, companies that we have huge – small societies we have around 17,000 in Slovenia – what tax collectors have brought. We hear all this in the field, if we want to hear it. And here we are, because we have been sent by people to talk on behalf of people and I am pleased to discuss my colleague Uroš Pikl and also statements by his client's boss, who somehow ordered in one of the Slovenian diaries that Desus is in the coalition of those who want to change, to radically amend the Law on Tax Confirmation of Accounts. So, a coalition has begun to form, informally, in this House, which has the will to make some changes. Of course, I agree with my colleague Tilna Christmas, or I would extend even his observed period by myself. The last time I said that we will actually have clear results only when the year is over, not only do we have the first quarter to be precise, but look, the first contours are already visible, they are seen from the front. Now we don't have to look at just numbers, how much more the state budget has gotten now, if it's got any more. Probably got it first because the taxpayers had to buy equipment, hardware and software, and they spent — how much? Only the government evaluated, I think, about 40 million, I'd rather round up to 50 million. Of these 50 million investments in this equipment, the country must have received a lot from value added tax. What will be the proceeds and is it true that the coalition itself has entered into a coalition agreement that the introduction of tax cans is the most effective tool in the fight against the grey economy? At the end of the observed period, I would also like to see at the end of the year data on how much we, if I may call it, have reduced the grey economy. But I would also like to see what saddens me and what is the fact that many craftsmen have closed their business because they said they have enough, now this, now tax box, I say, in some awe always paid taxes, and now all of a sudden the state tells me that we are just all thieves. Of course, there are also tax evasioners; yes, and especially for those large fish, among those large tax collectors, I think that we are not effective enough. Those should be caught first, not those little ones who break out of the moon every month by selling the regrat, if I may symbolize a little. But we've made all this activity, this little entrepreneurial initiative, this little entrepreneurship really so complicated that people say that I would work, but I don't want and I don't have the power to break through these bureaucratic obstacles. Some have also asked the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Agriculture and Food how regrat is sold according to laws and regulations. Does she know, colleagues and colleagues, that between us, who can answer that question? I doubt it. This debate is more than welcome to actually come, if we have numbers, here must be the Ministry of Finance which is the most competent one to have an update, I hope at least, up-to-date data to see how and what is happening now at the time of 1. 1. 2016, when the National Assembly or the Coalition majority introduced the tax registers. Let's see what the effects are. However, it is very difficult to measure bad will with numbers, which is also an effect, of course, negative. How many, as it is said, have closed down their craftsmanship, their craftsmanship, and how many have not been decided to open them? I know about the Premura Congregation, where there is a congregation, is one village, is one congregation, one farrah, if you will. They had two innkeepers and now they said they had had enough of these, not least for the first time, SPIZ and other tax offices, and they both closed down. So I support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the introduction, I will repeat what I voted against for the basic text of the Law on tax clearance of accounts, which was introduced by colleagues from Nova Slovenije. One of those mentioned, of course, also in these proposals, is certainly how it will be possible to implement this law even in the most remote places or, if you will, in areas where there is a very poor signal. One of the wishes, of course, was that a precise situation should be made through the Agency for the Control of Electronic Communications where it can be implemented and under what conditions and where. Of course, that was a demanding task for the agency at the time — at least that was explained. However, I think that, nevertheless, when you decide on this system, you should also have this issue cleared up, where and under what conditions communication can be established. Otherwise, the law itself foresees and allows a number of possibilities to confirm the bill, as provided for in the law, and a large part of the debtors have already been organised and, in fact, all of this commitment has been largely fulfilled during the same period. However, those, I will say, reservations that I have had about the adoption of this law, which, at least for the moment, except in one case, I have observed, the users have not yet warned, are about collecting all data on the debtor with this law. Not only about his current account, when he did a service, but also in fact where he provides this service, which they are, is evident, his business partners, under what conditions he actually deals with these business partners. If we do not have this data well protected – this is the database for the economy in the whole Republic of Slovenia – and if, of course, we do not have this data well protected or even an intrusion into this database, then someone can do very much damage to the entire system. I appreciate and hope to make this assessment, regardless of the fact that the Government has adopted a cyber security strategy, but this is a government document, the National Assembly has not yet discussed this, so I hope to make an assessment that we have not spoken enough about this issue in the National Assembly and that we also have too few mechanisms to actually manage such cases successfully and in a timely manner to prevent this from happening. This is one of the issues that is extremely important, not only because of the tax registers, but also because of other systems in which they can, of course, if they are not adequately insured, infiltrate and cause much damage to the economy. Thus, on the one hand, this advantage of these diplomatic communications, on the other hand, is also a very serious threat, and we still do not have this issue cleared up. Otherwise, I would say, at present, to the laws that are being tabled after the law has been passed, regardless of the fact that I have not supported this basic principle, I must say that it is also rejected because I do not imagine the legislative procedure, that we should adopt the law and, as soon as it is adopted, amend it or, as it is today, that we should, in fact, abolish the validity of this law. On 2 January it was enforced, today we are in April and it is already proposed that this law be repealed. This is really one business environment, which is certainly not encouraging and if this can be done in this law, then why not also in some other, someone who wants to do business in Slovenia may ask. So this, I would say, instability, this impossibility is the issue that we must always have before we decide on the action that we have on the bench today. Similar relations have also occurred in the Media Act. The Media Act has been adopted with a forecast that as soon as it is adopted, it will be amended. This cannot really become, I will say, and it must not become a practice in the adoption of laws in the National Assembly, but if the law applies particularly to many users, the assessment is that there could be some 80 000 of them, probably a few fewer, because some of them have been adopted by law, but this is an extremely large number of debtors, and it is probably also necessary to be extremely careful here before decisions are taken that touch 80,000 commitments. However, I am assessing that after the May analysis, which will be the first analysis with the official data collected by this period, an analysis will really have to be carried out in terms of where the problems are, where there are no problems, where this process can be simplified. I myself estimate that in those smallest ones we can never speak or in societies that really work to try to exercise their interest. Finally, sometimes it is a form of association, not least overcoming stress or all the things that are happening today due to job losses due to the unpredictable working environment. The whole type of problem is and people can overcome it many times by engaging in society and through these societies then also maintain a certain condition if you want, and we also have perhaps fewer problems than these difficult consequences of the economic and financial crisis. Thus many cases will need to be considered and found truly thoughtful solutions, including in the direction of simplifying themselves, making these tax procedures, particularly the whole process, easier. Therefore, I think that, as such, the law will certainly not remain unchanged, we will have to go into these changes, but I am in the position that this must be done, so that we will know why this step has been taken, so that we will then also be better able to monitor the implementation of this law in the sense that it will, in particular, help to increase transparency and, again, I hope that in the future, we will also clear up the issue of the safety of all taxpayers for the use of the tax registers and their data. As an example, I can only say that a warning has also been given in the sense that, in competing on the tenders, it has already happened that competition had all the information on the company at its disposal when it tried to make an offer, under what conditions this company is operating with other entities, on which basis it can be assessed what offer it must make. In short, many of the issues that need to be carefully monitored are appropriate to amend legislation and clear up many of the issues that have been raised during this period, and thus, I hope, to come to better solutions than we have at this moment on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that the monitoring of this debate on our proposal to abolish tax cans is interesting. On the one hand, there are arguments, particularly my colleagues, when they have given individual examples of where the problems are and who has problems applying this bureaucratic principle of controlling the business of companies and farmers, and on the other hand there are no answers, whether it is true or not. Whether the cases justifying the unnecessary introduction of tax boxes or the need for removal are whether they are not; whether the individual farmers must have two or more tax boxes; or whether or not they must have two or more separate boxes for the individual production programmes of their farm. This was said, not for the first time, even on the committee, when the topic was addressed, this was recently said. Perhaps those who are burdened by this know how this is done in practice because they are facing it. They are visited by inspectors, they give warnings, and in extreme cases they are punished. I think that the problem of this government is that administrative obstacles and obstacles are being put in place excessively, that it insists on this challenge and that it is not assessed whether any measure constitutes a stimulus for development, for example, a certain type of production or constitutes an additional obstacle. Whether the introduction of tax incentives for the development of agriculture and small craftsmen, small entrepreneurs or this poses an additional obstacle to them. It is what followed through the forced investment and investment in the inspection part that the supervisory part of the state administration has had positive effects or negative effects. You say here in the coalition that you'll wait for the analysis. O.K. I think that the first data on valuations is known: a measure that has not brought practically nothing, except for the additional complications, additional costs and some costs, also through employment in the state administration. Did you put them away? You didn't! You can also calculate in advance the state forest management company to present, in particular, major problems, problems and losses. This measure or this could, if you wanted additional resources from this activity to be obtained, could be arranged in a different way, including by raising the concession fee, but you did not use it. We are in a situation, or this country is in a situation, especially when the government of the left-hand side is seeking excessive administration, excessive forms, excessive controls; it is said that when a totalitarian model is followed, when the state needs to know every last detail in every area, let it be the business of the company, let it be a family, let it be a matter of, I don't know what kind of activity it is. Everything. The neighbouring countries, which are more democratic, which have more developed models, trust people more. A lot of things are burdened only or taxed only flat-rately, it's said with some model. Therefore, these countries also need significantly lower taxes and significantly lower contributions to their functioning. In the end, the tax is paid for such nonsense when excessive bureaucratic controls, arrangements, monitoring, then with even higher taxes and higher contributions. However, this system is not covered economically, it needs to be further financed. I don't understand why exaggeration is necessary in these cases. In fact, only small businesses, small entrepreneurs and rural areas or agricultural parts are affected by these tax rulings. They don't really hit anyone else. The costs associated with the introduction of this system are enormous for small producers, especially if two or three cashiers and separate bookkeeping are actually needed. So where nothing is happening or very little is happening where people are dealing with survival, you are burdening them with additional measures, just as you were working on small work, inter-neighbourly assistance and similar stories, which are completely irrelevant for the national economy, and for life in a certain environment. On the other hand, there is a complete absence of all the measures that would go into those that deal with billions, which, I don't know, even our money, together money, transfer into tax havens, but into their accounts. Is there any control, any inspection, any action? In this area, we have not experienced any serious action during this period. Even controls do not work, even where the government should support certain measures, it appears with some explanation and supports, say, its home bank to hand over documentation to the investigative commission. Even the opinion supports the fact that this is a justifiable measure. I do not understand that any policy is willing to deal so much with some marginalities that make the life of half the country bitter, do not have any additional financial effects or just minor. On the other hand, it is not able to produce or even block the adoption of some measures that would allow for a review in some other areas; for example, in the area of banks, in the field of state property management and I do not know with whom. There's a billion, it's gone for a few state budgets of money from this country -- and there's nothing. When you propose to change the rules on the operation of the Money Laundering Office, the government is against it. When you propose an amendment to the Bank of Slovenia Act, that these banking companies should only be recapitalised in cases where criminal acts are evident and when this is and this is the case, let's say, recapitalisation of state intervention – the government opposes. When you want to tighten your responsibility in the banking system – the government opposes. Here, for a kilo of strawberries, if someone has not issued an account, an inspector with a van in the countryside will go and check whether a two-euro bill has actually been issued, whether it is one crate or one package of strawberries or not. If this approach isn't crazy, I don't know what's crazy. Here you are talking to your colleagues about waiting for the effects of the law. Like what? You'll make so many more new poor people, those who produce a hundred or a thousand kilograms of strawberries for which you get a thousand euros, and if you get one by chance that you didn't issue an account, you start with 500, 700 euros of fines. This is the technology we deal with when they're in power on the left. They are all the same, Pahorjeva, also Alenka Bratušek did this, Miro Cerar, I do not know, Minister Židan was a specialist in tax control in one of the previous governments. He has particularly deepened into correctness and has placed the burden of this control and the introduction of tax control and the issuance of accounts. Where is this Mr. Jew now who has so much to do with the Paraguayan blocks, with the book of accounts tied up and so on? Where is he now? What does this country have to do with it when it has dealt with it so much, rather than with finance ministers? Nothing! Because he was dealing with an area that is small in the Slovenian economy, the fifth decimal does not contribute to GDP production of strawberries, but we are here working on a meeting of the National Assembly whether it makes sense to monitor or not: whether he will pay VAT or not, or whether he will issue a bill or not. But when it comes to big things, there is unknowing caution and an unknowable ease of rejecting any suggestions and so on. The imposition of tax registers is totally unnecessary, detrimental to the State, because this is substantially cheaper and much better regulated in other ways, in another way. The countries where the ratio rules do so in another way, in the country where the government [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, the representative of the Government of Mags has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Today's debate has shown the desire to ask ourselves once again where the limit of tolerance is in relation to the grey economy and the fight against the grey economy. The grey economy appears in a whole range of emerging forms, one of these emerging forms is cash business. I am not saying that all cash transactions are already related to the grey economy, but this is an area where this is more frequent. The law on tax clearance of accounts refers to this form of grey economy. Other emerging forms of grey economy or, if you want, wider avoidance of tax payments should be addressed by other measures. And it is not true what has been stated during the debate that nothing is being done in these areas. It is true, however, that there is a legal basis in these areas, and there are legal rules on the basis of which the Financial Administration, as well as other competent authorities, can fulfil their obligations. These rules are also intended to analyse their implementation and, where appropriate, improve. I don't think they're coming in the future. I think they're coming in the future. The same applies to the Law on tax clearance of accounts. It must be a constant focus of our attention whether solutions are designed properly, or whether they provide answers to any specific questions that arise in practice. As I have already mentioned in my previous intervention, we have found that individual entities that should issue accounts, not on the basis of this law, but on the basis of the Value Added Tax Act, have not done so, and we have asked ourselves whether it is more appropriate that these people or individuals of this company, these craftsmen, societies, we commit ourselves to strictly issuing invoices and thereby certifying accounts or abolishing the obligation to issue invoices ourselves and have prepared a solution proposal in this direction. With regard to the implementation of the agricultural activity, there is no problem; the basic agricultural activity is the one with regard to which no account is to be issued, and the problem is the complementary activities and activities of the personal supplementary work carried out on the farm. This problem cannot be addressed through an exception to the Accounts Certification Act, but must be addressed to the source, i.e. by the rules of the Cadastrian Income Identification Act and the Income Act, which determine how a tax on cadastral income is to be applied. All these questions are in the focus of our interest and our work, and you can expect us to present concrete legislative proposals in this regard in a short time. When is the time for change? Let me give you an example of flat-rate taxation. We know flat-rate taxation in the area of income and also in the field of corporate income tax. We call it a tax assessment on the basis of standardised expenditure or standardised costs. Before the new system even came to life, we have already changed it, and we do not have the necessary data at our disposal to even analyse the effectiveness of the system. This is what we want to avoid when we say that we want to get at least first data, data on the implementation of the law in the first quarter of this year, before we really think about whether any error has occurred in relation to the bill itself. When you ask me what the cost assessment is for the public treasury, if it is necessary to reimburse the taxpayers for the costs they have incurred with regard to the introduction of the tax registers, then I should first say that it is the job of the bill's proposer to assess the financial consequences. At the same time, however, I can also find that this solution actually penalises those who have regulated their financial operations with adequate computer support prior to the introduction of the tax registers of so-called or tax-authenticating accounts. Since those who had such programmes had, for the most part, in their contracts with IT services, support services had a clause that the upgrading of the existing system was not a specific cost, but included in the regular cost they were paying anyway. Once again, what I have said before is not true that the first two months of financial recovery is negative or that we have collected less taxes this year than we did in the same period last year. The fact is that revenue is allocated slightly differently after the days of last year, so direct comparison of the month is incorrect or misleading. During the whole three-month period, the corresponding period of January, February, March, the revenue at that time of December-February was more than 5% higher than in last year's year. As regards the claim that it is necessary to work on the market in one farmer or in one person who is on the market for more tax receipts, this is not the case. One cashier's room is enough. It is true, however, that if an individual on the market sells products that are not all the products of its complementary work, but that there are more people on that farm carrying different complementary activities, it must be demonstrated from the invoices issued who is actually or separately must then be shown in the records to which the operator of the complementary activity is credited. Maybe just one more time about the closure. The data show a higher number of deleted business entities from the register of taxable persons in December 2015 compared to December 2014, but again, 700 of them were linked to the agricultural activity where the story changed due to the amendment of the Income Act. 40 % of those who have become independent entrepreneurs have entered into regular working relationships, 13 % have been employed on the basis of other contractual relations, and all of this shows that they have already done essentially work in an independent relationship, even though they have declared themselves independent entrepreneurs. 28% of those who stopped doing business have retired. In order to conclude, as in all other regulations, it is necessary to monitor its implementation in practice, to ensure uniform implementation and also to analyse the effects and to prepare any changes on the basis of this analysis. We are doing all of this, and we will also be doing so in advance when, on the basis of actual analyses, we also propose to amend the law if necessary. At this point, however, we assess that the proposed law would be a negative message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u84	Madam President, thank you for the floor. See, as proponents, we are convinced that the procedure put in for the abolition of the tax registers has been correct. The fact is also that today's debate has shown that a large part of the coalition MPs and Members are aware that this law is weak and that it has many irregularities and also many of the risks that we have already pointed out before the introduction of this law have now proved to be correct in practice. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the introduction of tax can in no way contain the scope of the grey economy, which was also probably the red thread of this government and the coalition, why the introduction of tax registers. The fact is that with the introduction of tax registers you have done enormous damage in particular, I would say to smaller craftsmen, especially society, and, I would say, to all schools, which today are almost unable to carry out charitable activities such as bazaar and similar matters. The fact is, even through today's debate, we have been able to come to the realization that both the Government and the coalition are aware of the mistakes you have made, but these mistakes will cost Slovenia dearly. Why would you need an additional three months, four months, and cause further damage to your marriage to change? Dear Secretary of State, look, I'm sure if you start introducing exceptions to this law, you'll do the domino effect and you'll do a lot more bad will. The only correct measure would be to abolish the tax registers completely and to return Slovenia to the system it had previously had. Madam Secretary of State, I'd like to know how you're going to defend the exceptions to this law in two or three or four months' time, because you were right, I'd say the most rigorous of all exceptions to the adoption of the tax law. You have repeatedly stressed that if this tax law is to succeed, it must be without exception. Now it is already said here how the government coalition thinks about exceptions; the Minister of Agriculture proposes a certain segment up to the level; I think 7 000 500 euros – to be forgiven, are talking about firefighters' societies, school bazaars and similar matters. Look, let's think about it, this is the first reading, and let's put an end to this tax box, which has proved to be a big mistake, and above all, that these tax receipts will not achieve the results that you presented in the National Assembly and the general public, and that tax receipts will lead to significantly more negative effects for Slovenia than positive. A respected government, a respected coalition, let us once pour pure wine so that laws do not change because one part of the population or one segment, a certain part, has violated the law. Let them know; those who break the law, and not then, I would say, because of individuals, individuals or a small part of legal or physical entities then go into amending the whole legislation. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that you have a lot of experience and also a lot of knowledge and let's give it to ourselves once, I would say, to admit what causes the grey economy. The grey economy is mainly driven by the measures taken by your government and your coalition, as the grey economy is causing, I would say, a higher scale mainly of tax burdens, an increase in administrative measures. Consider the experience of Germany. Germany noted that the increased number of social transfers and the increased minimum hourly rate increase the grey economy. In Germany, this is precisely why the grey economy is shrinking because a certain segment of social transfers has been declining. With certain tax burdens, with additional tax burdens, you only increase this grey economy. It would make sense when you report that you have given yourself a deadline of five, six months, what is the effect with regard to higher value added tax revenues, to exclude this segment, which has been used to establish software and technical equipment. We have already warned you that we will not now come to the realization that the value added tax revenue has remained at the same level or slightly increased, and then we will come to the realization that the value added tax is higher in the budget because legal and natural persons had to purchase software and technical equipment to set up the tax registers. That's why I said I wanted to hear your grade. We have made an assessment of the impact on the budget in the event that the country should reimburse these costs. But, look, you have all the resources under your command, and if you wanted to, you'd come in a very simple way or faster than some opposition party. We have made an assessment, so I challenge you, Madam Secretary of State, to provide data on how many invoices have been issued in full with regard to the establishment of software and technical equipment. Dear Government, a respected coalition, I am sure that Slovenia needs a fundamental tax reform, in its entirety: from the income scales to the burden of work and excise policy. I think it would be much more effective if the government came before Parliament, before the general public and said: look, we are aware that taxes in Slovenia are too high, we will have to make some reform. Many would be happy to pay taxes, because we know that taxes have a different function, not only have budget filling functions, but they also have a development function, because today both education and public goods are financed from taxes. Dear Secretary of State, I think that the greatest challenge for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would be to be aware of the importance of paying taxes, in particular that the State or Furs issue a report once a year on what the taxes collected were actually spent on. If you wrote that six new kindergartens, six new primary schools, had been built out of these taxes, a new hospital had been built, but most of these things were probably going somewhere else to solve the mistakes of this government. An additional 50 million will have to be given to the DUTB because you decided to attach the Factor Bank and Probank in a very untransparent way. At the beginning of your debate, you denied this, but the public deficit will not be what you predicted, it will not be 2.2%, but will be 2.9%. 300 million have been hidden somewhere, 300 million more public deficits Slovenia will have! Our largest system bank in 100 percent state ownership has an incomplete supervisory board, has no perfect leadership. Look, let's do this. But no, you will say we lost 300 million there, we will lose 50 million there, we sell state property to tax havens, but the budget has to be filled and, of course, the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition of the Modern Centre Party, Desus and SD bring new tax burdens to the National Assembly. Dear Government, a well-respected coalition, let yourself be aware that the tax is not only to fill the budget, but also has a developmental function. But you've forgotten about these developmental functions. You have permanently introduced VAT increases, additional administrative measures burden the economy, burden citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, increase excise duties and all this to fill the budget, but of course, in another way probably cover the mistakes made by this government by Mira Cerar and this coalition. All these errors will cost the Slovenian economy, Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. You have been given the floor by all the debaters you wanted, because the time set for the debate has not yet taken place, and I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. No, no, no. So no one wants to discuss it. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is the first defence proposal for a law amending the law on the organization and financing of cultivation and education. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Mrs Jelka Godec's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! Today we have before us the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party to amend the law on the organisation of education and financing, which is essentially a fundamental law that sets everything in the field of education and education from kindergarten to the end of high school. It therefore lays down a network of institutions, funding, legal identity, organisation and also provides for the adoption and setting of educational programmes. The ZOFVI, which is so called, is now provided for in Article 86, paragraph 2, for a private school implementing a public programme to provide 85% of the funds that the State or the local community provides for the implementation of public school programmes. On 4 December 2014, the Constitutional Court, by its decision, stated that the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI is inconsistent with the Constitution and laid down in point 2 that this unconstitutionality should be abolished within one year of the publication of the decision. Today is a year and four months, but we still do not have a change to the law proposed by the government, so we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party today, which is the third time that we have tabled or tabled the amendment of the ZOFVI, of course in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court adopted on 4 December 2014. For the first time, this proposal was tabled on 15 March 2015, the second time on 16 December 2015 and so today is our third attempt. It is not about the will of the Slovenian Democratic Party or our proposal, as the media say, that we want to equalise the financing of private and public schools and that it is our priority to increase the share of private education and not to advocate quality public education. Far from it! We follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, which the coalition and the government did not do in a year and four months. In the Constitutional Court's decision, we can also read real claims, such as that of a private person, say a pure quote: "Comparation with European countries is supposed to show that private education in the Republic of Slovenia is very poorly developed. After a successful completion of primary education, private schools shall issue a public certificate confirming completed primary education." We can read further, 'The government agrees with the initiative of the applicants and considers that the provision is contrary to the Constitution. It refers to Eurostat's data, which shows that the proportion of private education in the Republic of Slovenia compared to other EU members is minimal and therefore considers it to be minimal" – the government –"that the existing legislation challenged by the initiators does not actually allow private education in our country. The Government considers that the principle of equality in respect of the principles of the social state so far ensures equal public financing of equal positions, i.e. public and all types of private schools with a public programme." If I return to Eurostat data, which is also referred to by the Government in the above mentioned facts, 98.4% of students and students attended public schools in 2011. In doing so, I should point out that the average in the European Union is 82%. 0.9% visited countries and financing of private school remains 0.7% of students attended independent private schools. [[...]] That 0.9%, or what you're talking about today, about private schools that are supposed to threaten public education, should I list private primary schools for you. The Waldorf School Ljubljana, which began teaching in the school year 1992/1993, Alojzija Šustjara Ljubljana Primary School – started teaching 2008/2009, Montessori Institute, Institute of Parental Assistance for the Development of Children, started working 2010/2011, the Waldorf School of Education Maribor – started working 2015/2016 and Anton Martin Slomška Maribor Educational Institute, Montesssori Primary School – started working 2015/2016. I'm not gonna count public schools because there are over 400. Therefore, we are talking about a percentage of 0.9 which threatens public education and for this reason the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the coalition does not want to support or want to enter into the law what the Constitutional Court provides. If it has been said yesterday that public servants who do not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the legal basis have nothing to do in the public sector in public sector services, public administration, then it is time for something to be done in this area as well. We therefore propose to the National Assembly that a constitutional decision of 4 be followed. 12. 2014 and allow private schools 100% funding in the event of, of course, implementation of the publicly applicable programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u88	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the proposed amendment of the law and notes that the proposal to amend Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is identical to the proposal already proposed by the SDS Group on 3 December 2015. The Government shall adopt the same position as the decision of the Government of December 2015 in relation to the identical proposed amendment to this Article of the Act. The position has already been presented right here in the National Assembly with a commitment to prepare changes to the law that will take account of the criteria set out below. These commitments, which we have made here, are also prepared in the form of a proposal to amend the law, which has been published 15 years ago. 4. E-democracy and mediated to public debate. In this context, let me point out that, in terms of relations or the importance of public-private education, it is first of all important to stress that it is extremely important for us to maintain and develop quality, accessible and inclusive public education in Slovenia, while at the same time allowing the private to provide a rich school space, to give selectivity and also to the diversity of programmes. Otherwise, private education was regulated by legislation in 1996. Private education is based on Articles 54 and 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The regulation of this area also took into account the provisions of the General Declaration on Human Rights, which in Article 26 ensures that parents have the right to choose the type of education for their children and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which further defines private schools in the Appendix to Article 29. It is also important to say that these provisions are not to be interpreted as violating the rights of individuals and bodies to set up and manage educational institutions. Similarly, the Slovenian Constitution, which provides in Article 54, provides for the right and duty of parents to maintain, educate and raise their children. This right and duty can only be withdrawn or restricted to parents for reasons that, in order to protect children's interests, the provision of the law or in Article 57, "education is free". The area of private education and kindergartens was regulated by the 1996 legislation by the fact that only 85% of the funds paid and paid to a student or a student were received by public schools if they had obtained the public service of their programmes and had met some other conditions related to the provision of conditions and programme implementation. Some programmes, particularly those with special pedagogical principles, have made it difficult to provide such a minimum level of entry and this has also led to changes in legislation. The 1996 legislation also regulated the situation of private schools, which existed in the field of Slovenia by the enactment of the law and after the adoption of this legislation in 1996, several private kindergartens, three primary schools and three secondary schools were also mentioned in the address. However, the many social changes that have taken place in recent years, which have updated the issue of public-private education relations, raise even more questions than the issue of funding, which we are dealing with in the 2015 Constitutional Decision itself. This is about increasing interest in regulating this area due not only to migratory flows, but above all to the developments of international changes that have taken place over the past ten years, especially in the light of what some schools have included in the concept of private, in particular in terms of governance, in terms of resource acquisition, in terms of ownership of premises and other factors. All these reflections recently, including those created in the Slovenian space, call for the regulation of the educational system in a way that ensures the accessibility, quality and fairness of education. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes to reject the law proposed by the SDS Group, because it considers that, for these reasons, and on other grounds, the financing of existing private schools should also be regulated by other elements related to all these social changes, and that is what we have also rounded up in the proposal for amendments to the law that we have already published in the E-democracy. Thank you very much. I think time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u90	Dear Vice President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Even though this is now the third attempt by the SDS Group to finance private education from public money, that is to say, the money of all taxpayers who owe part of their income to the State to grant them certain rights, including the almost free education of children, even this time in the Desus Group we will not rely on the decision of five constitutional judges. With regard to the Constitutional Court's decision, we have already expressed our views in our Group and will not comment on it today, let me just remind you that such contradictory decisions in those matters or taking positions on the same matters raise doubts about the reliability of the rule of law and are not a good way to further develop the legal system and do not mean anything good for the preservation of the social state. To this day we have somehow had a rather well-established relationship in our society, in our country, between public and private at least in the field of education. From the experience of the emergence of private health care, we could already learn what it means to pour public money into private white robes. Who is injured in this – of course those who wait long months for a service that is otherwise payable from a compulsory medical basket. Since the medical apparatus is financed by taxpayers’ money occupied with patients who can go deep into their pockets and pay services beyond the waiting line, those who do not have more than a minimum wage or pension will have to wait a little longer. A fine typical example of the establishment of competition, which is dictated by the neoliberal principle of the functioning of society. And what does this mean in the case of education and education? The economic crisis has already reduced funding for public education. What we remember is that the problem of branch school was that schooling aid was at stake, school meals and lunches to the socially vulnerable were threatened. The next possible step that we can expect from a larger outflow to private schools is the issue of quality, the quality of education offered by public schools. If we follow the full equalisation of the private and public, this can only lead to the denial of the constitutional provision which manifests Slovenia as a social state. In the Desus Group, we believe that the social state, which the Republic of Slovenia is supposed to still be, and this is also, according to the constitution, must first take care of the most consistent provision of public goods, which today our public schools, ideologically, philosophically and religiously, are still burdened. Of course, in the Desus Group we are not against the establishment of private schools, but we are certainly against the privatisation of education. With such a legal provision, the unconditional opening of the door to the multitude of economic and other appetites will be very close to doing so. Such a liberal way of spilling budgetary resources from private schooling of children is unacceptable for us Members and Members of Desus. This bill will be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is justified by the fact that the Constitutional Court has adopted a decision which also imposes a period within which this law should be amended and fully financed by public funding for private education. Therefore, the following facts should also be highlighted at the outset; that is, despite the fact that the applicant refers in the context of this removal to the undue payment of the tuition of parents of children in private schools since 1996, this bill does not contain or eliminates this solution. As regards the decision of the five judges of the Constitutional Court, however, it should be noted that this judgment did not take into account previous judgments, which is extremely unusual if I can use this mild term. It is also not possible for the legislator to waive the right and duty to regulate the situation in society in accordance with the principle of the division of power. 3. Article 3 of the Constitution states that in Slovenia, the authority of the people, which is exercised directly and by elections according to the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial. In this case, the judiciary has decided and has not in fact given the legislative branch any opportunity to regulate the relationship between private and public. Thus, the decision of the Constitutional Court has in fact ignored this provision in Article 3 of the Constitution. Finally, it has also overlooked a specific case which the Constitutional Court has already issued in its two previous decisions in 2001 and 2007, of course in favour of the legislative branch of power. The arguments why it should be completely different in 2015 are not found in this Decision and in the explanation of the five judges. Of course, there is a difference in attitude among others who have opposed it. Therefore, in fact, we are strengthened by all of this in the belief that there are no strong arguments for equalising the financing of public and private schools. In doing so, we would like to draw particular attention to this fact, in particular, that there is still a need to clean up the relationship between private and public. We are convinced that we cannot be equal in private and in public and that we cannot receive the same level of public funding. For the first time, in private and in public, they differ in the scope of the services they provide, with the private school's obligations significantly lower than those of the public school. The private school must carry out only part of the subject; it must provide only minimal knowledge, non-binding provisions on educational periods, on school calendars, on the formation of classes, departments and teaching groups, on the implementation of educational work, on the simultaneous presence of the teacher and teacher in the first class. Private school is not subject to staff restrictions on who can work in the extended living units, morning protection, and has also been relaxed on the competence of staff and could also be listed. Secondly, even private and public differences already differ in their interests. The private interest is based on ideological, religious or even political foundations. However, each person has the right to think in his own view, and in this regard the position of the 2007 Constitutional Court should be stressed when it has examined several laws in the field of the functioning of religious communities. It points out that, by virtue of the principle of sovereignty, only a State lays down the limits to which the performance of tasks under national jurisdiction may be left to the private spheres and, of course, under what conditions. Among these tasks, the Constitutional Court also includes the educational field. Last but not least, the private interest is, of course, an extremely important motive for profit. An international comparison is also instructive in this regard. The Swedish experience with the voucher system as the most pronounced form of respect for the right of parents to choose a school can be seen in this comparison. However, the enthusiasm for the private initiative has turned into an irreversible breakdown of public education, which has resulted in poorer students' achievements on international comparative scales. And here we wonder if this is the way Slovenia must follow. As a small country, knowledge is even more important to us and if we do not worry about it, of course we will become even more dependent and even less sovereign than it is in some other areas. And for the third time, in private and in public, they also differ in openness. Private schools in law reserved the right to choose students. The Law on Primary Schools leaves the decision to enroll students in private school, and of course the public school must be accessible to everyone, including the child who wants to go to private schools; and of course it is. These are the key differences that need to be taken into account and understood before we decide on how we will implement the decision or respond to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, last but not least, denied its previous decisions, as I quoted earlier. Of course, the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group on the basis of all the above cannot be understood as a strengthening of attacks on the public welfare system. Once the public is gone, only the interests of the private will prevail, the interest of the free market will be realized, and the interest of those who have money, the care of the individual, the common man, will be realized in another way. And when the public no longer exists, the social state will in fact be an unnecessary article in the constitution. Disruption of public education is one of the most important consequences of such efforts and the irreparable consequences of this work, of course we can monitor health today. Let us ask ourselves in this area whether we have a marked border between public and private health care and what priorities we have in this health sector. Are patients a priority, or are patients a priority? According to species, even with the events we have experienced in the last year, even with the death outcome, we can say that the patient did not prevail, he did not take over the interest in protecting the person, but in money. We therefore call on the Social Democrats to support the proposal to supplement Article 57(2) of the Constitution. We have already put the proposal into the procedure, together with the other applicants, and this proposal states: "Basic education is compulsory and is financed by public funding in public schools. Private primary schools may also be co-financed from public funds under conditions and at the level provided for by law." This is a solution with which we can resolve the complexity created by the Constitutional Court when it has actually overturned its previous decisions, where it has very clearly decided that the legislator's decision to finance the state entirely only public schools in which all parents can enroll their children is in the field of its judgment and therefore is not in conflict with the Constitution. This is one of the decisions before this decision that happened a good year ago. This error can be rectified by amending the Constitution and understanding this issue by at least two thirds of Members and Members of the National Assembly. At a time when the relationship between public and private education is blurred, I think with certainty we can come into the situation that has been established in Sweden – the quality of education has decreased, the accessibility to education has decreased, and this is certainly not the direction that we want in Slovenia, so that we can become as successful as possible and, if you want, a more competitive society just because of the knowledge and the high added value that we can create with this knowledge. We will, of course, reject this law by desiring and reiterating that we do, however, approach the constitutional change and also clearly outline the role of both the National Assembly and the legislative branch of government, as well as the relationship between public and private in the field of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The text is given by the United Left Group, Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the third time after a decision by the Constitutional Court, we have before us an identical proposal by the SDS on 100% financing of private schools with a publicly recognised programme. We will also vote against this proposal for the third time in the United Left. Pursuing the SDS by constantly investing this novel is a good illustration of the trend, as well as a conscious and planned commitment to substantiating the foundations of a public, accessible and quality public school system. Education and education have been the subject of an extremely negative invasion of private interests in the last good decade. It is logical that the private owner of the school does not have and cannot have the same interest as the state, whether he wishes to take profit or in some way incorporate his beliefs or any other purpose in the curriculum. Where approaches or methods of alternative models for the implementation of the pedagogical approach are objectively more appropriate, more humane and so forth, it is, of course, the task of the public school system to incorporate them into its teaching practice in accordance with its professional assessment. On the other hand, private interest in the form of so-called cooperation with an economy that is a neoliberal mantra repeated by the entire political establishment. This often leads to a decline in the quality of the learning process; students and students do not receive a comprehensive education but only what is supposed to be useful in the market. About ten years from now, when the educational process is completed, no one can prophesy prophetically. This is why socialisation is often a matter of constant flexibility, the fate of non-permanent, non-typical employment and neoliberal principles in line with the principle: each individual is an entrepreneur. The solution is a consistent separation between private and public. At the same time, we would step on the fingertips of privileged elites in the public sector, which are at the expense of the majority of employees. There is also a narrow elite in public institutions, which has privileged access to both economic and political power, whether doctors working through espies in the afternoon or professors in colleges who pay their astronomical fees. In the United Left, we strongly oppose the public financing of private schools, both with concessions and without them. The decision of the Constitutional Court on the financing of publicly recognised private school programmes is not in the spirit of Article 2 of the Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a legal and social state, nor is it in accordance with the interests and well-being of most people in that country. Constitutional judges and judges have their views, and in this case, unfortunately, this is all before a lonely decision, with a minimum of a private interest at the expense of public common interest. Of course, without a proper argument, they annulled their 2001 decision, which was contrary to this. The right path is to amend Article 57 of the Constitution and to clearly defend public education. What does an additional 15% of the funding for private schools implementing public programmes mean? Fully funded private schools will be able to achieve superstandard education with only a small contribution from parents or a supplement that can be called tuition, leading in the long term to the predominance of private education over public education. Such education is not universally available, but is selective on the basis of property, which strengthens class divisions in society, as we get one school system for the poor and another school system for the rich. The private school of its pupils may choose, discriminate on the basis of ethnicity or handicap in order to avoid pupils facing the greatest difficulties in the learning process. This, respected and respected, is extremely dangerous! We must not forget, however, how public education is completely undernourished due to austerity and tightening, but new and new cuts are being forecast again and again and again, and private schools are parasitic with the same means of saving heavily. It is a clear neoliberal attack on public education that leads to increasing commercialisation, increasingly poor quality and increasing inequality in society. That education has become public and secular, in other words, that it has been organised by the state, not by private institutions – i.e., historically these were mainly religious communities – is one of the greatest achievements of the European education project. Of course, the country is also pursuing its objectives, as education is not carried out in a vacuum. The school raises students and students for a capitalist society. Nevertheless, universal access to quality education is crucial, as the school system enables social mobility, in no way to an integral extent, reduces the differences, social benefits and disadvantages that each is experiencing at birth. In order to equalise differences and to allow equal opportunities, the school system must work from basic education forward, not to strengthen this difference, as a result of the 100 % funding of public programmes in private schools. Education and knowledge must be accessible to all, since intellectual heritage is the property of all mankind. At the same time, from a developmental point of view, quality and accessible public education is an alternative to peripheral underdevelopment, where, through privatisation, belt tightening and structural reforms, all the last governments are taking us without exception. In the United Left of the SDS, we are absolutely opposed to the proposed amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education and will vote against further consideration of this proposal. We oppose the proposal because it is a continuation of the neoliberal attack on public education; we oppose it because in the United Left we strongly support the laity, quality and accessible public education for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mrs Ljudmila Novak has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u96	Madam Minister, President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The proposed amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education has been discussed for the third time, as it has been exposed several times. Not on the proposal of the Government or the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, as would be normal, but on the proposal of the opposition party. As we have repeatedly warned Christian Democrats, it has been a good year since the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In the constitutional procedure, it decided that the first sentence of the second paragraph, Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes, was inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has decided that the Constitutional Court must abolish the constitutionality established within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. When establishing non-compliance with the provisions on the co-financing rate of the implementation of public primary education programmes, the Constitutional Court stressed, inter alia, that primary education is compulsory in Slovenia. Parents therefore have the right to choose primary schooling for their children in a public or private school which implements a public primary school programme or as a home education. Five private public primary school providers from 458 primary schools in the Republic of Slovenia are included in the survey of primary schools, accounting for about 1% of private schools, which are expected to endanger all 458 public primary schools. We Christian Democrats once again find that the right of parents to choose the way their children are educated is being substantially curtailed in this state's attitude towards private education. The fact is that only one of the private public school providers receives 100 % co-financing of the programme, i.e. equivalent to state schools and only 85% of the funds. We reiterate that it is the means to provide salaries and other personal benefits to employees and to cover the material costs of the activities and tasks necessary to carry out the educational activity. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the application and the consequence of the decision and the reasoning do not relate to investment, investment in maintenance and equipment and that it does not refer to the specific content offered by private primary schools, such as confessional education and others. The Decision on non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia refers solely and exclusively to the different state funding of public primary programmes in different schools, state and private. Christian Democrats know that private schools are enrichment for Slovenian school space, also provide a minimum choice, improve the quality of education and promote healthy competitiveness. Above all, they are cheaper for the country than state schools. An important aspect of private primary schools is also in the implementation of various teaching doctrines such as Montessori, Waldorf and others. The State should encourage such an enrichment of the primary school space in our country, and that is exactly what the Constitutional Court imposed on it by a decision. We are aware that the ministry should also be preparing a novel to regulate this area, but we are afraid that it will cause new inequalities, and I hope that our fear is not justified. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be considered the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u98	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague, colleague! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in the second paragraph of Article 57, provides that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. It follows that the Constitution grants pupils the right to visit the compulsory public education programme free of charge. At the end of 2014, the Constitutional Court held that children have the right to a free public policy programme, regardless of whether it is exercised by a public legal entity or by a private body. Accordingly, it was also decided that the State of public education programmes implemented by private schools without concession should be financed to the same extent as the financing of educational programmes included in the public school network. Today's debate is therefore at first glance simple, aimed at a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2014, focusing on the scope of private school funding, but for the SMC Group this debate also raises broader issues of understanding education in general and in particular private. Therefore, allow me to raise some questions which, when we discuss this issue for our Group, are as important as the important solution proposed by the SDS Group in the Law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Perhaps, at first glance, the contradictory position that we have taken since the beginning, which we have advocated for the third time in this reference, is that, on the one hand, we support the amendment of the Constitution in a way that does not endanger the network of public schools, while at the same time supporting the implementation of the constitutional decision, but at the same time adding that the statutory law in this area must be supplemented by conditions for the adoption and implementation of programmes and the financing of school activities. We are reminded of this, respected and respected, by the social changes and processes we face, of the recent experiences of other countries and of the many international studies that call us to reflect on the comprehensive regulation of private education issues. I'm gonna pull over a little bit on quality. The first paragraph of Article 17 of the Act on the organisation and financing of education and education provides that the content and procedure for the adoption of the private school curriculum shall be determined by means of an act establishing it. The educational programme becomes public, I emphasise it becomes public when the competent professional council finds that the programme is in line with the aims of the education and education system in the Republic of Slovenia and that it provides an equivalent educational standard. The criteria according to which the expert council finds the achievement of an equivalent educational standard are not laid down in the law, nor are the requirements for checking whether the programme contributes to the enrichment of the school space. Justifiably or even rhetorically, we may wonder how different private school programmes are in force or existing ones are from the public programmes implemented in public schools in a way that provides substantive complementation and enrichment of school space. In this regard, we add that the concrete implementation of the programmes needs to be checked or evaluated, but not to believe freely that all private schools, or especially those that may arise in the future, will invariably complement and upgrade the public school premises and thus the network of public schools. As long as adequate guarantees for the quality of private schools do not exist, care for quality public education is justified in our opinion. Your Honor! Once again, let us stress that we do not want to disrupt our relationship with private education in relation to public education, as was the case with conceptual origins established in the mid-1990s and which is, above all, understood as the substantive enrichment of public school space. The proposed law, which is pragmatically focused only on the aspect of the percentage of funding, will not be supported, but it does not mean that the many-mentioned amendment to the law currently in public debate has offered – at the same time meets the Constitutional Court's requirement for equivalent funding and at the same time opens another, with quality and additional funding conditions for the related issue. Nor should we ignore the fact that there is still a debate on constitutional change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u100	Dear Vice President, Minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues, nice greeting! Currently, we will probably all know what we are talking about in Article 86 that in a private school implementing the programmes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, 85% of the funding provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme will be provided for the implementation of the programme. That was the case, but following the decision of the Constitutional Court of 4 December 2013, the cases were to be slightly different, since the Constitutional Court and not the SDS, the Constitutional Court decided that Article ZOFVI, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, was in the work relating to the applicable primary education programmes in breach of the Constitution and provided that the State Assembly should abolish the constitutionality established within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal. Today, we have heard about previous Constitutional Court decisions on similar topics, on similar topics, on respected opponents of this law, and not on the same topics, because no Constitutional Court decision has spoken, for the first time, about programmes and in the field of basic education, and this is a key difference and it falls down all your theory and flaking of flowers on how the previous decisions of the Constitutional Court have spoken differently. There has been a great deal of pressure today in the position of the Group of Members on how to defend publicly and how it is privately demolishing publicly. We're talking about primary education. 0.3% of private schools in Slovenia. If 0.3% of private schools in Slovenia cancel public education, then, respected, we have a huge problem in Slovenia. Because then, in every area, 0.3% of something can break 99.7% of something. Then we have a well-respected big problem. However, there should be a particular problem for those who oppose this law, on the other hand, your home, close or acquaintances are educated in private primary, secondary and higher schools, visiting private doctors and serving all other services provided by the private sphere, from the economy and so on. This time, once again, we are talking about three private schools where the Constitutional Court and not the SDS Group decided that their funding for the programmes should be equal to 100%. Today all those masks are falling as we speak, yes primary school is compulsory and financed by the state. Mandatory yes, but all those who are parents – the primary school is financed by the state – would probably all applaud and be immediately behind this step if you didn't have to pay anything, what the constitution says is that primary school is compulsory and paid by the state. But in the area of private primary schools, the country is a plus, because the state finances only programs and investments that those who comply with certain rules laid down by the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for education – and he is the one who says whether we can still have any school to be a religious, church, Catholic, Muslim or purely private, private primary school of Janez Novak from where he wants to have a program, a public program, and is willing to invest himself in the building and equipment. The Constitutional Court does not talk about this; the Constitutional Court only speaks about the financing of programmes. In short, if there were any more private primary schools, the state would be a plus, and especially the municipalities that are now pursuing the goals of having children in their congregation good school, not being built before World War II, so that the ceiling of the gym does not hit these children and so on. The state and the congregation would be a plus. But the socialist thought of this country is: all equal, all poor and all under one indoctrination of the former system. Yeah, and that's why today's our third try. In the first attempt immediately after the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Ministry said, we have one year of time, we are in no hurry, we will be able to resolve this as is the case with the decision of the Constitutional Court. And after one year, when the President of the Government obviously analyzed, he was thinking, and he probably was doing something else, but nothing concrete, it was said, only a little more, and it will be because we have to sort things out. Today, after one year and four months, the same government response is again under the leadership of Mir Cerar, who says there will be little when there is. In short, I think that the thinking of the SMC Group in some reasonable part of the coalition is another decision on whether to pursue liberal thinking or socialism. I hope they will not choose pragmatic thinking, which is, rather, to do nothing and wait until the end of this government's mandate. Why, Your Honor, such an introduction? April 19, two days ago: "The Prime Minister of the Government of Miro Cerar at a visit to the Office of St. Stanislav promised to equalize the financing of public and private primary schools. The President of the Government of Miro Cerar visited the Office of St. Stanislav today, where private primary school and high school work. The visit was particularly interesting from the point of view of the current debate on the financing of private education in our country. The SMC has recently taken the view that the decision of the Constitutional Court must be implemented as soon as possible, but has also advocated amending the Constitution." In short, or liberally, sanely respect the decision of the Constitutional Court or in some socialist manifestation to change the constitution in order to make a circuit of the current constitution. "Prime Minister Cerar first attended the Aloysie Schuštar elementary school. Interestingly, many children told him that their parents were employed by the government or its services." Oh, shit, don't we, we got a problem! "The interlocutors, namely the President of the Government and the Director of the Institute, also touched on the issues of co-financing of private primary schools. Dr. Globokar recalled that private primary schools account for 0.2% of all schooling children." 0.2%! And what the President of the Government said, moral, constitutional and I do not know the authority of this government and this country: "Cerar entrusted the students with the position of SMC that the decision of the Constitutional Court must be enforced without delay." On 19 April, the President of the Government said that "the decision of the Constitutional Court must be implemented without delay." And then he went on: "The Minister of Education rushed to get the law adopted as soon as possible. The matter will be publicised, then it goes to Parliament, our party will of course support it, and in the government I will try to reach agreement with the other two parties, perhaps even in a wider political space." Dear Minister, if you have a problem in the coalition, come to the opposition and you will receive 100% support for the application of the Constitutional Court's decision. I would also touch on the discussions in the National Assembly, but on this further. Next thing. On 5 April, the SMC Council discussed the financing of education and adopted a conclusion: "The SMC Council supports the amendment of the Constitution, which will ensure a clear distinction between public and private education, so that the network of public schools will not be compromised," which is why in the SDS Group we fully agree that at least in the field of education we can still separate between public and private, because you mix this up a lot. "Because the constitutional debate is still under way, the SMC Council," namely, the President of the Government, who, under your statute, is convened in the SMC Council, "supports the early entry into force of the constitutional decision, complementing the ZOFVI at the same time with the conditions for the adoption and implementation of programmes and the financing of school activities," and they explain, "SMC is committed to a quality and accessible public education," as we all do. "Private education is understood as an enrichment of school space," they write. Private education is understood as an enrichment of school space. So I suggest you vote like this. On 19 April an opinion will be delivered to the National Assembly on the proposal for the ZOFVI law by the Government – the government opposes the bill. Two days after the President of the Government says that the decision of the Constitutional Court must be implemented immediately, the Government writes, the same President of the Government – I think it is still, no, I hope, at least, otherwise – that the proposal of the Government law opposes because it was already the same law and of course you do not support it, and how, for other systemic reasons, it is necessary to make other elements regarding the functioning of the newly established institutions and so on. And they write, "the mentioned elements of private schools are already taken into account in the drafting of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the new ZOFVI, which is in the preparatory phase." And look at the charm, 20. 4, so yesterday, one day after the Prime Minister attended primary school, we get a proposal for the novel ZOFVI. But schment, the decision of the Constitutional Court is not heard of by the spirit. We will wait another month, two months, half a year, one year, end of mandate, one healthy reasonable government to get the ZOFVI, where the Secretary-General of the Government, after ordering the moral and constitutional authority of the President of the Government, will say, yes, he has finally matured the time to follow the Constitutional Court's ruling. But no. After a year and four months, we get ZOFVI, where the decision of the Constitutional Court has not been given him. They deal with some records of three-quarters of the law. Two more things to conclude. President of the Constitutional Court, "policy postpones decisions of the Constitutional Court because it disagrees with them." No! No! The current government postpones the decisions of the Constitutional Court because it does not agree with them, but violates the Constitution under the parliamentary mandate and violates the Constitution under the fiscal rule and violates the Constitution in the absence of a decision of the Constitutional Court on private education. Even more, President Miroslav Mozetič pointed out that politics has been simply delaying the implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions over the past two years and has the feeling that the policy postpones decisions because it does not agree with them, which is very problematic for him and for the rule of law, especially if non-implementation is conditioned politically or ideologically. Who, then, is involved in the political and ideological struggle? The Constitutional Court or, in particular, the left part as well as the central part of this National Assembly. As a slap on the back of the Constitutional Court, we get a copy of Whom is he sending a quality public education? There is no one, because there is a private good percentage in our country and we get a request from the SD Group, which wants to make a circuit of the current constitution and delete private education. I once told the Constitutional Commission that if you remove private education, I would suggest that you delete private health care and probably private property in the end. Let me get this straight. Your Honor! In the light of the article on how the President of the Government promises to implement the Constitutional Court decision without delay, and given that the amendment does not do so, there will be more to the vote. Is the President of the Government Miro Cerar a liar, a constitutional decision is needed to disregard the decisions of the Constitutional Court, or is the President of the Government one speaking and the other working? The answer will be today's vote. On this occasion, two other questions: Where is Branimir Strukelj a fighter for students and teachers? And last question: is public education really free? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Ms Jelka Godec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Next, as regards the opinions of the groups of Members. Everyone talks about the equalisation of public and private in terms of, of course, financing, which is also a topic and that goes Not all, but quite a few debaters talk about the fact that it is the will of the SDS. [[…]] Once again, it is not the SDS' will and it is not the Slovenian Democratic Party or the Members who wrote the Constitutional Court's decision. And today the question is why we have a Constitutional Court at all if the coalition does not fully comply with any provisions of the Constitutional Court. Yesterday, in fact, in some way, but today, I will say, she has symbolically trampled on the will of the people, the referendum and the Constitutional Court, today she does not recognize the Constitutional Court and Member Desus is wondering where we would come, but what kind of legal state we would have if we did. What legal state, or what Members, do we have a coalition to disregard the Constitutional Court or the Constitutional Court's decision? That's the first question. In fact, they deny the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted in December 2015, that private schools implementing the public programme – once again, I stress, the public programme of primary schools – should be financed by 100%. We also have private schools that have not asked for this because they do not implement a public policy and are financed entirely and of course with the contributions of parents. That's one thing. That's one thing. Secondly, it should be known that it is not true that private schools implementing the public programme will be financed at 100%, i.e. in full. For even today, the law, which is the Constitutional Court or those who have reached their right in the Constitutional Court, does not deny that private schools are not afforded public funds under Article 86 for investment, investment maintenance and equipment. So, once again, it's about funding programs and not investment and not equipment, no investment – all these private schools are getting money for it. Furthermore, public education, which you say is threatened by five primary schools, with less than a percentage of students and students in private schools, is protected in Article 87 of the ZOFVI, where it is well written that where public education or public school is at risk, a private school should not be established. However, none of the coalition says that there is still Article 87 of the ZOFVI, which remains unchanged. So if you're talking, you're scaring people – and the last time one of the coalition MPs said he didn't like being scared of people – that private education would prevail over public education and that it threatened public education, then say the whole thing. Please tell us that 100% will be financed by the programme, the implementation of the programme approved by the expert council at the Ministry and that no material costs are financed and so on and that in Article 87 public education is essentially protected. When there was a speech in the ZOFVI, I do not think that the criteria for public programmes are written anywhere in Article 17. Yeah, where would you go if you put all those criteria in the marriage? The marriage can then be on 150 pages with no idea how many articles. For this there are regulations adopted by the Council of Experts, the criteria adopted by the Council of Experts, the Council of Experts confirms the Ministry, the Government and so on. So they protected the rear, so the criteria and Mr Tabakovic, if you don't believe the ministries before and not now that these criteria aren't good enough, then you have all the leverage to change these criteria. You've got all the levers. What you're doing is happy, not just in the field of education, you're doing somewhere else, and that's another topic that we're about to get to. Where, then, would the rule of law or the rule of law be if we respected the Constitutional Court? So, I ask you again, where are we after a year and four months of disregarding the Constitutional Court? I've always said it's pointless to talk about private and public schools, talking about good and bad schools. We are talking about schools, which today – for example, in the field of public education there is no competition, there is no competition. Yes, but now 100% of you want to finance private schools, because we're going to lose all the good teachers! Then you have to ask yourself why they're getting away. Why won't they want to work in public schools anymore? For what? [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? That's also a question. They're afraid they're going to go because we're going to get competition because we're going to have a little better school or we're going to have them. And you say that some - I don't know which one of the Members said that today's public schools at primary school, he probably also meant high school, weren't ideologically burdened. This, however, can be particularly debated that public schools are not ideologically burdened. Is this a burden or an ideological burden for us to have celebrations with children dressed as pioneers? Is it not ideologically burdened that Šubič’s high school should first be invited by the independent Krković and then rejected under pressure? Were they not ideologically burdened by those colleges and schools that shared leaflets for the referendum during the referendum campaign in December? Aren't they ideologically burdened by the schools that have teachers who made them vote in favour and so on and so forth during the referendum? Not to mention, let's just say you don't have to worry about private schools. In fact, if you go to some primary schools for pedagogues, they do not have one prospectus for private school or high school. Kids don't even know about these schools. Then when parents say home, what if I try, I don't know, Anton Martin Slomsk's high school, they look at you fat. Should I go for the nun? This is the kind of vaccination that already discredits a private school in advance because it is established by the parties, we can say, churches, and they are implementing a public programme. And you say that only minimum standards are guaranteed. I have in my hands a subject of two public schools and one private school. I have examined the classes or number of these teaching hours, Slovenian full, mathematics full, English more than public school, knowledge of the environment full, society full, history more than public school, geography full, science full, nature and technology supplement, chemistry full, biology full - I speak for a private school – a practitioner additionally, musical art, visual art more than both, knowledge of religion – that is the problem. That's a supplement that's probably in the way! National and civic culture okay, sport, classical culture in particular, along with additional mandatory selection items and so on, full. I have compared one primary school in private and two public schools by subject, which has been published publicly on their websites. I won't talk about high school, I also have high school, but high school isn't really the subject of this debate today. I wonder, now that the Minister has said that the amendment to the ZOFVI has already been published on the E-democracy, I have just printed this change. While I must say that not entirely, I have examined, of course, the article that talks about financing, and it says, "Article 86 is being amended." Paragraph 2 states: "The private primary school shall be provided with 100% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the compulsory public school programme for the implementation of the nine-year primary school programme." Therefore, 100 % of the funding, if all b. p. "Private schools implementing the other educational programmes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article are provided for the implementation of the programme with 85% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme." The record remains: "Private schools do not have funds for investment, investment maintenance and equipment." Nice. So private schools that will have a public programme, such as standards, standards for primary schools after vocational school, so once the expert council at the Ministry confirms this, can receive 100% funding. Then we get to Article 9. Article 9 states: "The application of the provisions. The provisions of this Act shall not apply to schools established before its entry into force." So, schools -- that's what I'm explaining to myself -- which are today, these are today, and they're not going to be 100 percent funded, but they're going to be 85. That's how I explain it to myself after a quick checkup. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u103	Please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u104	Mr Han, I will call on the Minister to explain matters today if he can, because this is also in public debate. [[…]] But so can you, if you were a co-author of this, co-creator of this law. And I'm very surprised that they would be, given that 100% of the funding is written down. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u105	Mr. Han, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u106	My question is why we discriminate against schools set up today. If I misinterpret it, I ask the Minister or representatives of the Government to explain it, I will gladly accept this explanation. However, I am interested in something else, Madam Minister, because you are here, you said, I will not literally repeat it, but, given the social conditions that have arisen today and appear in Europe, somehow, some of the elements that are linked to the social situation in the legal and sub-legislative acts need to be regulated. I want to know what the elements are and what you've been thinking about, because after all this, we will see which private schools will be able to be funded 100% in the future. This is how I would say, after these responses from the parliamentary groups, it is clear that the coalition does not wish to respect the Constitutional Court, more than clearly, and that it is very afraid of competing private schools. It indicates that they are private, religious and political, which no one will deny, of course not, and that public schools are ideologically unburdened. It would also be interesting to open up this topic on the ideological independence of public schools on the home education committee. So, Madam Minister, given that you still have time or that you haven't even responded to this Article 9 or this new proposal by ZOFVI, which Mr Cerar also promised when he attended a private school, he made it clear that he did not agree to the change of constitution as proposed by the SD. I think there's some coordination for you on this. What are the social elements that influence today, or elements that need to be changed according to social conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. To clarify Article 9, the application of the provisions. The first sentence refers to Article 17, which is to change from the point of view of quality standards, this was also your question, what are those instruments and processes that we complement in the case of the establishment of schools in the future. This is a response to the changed social processes and, above all, we can say, experience not only in the surrounding countries, but also in the wider European countries. While the second paragraph is an explanation in Article 9 concerning the application of the provisions, of course it refers to funding. We know that a constitutional decision and a provision of law are already in force. So I hope that this explains that it will not be misunderstood in any way. The first part of the quality standards, not backward, because we cannot ask them back, while the financing for the future is because it is a proposal for an amendment to the constitutional decision, namely a commitment to funding under the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mrs Vesna Vervega for her, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u110	Good afternoon. If you look closely at Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, you can clearly see from it that the primary school in Slovenia is compulsory and that the primary school must be financed from public funds. It's an indisputable, clear fact. If I try to be plastic as much as possible, we have elementary schools in Slovenia, where the programme needs to be taken care of on one side and on the other hand we need to take care of the walls. If I am even more precise, the program is presented by teachers and all those implementing the programme on the other hand represent buildings, primary schools and similar things. Therefore, it is necessary to provide funds for teachers' salaries and, on the other hand, for the maintenance of this facility. In particular, we have 458 primary schools in Slovenia today, which are public, and 5 private schools. So people can imagine what storm we're talking about in a glass of water. Left and some of their companions have terrible fears about what these five schools will do to some traumatic changes compared to nearly five hundred. I hope that at least when these numbers are compared, it is not a real problem, but it is an ideologically-potential problem. Today, these 458 primary schools have practically full public funding. Pursuant to Article 57 of the Constitution, which I cited, these 458 schools require the State to provide money for teachers' salaries and money for the maintenance of these primary schools. So together, the state and the municipalities, so it comes from a public bag, are provided with all the money for 458 primary schools. Then we have 5 private schools, where money is provided for salaries only today, not entirely, but 85%, while private schools are responsible for the care of the walls or for the investments in the buildings themselves or their founders. Therefore, according to the Constitution, all citizens, as well as all children, should be equal, and the Constitutional Court has also found that. If primary school is compulsory and one is financed by a public programme, then it must also be financed by others. All of these five primary schools, which are private, are carrying out a publicly recognised school program. I think that those who advocate the principle of equality and equality should understand that equal work is followed by equal pay for the same programme. It's probably clear to everyone and it's hard to understand the left-hand side to oppose it. There is, however, an important difference here that children and parents who attend private schools are not in exactly the same situation as children who attend public schools because in public schools everything is fully financed by public funds and in private schools the thing is taken care of by the school itself, by the infrastructure, by the classrooms, if you want for the benches themselves, by the founder of the school. So that you don't say I'm talking about codes, we're going to talk about concrete tangible things. For example, the primary school of Aloyzi Šuštar, where is the founder of the Church; the Church is responsible for caring for tables, chairs, roofs, windows, heating, for all things. In the case of public schools, this cost is borne by all of us through the budgets of the municipalities and the state. Here's one fundamental difference when some people talk about how now we're going to make it possible for private and private school founders to get rich, and I don't know what kind of nonsense this is. Let me be very clear once again that the cost of the facility itself is on the part of the founder and will remain so in the future. This is a very important thing because a lot of people think that in the opposition or on the right side of this House, they are fighting to put the maintenance of these facilities at the burden of the country or the state costs. No, no, no. We do not fight for it, and at least as far as the maintenance of these facilities is concerned, everything remains the same as it is. Parents or the founder of private schools will still have to provide money for the maintenance of facilities. What we stand for, and here we are on the same side as the Constitutional Court, is that if someone carries out a publicly recognised programme, he must receive the same payment for the same programme. This was not least decided by the Constitutional Court, and it is truly incredible and interesting to hear the equals and equality fighters try to deny this fact with all possible arguments that equal pay must be ensured for the same programme. A very simple and simple story. Of course, this story has been politicized to the extreme because of political interests or because of some of the popular political points of the Social Democrats, Desus and all those who have signed or proposed fast constitutional changes in order to bypass the Constitutional Court's decision, when the Constitutional Court has said that the same programme is equal pay and the left wants to circumvent this decision with some constitutional tricks. But there's really no basis for that. It is just an ideological fight against some primary schools and nothing else, because no one can convince me that five primary schools in Slovenia, which are privately owned, can endanger the functioning of 458 primary schools. Today, we all have the opportunity to see this injustice, which has been happening to many children and their parents all these years, when these programmes have not been fully funded to correct this injustice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs Vesna Vervega has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han, followed by Mr Saša Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Knowledge is a public good and it is the responsibility of every single authority to provide quality education. A few days ago, I read the interesting views of a school principal who talked about the role that individual institutions should play in school and how they should influence school. I believe that some of the solutions I'm going to talk about are either talking about or going this way. I'll take one of the positions. Schools are teachers and students, and parents are schoolgoers. Schools are not inspections of the Ministry, institutions, agencies, all these institutions have to work to ensure that the school operates autonomously and professionally. Very, very interesting thinking, I'd say. They actually work at school. As we have already heard today, the impact of current social changes in education is a fact that we are already facing. In particular, I am thinking about these migration flows and the integration of these children into our school system. It is true, however, that in 2001, the Constitutional Court ruled Article 72 of the ZOFVI, which speaks of the autonomy of the school premises, but the court also wrote - Mr Lisec also said earlier - that the idea of parents sending children to private schools that their children are in an unequal position compared to children attending public schools is not justified. The legislator's decision to finance the state in its entirety only public schools where all parents can enroll their children is in the field of his discretion. So this was the position of the Constitutional Court in 2011. The difference between this and that or that recently in 2014, I would say, is also a reflection of some of the changes in society that I mentioned earlier. However, I myself consider that our country is, so far, for the functioning of private schools, I would say, adequately create conditions or establish these options at the appropriate level. But I have another question to answer. All parents can enroll their children in public schools. Are the registration conditions also the same at a private primary school, not only on paper, but also in practice? Who provides us with non-discriminatory treatment of children when entering both public and private schools? In 2014, the Constitutional Court therefore found that only the second paragraph of Article 86 was unconstitutional, but it did not establish the unconstitutionality of other articles — those which regulate the relationship between public and private in other fields. For example, an article setting out the criteria for entry into the alert, and then Article 17, which deals with the adoption of private school programmes, then the requirement for a certain proportion of regular staff of pedagogical workers discussed in Article 86. Then the question of tuition, the protection of the public network of schools and so on. Therefore, the level of funding is not the only criterion to be taken into account in the functioning of private schools. Given that the bill has already been dealt with twice here, and we believe it is flawed, we will probably repeat a number of other arguments from the previous or a discussion from the previous examinations of this law. Since 1996, clear legislation has established mechanisms that have enabled and regulated the establishment of private schools and their relationship with the public. This is how private schools enrich public schools and enable parents to make greater choices and complement the public school network. So here I just want to say that it is not, or in our parliamentary group, that we have never talked about private schools endangering public education or public school, to a large extent. How have we examined whether these additional content at a private school has enriched and complemented the public program or how it has affected the quality of the education received? It is true that this is provided for in Article 17 that it is provided for to be monitored, but not to evaluate the programme. So this is also a matter that would be good to settle in a new law or a new bill. The Ministry has therefore drawn up a proposal that is under public scrutiny and that is why we still do not have it on the table in the National Assembly. So it is still at public hearing and the issue is not simple, it needs to be seen from a broader perspective and we will probably have a chance to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Mr Sasa Tabakovic, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. According to the hall and the presence – so much for public education fighters. I must say that this debate is good for me to hear some of the views of some parties at all, because it is easy after a year and a half since the last Constitutional Court or the last five constitutional judges decided what they decided, I do not know exactly what the position of individual parties is except that it has now made Vesna happy, who has clearly stated what she thinks. Now, two things. I thought Tom Lisce and I were friends when we met again and again, but I can see that this socialism and communism, and I don't know what's really bothering him, but he did his job for his boss. I would say something, of course we cannot support this law, even though we understand the Slovenian Democratic Party and, in this case, New Slovenia. We cannot support it first for one simple reason, you know that the social democrats are the first to be signed under the amendment of Article 57. However, we have decided simply and simply, because this is of course an option, and secondly, because the fact that we had in the past – and in this case we also respect the Constitutional Court – in the past two decisions of the Constitutional Court, which first with nine Constitutional Judges speaks differently and clearly, demarcate public and private education and that private education is financed, how much the legislator or the legislator in fact gives. This, the current Constitutional Court, has, interestingly, by voting five judges against four, brought the matter back to the legislator that the legislator should essentially change the law and finance private education 100%. Once again, we respect the Constitutional Court, but, first of all, we must ask ourselves whether it is fair and right that the State finances two different programmes in the same way or at the same height. I don't think it's right. So, for my understanding, if we go with this law and what the Ministry of Education is now preparing and this law is in public treatment, in fact, I think it gives the private even more than he should be given. Why? Once again, it is not a whim of Social Democrats and some socialism, but it is a recognition, as I said, from two different judgments; one in 2001, the other in last year. We allow the Constitutional Court to decide otherwise, but we do not see the matter as if it were solved, so that we can clearly write down what we have written in the Constitution. What we — even for the sake of the public — intend to write down in the Constitution if, of course, we receive 60 votes and do not intend to take anything from private schools. Let us just write what Matthew said earlier, just to complement – basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds in public schools. Private primary schools may also be co-financed from public funds under conditions and at the level provided for by law. Pika! We are funding programmes of 85%. I must tell you that we are at the top of all European countries. Not exactly in the top, but in the first half. So much so that we want privates in some way, or their idea, to break. The fact is that some private school programmes and some of the conditions are under-ruled, so I hope you all agree, I have repeatedly stressed this. I can read it again, but I don't think it matters. As far as this is concerned, I must say that the Social Democrats think that we have excellent public education in Slovenia, says that we have more than 452 primary schools and a bunch of some branch schools, this is the total circus 800, that every child can come to public school, to every child of our primary school, to our public primary school, to give a good journey to life, and it seems to me that this is very important. In private education, however, I think it is a key problem and a key difference that every private person — these five private schools — has the possibility that when a parent knocks and wants to bring his child to this primary school, this door can be closed. I don't know if they ever shut down, they can close. Then where would this child go? Where is this child to go? That is why I think that 85% of these cases are also high enough for them to be able to finance without a problem. Dear Jelka, you used to explain and ask yourself what the Ministry is up to. And I'm just explaining to myself the other way around – and I hope they'll tell us. They think now that these five primary schools – one already has a concession and is already being funded 100 percent, Waldorf, okay, all the others do not have – lock these five schools in such a way that they will be financed 100 percent and all the others will be subject to severe conditions that no private person will ever be able to open a private school again. I have some concerns, too, sometimes. So these church schools will be financed 100 percent, they will have everything they have in public schools, and then they will be locked up, and no one will be able to open a private school anymore. Is that right? Where is this equality now and so forth? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'll never back you up! But I know that this law will go easily through, but the Social Democrats will never be supported. One more thing can happen – now I'm making it up a little bit, but, you know, I've been in politics for so long, it wasn't exactly a random visit and so on. [[…]] You know what? These schools that are now established, which are now going to be 100 percent funded if there's such a law, you know what can happen? Primary schools will start opening branch schools. You can do that, can't you? That's what you can do! Then, of course, this is absolutely unacceptable to us. Look, I'm not afraid of any Christian school, but you need to know what's public and what's private. When Matthew spoke earlier about how you are afraid of 300,000 euros and five schools and 485 so on, then I could ask 85 or 100%, whether the parent will give another 30 euros or the parents will not give 30 euros if he wants to have it there – yes, he should give 30 euros! Does the state have to pay? I think so. [[…]] [[advertising in the hall]] What? Last time I said, when we were with Ludmila at Studio City, probably someone from Radeč would like to go either from Laské or, say, from the Roman Toplice or from the private school of Aloysz Schustár. I guess someone would like to go. How can such a parent afford boarding school, transportation? In what way? [[advertising in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u115	I beg for peace, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u116	I speak very plastic that people will understand. But anyone can go to public school, of course, because he has to go; even more, we bring every child to primary school. Although this country is not financed as a state, it is financed by municipalities. The municipalities finance material costs, the municipalities finance salaries for kindergarteners, not here. So, my dears, I don't speak SDS, you have your own screwdriver, but believe me, we have Social Democrats, too, but it's true that behind you a big screw is seen, and behind us is thinr, because we are alone in this battle. It's just a problem. The fairest thing to do would be to close this story. The Constitutional Commission has made its own story, we have shared opinions, let us already vote once on what needs to be done, and if it does not go to the constitution, because there are only six of us, we need 54 more votes, it is fair to say no, and then we must respect the Constitutional Court. Yes, we do! Only then, my dears, not you, will we have to change the constitution slowly, but in the other article where it says social. Yeah, yeah, we're gonna have to do that! We will not support this marriage. But with interest, because I am confused that one marriage is coming, the other is in public debate. For God's sake, since we are in the coalition, let's be heirs - they also say to us at home, grandfathers - and let's put on the table what we want; let's accept, in democracy we know who has the majority, who is the winner – and certainly! Social Democrats, if we fail, we have not hoped, somehow we have not convinced a lot of Members. I don't have a problem with that, but let's just say once, look into our eyes, and let's just say what's not on it. So much for the fighters. Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor [[...]] Ms Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Mr Saša Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u118	Matjaž, I think they have a good fighter, so everyone else just left. Now this debate, which has now been closer to the end, I am confused as well. Apparently, you don't even talk to each other in the coalition – or what? I am already confused with these ZOFVIs, which are so many – proposals – that now you do not know which is in the public hearing, which is in the National Assembly, that you do not know either. You're gonna have to look yourself in the eye here. We can, let's tell each other. It was about the social state, but how can anyone afford it — or not, it was more of a guess that a public school had to take everyone and a private school could close the door. I don't know if that happened, but maybe it did. Find me one who couldn't go to private school if he wanted to? Now we're talking about the social state. This is exactly what the Constitutional Court wants to do to allow those who do not have the money to have that share funded 100%, that parents do not have to give extra money to the programme they visit. That they're on the same level as those in primary school. Those help, too. No! No! But here's the idea that we all have to be the same. It's important what family you were born in. At village school, I tell you, it's always been, but today is what family you were born in. If they had this, there was no problem doing a primary school with fives and a high school drop in the blink of an eye. This is a matter of concern to us. It's important where you're born. It's possible for those of you to do anything, but for some, the doors are locked. And if we're talking about a social state, then we need to listen to the Constitutional Court, which says that even those who can't afford a private school, because it's a tuition, should be allowed to visit programs. No extra charge. So we don't know if the door closes or if the door closes. Everyone can go to private school, I think. Can't everyone come? In high school – no one asked. Nobody asked who you are, where you are, what you are, what you are, success was important. I'm talking about high school. For high school. Same entry as everywhere. If there is a limit, there is a limit to the points, there is no debate. However, there is one major difference between public high school or admission to private school. Public schools on informative days, I was on three, only about: we are elite, our high school is an elite school, our high school has such success, such success, here we are gold, there we are silver, there we are not know what, what, third, I mean they're all musicians, they're all athletes, the whole school is on a state level, at three schools in one congregation. There's no telling where he's lying more. And in public school, I'm not gonna say a word about this, I'm gonna say, about the relationship of a fellow human being. In private school, no talk about where they are, what successes they've achieved. The first case raised was human relations, how school works in the sense of that, I'll say. Here's where I'm going to end: human relations. Not a single compliment about hearing that they have won a gold medal, and I don't know what it is, but the school is on top of success. In public school, listen to the manager call me, we're elite, and I won't let our students hang out with the waiters. What kind of statement is this in public school? Hence, parents consider putting a child in such a public school or giving it to others, where they will talk a little differently or other values. Even when it was said that respect for decisions of the Constitutional Court was also a question of whether that was a fair decision or an unfair one. It was a decision! And it was 5: 4, it was a decision and it has to be respected. But we can debate this, it was fair, it wasn't fair, every opinion says its own, but the decision has been taken, is in force and, of course, must be taken as it is. Unfortunately, if it's like Han said a while ago that that tower in Pisa is on the right, I think here, if it's right, left tilted, that's right. That's the decision. So you have to respect it. As for the ZOFVI, which is in the debate or public debate on e-democracy, we are likely to continue to talk. But I think before he comes to the National Assembly, let the coalition look into the eyes. So tell yourself. It would be very embarrassing for the biggest government party to come to the ZOFVI National Assembly, which is not supported there by that row of fighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat, followed by Mrs Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that the constitutional change process is still taking place in the National Assembly and that, on the one hand, and also on the other, the amendment of legislation has expired on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court since 1 January 2016, the Ministry has prepared and put in place a new law that respects the decision, while also establishing certain safeguards that would in some way prevent the violation of public education solely because of the increased level of funding that is simply taking place by the application of this decision of the Constitutional Court. To avoid this, the Ministry has drawn up a proposal for a law that will not only affect funding, but will in particular ensure the quality of basic education in a way that is more stringent, or some more acute, safeguards that we do not currently have. These guards will mainly go in the direction of child registration. This means that Namreč, standards in public and private schools are not the same in this respect. [[…]] In public schools, the standard is 30 students per class; in private schools, this standard is lower. If we want to be fair, equal, given that public and private schools must, of course, be financed 100 percent, it is also right that standards for enrolment of children in schools are the same, so that it would not then turn out that, of course, some schools funded by 100 percent, public schools have to enter 30 children into a class, while private schools with the same funding only 15. This also seems extremely important to me because of the entry into the register. I also find it very interesting in the light of today's debate also the proposal by the Ministry to amend the article, which will somehow require greater participation by teachers who by law ensure the implementation of the public programme, which, of course, I welcome, because, of course, we are also raising or raising the standard of the quality of the implementation of the public programme itself. Which means, of course, quality assurance. What we do not have today, if we want to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, is that, in this way, it is necessary to evaluate the implementation of the prescribed standards on a yearly basis – which, of course, will have to be the same as public and private schools, which are not today, but should be, if we are equally funding them – then of course, a safeguard mechanism must be put in place which will regularly review the implementation of these prescribed standards of schools, evaluate regularly, and if a certain school of these standards does not fulfil that it is, of course, threatened with the withdrawal from the register and, as a consequence, with the cessation of funding. I think that's very correct and very fair. I also understand the control or quality of primary education, including respect for the law of the Republic of Slovenia, at the end of this phase I have never denied it, even in the previous debate – I cannot say the same, but certainly at the same point of the agenda. It is true, however, that the Constitutional Court's decision has personally opened up to me another thought, which is not exclusively left - right ideological, what is actually today the power to perceive in the debate. In fact, the very process or understanding of the development of education in the future. In fact, the Constitutional Court’s decision in some way opens up the possibility or opens the possibility of amending legislation in the manner in which the ovine system is established. I have a personal problem with this system, and I oppose it. It is true that this question of the Voucher system, which is in some way addressed by the Constitutional Court's decision, raises two liberal assumptions across: on the one hand, we have free choice and on the other hand, we have somehow the basis of the same or the source of the same possibilities. Members of the European Union, not only Sweden, but also those members of the European Union who have a system similar to that of the Voucher, are actually criticising it and preparing to amend legislation that will gradually phase out this voucher system. This is simply because the analysis showed that the voucher system contributed to the segregation of children in schools. Of course, I object to this always because, as a liberal person, I will always be inclined, above all, to the same basic starting points that an individual must have from birth forward, because it seems to me that only when these possibilities are objectively realized, but only then can we talk about some freedom of an individual or the free choice of an individual. One more question actually opened up to me in today's debate, and that is the very importance of the social system, in fact how I understand liberalisation as a liberal person. This is, however, that I myself think that the school system must simply establish an individual who can be effectively and realistically critical of all the levels of life they surround and that he will actually be free of thought. As a liberal man, I will always look forward to it, and I will always look forward to it. Therefore, I think it is a more important question, such as today's closing around this gap of 15%, whether or not, as we have heard from the debate that some people are glorifying capital and, on the other hand, some are glorifying some socialist manifesto, I think it is a much more important question whether we are simply as a society capable of creating an educational environment where an individual will be able to ask a question and that in the dark he will run into a wall of different interest groups. This seems to me to be an essential issue when we talk about the liberalisation of school space and about some liberal, free-thinking view of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Kotnik for her, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I congratulate the Minister for her success in convincing the Government with the initiative to join the Republic of Slovenia in Cerno. I can't wait to discuss this at the PSC, that'll be May 11th. I won't be home then, but there's only one step forward. I agree with my colleague Matjaz Han – now I do not see him in the hall – who says let us make a decision already and the end of the bargaining is over. Of course, we spend more than a year doing our homework, speaking of the school entrusted to us by the Constitutional Court. We don't have to make a deal for one year or you can't make a deal in the coalition. It is high time to solve this issue; and look, I don't know why Slovenian, especially left policy, has to somehow kill a private initiative – everywhere, in entrepreneurship, in education, in health, everywhere. Why kill a private initiative? We've got fantastic privates! After seeing that they do not have to find a friendly environment at home, they say: Goodbye, Slovenia. Someone wrote down, doing so — that is, killing a private initiative — is a concentration of madness. More than once, we, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, have warned that the country is seriously delaying the deadline for the regulation of 100 % of the financing of the private primary school public programme and is acting again ignorantly, both to this issue and to the Constitutional Court, which imposed that deadline. See, I am not satisfied that some have gone in the opposite direction now; rather than taking into account the task given to us by the Constitutional Court, the Law on Financing Education and Education has been said. Now, with the change of constitution to the Constitutional Court, we're going to fix you. This is not fair, it is not fair – and yes, somehow after this debate, I am convinced that the biggest coalition party will support the law that will sanction the constitutional decision. But you know, we do not trust ourselves so much that I would now also hope to assert and predict that this proposal for a constitution that we have on the Constitutional Commission will be lifted. Here we go, fellows and colleagues, for a very simple principle. Who are you going to pay more to teach your child a count of 7: Either a state school or a school we're going to set up, say, me and my colleague Matjaž? Who are you gonna pay more to? Yeah, you'll tell me where the better quality will be. Our primary education, says the OECD, is pretty good, but it's wasteful. We do have a lot of money, do we? We spend one billion too much of it as we produce it. Look, it's simple, I don't know how to say this, I don't understand why some of you just don't understand that that would allow those privates – because there aren't a lot of fools like you, you know, who would build primary schools, which would be cheaper for a country and parents or children would have a wider offer. Why does the state have to invest in walls? Why? But something's true. I recently adopted here in the National Assembly of Gifted Students of a primary school, with whom the principal was with them, and I told the students that we are also adopting legislation in this house concerning primary school. The principal said, yes, because I know your position, you're so much more for private schools, but you know, there's higher wages because parents have to pay more. This is crazy! I told him, Principal, that's crazy. Do not poison other colleagues and co-chairs with this. Who, however, counts the salary for those who implement the public programme? However, if some money had to be paid for a superstandard — I paid for it myself because I had two children in private school. Yeah, look, we don't just have to be an egalitarian society like we are egalitarian in poverty, like Gini's coefficient does. We're egalitarian in poverty. But, of course, there's a lot of ideological demagogies here. By saying that a public school is available to parents for their children and that the choice of a private school should be paid in full, it is narrow and impeccable that I will not say any other demagogic. For parents of the educational system, colleagues and colleagues, are already paying, paying through very high taxes. An additional payment for a private school is merely a doubling of payment, which cannot be accepted in a country where equality is at the top of a scale of values. After all, in all schools, both public and private, our Slovenian children and not Martians are educated. And children – these are the flowers of our society, our biggest asset. Which parent will say yes, and for the child I will not give everything – no, I will give everything for the child! Also, yes, if necessary, I pay extra education and so on and above standard. Elitism is a phenomenon that cannot be avoided, whether it is a postmodern, ancient, medieval, socialist or capitalist society. The value of the West is that people are born equal, but by no means all people are the same, even though some systems are still trying to cut down anyone who has fallen from the average; and I repeat, as I have done many times, we are equal! But elitism in education is not created by logic in a public-private way, but according to the reputations acquired by the evident quality of the school process. Western practice shows that both private and public educational institutions are successful. Of course I'll support this law. Like you said, he's probably not getting any support today. I expect the government to come as soon as possible with a law that will be a domestic task imposed on us by the Constitutional Court. And I agree with my colleague Matjaž – let's get this off the table as soon as possible! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u123	Replica, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I thought that Mr Joseph Horvath, whom I of course appreciate, understood me correctly; but when he had explained it for so long, I thought we were almost the same wavelength. You said one thing — and I agree with you — the country has little money. Absolutely! We have to be very concerned about where we're going to put this budget money. And if we have a little bit of it, why should we give it to privates, we keep it in the public system. And the other thing, you said very honestly, Jože, is that you went to high school with your kids and you paid for it because you had the feeling that it was a better school. And you give everything for the kids. I absolutely agree, but some can't, some aren't Matjaz Han and Joseph Horvat, they can't. And we need to make it possible for all of them to come to school and have equal conditions for all of them. Officials, private schools should pay if people want to have children in private schools. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, but look, it's the stupidest thing to say that we're up against private schools. That's not true! Eighty-five percent of this country has already funded this public programme, but it does not have the same standard as in public primary schools. You know that. And where the concession is, and the Waldorf School has it, it's funded 100%. So sometimes it's good to have about the same thought from the beginning to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u125	Mrs. Irena Kotnik has the floor. Prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u126	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! I agree with my colleague Horvato, who said that this debate on this public and private education has been going on for a year, but I think that the changes we are making in private education must be considered. This is also illustrated by the experience of other countries, and I believe that the solution, which amounts only to the level of funding between public and private education, is not sufficient. The fundamental law in this area should therefore be supplemented by additional safeguards. There's one thing I'm worried about here. Not only is this social situation that we are in not only Slovenia, but also elsewhere in the world, but I am a little bit involved in how public and private education in European countries, how they have these things arranged, namely private education in the Member States, is mostly regulated by law in the EU and the right to establish private schools is explicitly enshrined in the Constitution, which guarantees the choice and right to freedom of education. At the same time, most countries have sectoral laws and these sectoral laws regulate the establishment of private schools, regulate duties, status and method of financing. And one more thing, where I can also see that one of the guards is in the education system. In cases where the school authorities approve private schools and issue public certificates, the school authorities shall require as much harmonisation as possible of the curriculum of public and private schools. This also ensures the quality of education. In Slovenia, however, these proposed changes relate only to funding but do not resolve the status of private schools. There are also open questions as to how the programmes are being adopted. Questions remain about the implementation of the programmes. The definition of quality in the implementation of the programmes shall then provide for staffing and material conditions, entry into the register, all of which shall be thoroughly reviewed, thoroughly examined and not simply decided to amend Article 86. Then I went even deeper into the case of Sweden, how this education system works in Sweden, and I gave an even more extreme example of Finland. In Finland, children mostly attend private schools, and only 3% of children attend private schools — mostly in public schools — only 3% of children attend private schools. This is the case with the Finnish school system, which is known as the most effective and fair. If we look at another example of Swedish education on the other hand, Swedish education shows almost all signs of marketing. The aims of education in Sweden are to ensure that schools are well enough to implement, produce and achieve education. As a result, the role of director from teacher to manager has changed. On behalf of quality assurance, different control techniques have been introduced, such as standards, evaluation, audits, performance criteria and indicators. The virtual free-school market has become increasingly important for the Swedish business sector and so Swedish high school directors are mostly responsible for promoting, which means that concepts such as business, profit and sale of the product to children and parents are at the forefront. Teachers from autonomous experts have become service-oriented workers, leading to the grading of professional competences. Sweden does not apply for teacher qualifications in private schools. In doing so, according to survey 8 of the 10 Swedes, they gave a negative opinion against earnings in the state welfare sector. So I think that taking a little time to discuss this is crucial to finding some middle way, some way to help our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u127	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Ludmila Novak and Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. There was much to be said, but above all, it seems to me that it is very important that we go to the starting point somehow. Indeed, it seems to me that some debates or statements are deliberately misleading and that we all know exactly what we are talking about. It is constantly repeated: the state cannot finance private schools. Private schools. We keep talking about private or private schools. We are not talking about, we are talking about a programme; a programme that is public and regulated by law or by regulations that affect it. Allow me to remind you of one thing, because today there is also a lot of talk about how important the criteria are to know exactly what is really going on in individual schools and what money is about. In fact, primary school, for example, to give Aloysija Šustjar primary school, because today, I think, above all, the problem is that we are talking about primary schools of the Aloysija Šustjar type. For example, we're not going to talk about Waldorf School. Why not? Because it's funded 100%, it's a private school. And no one bothers that children are discriminated against, for example, in other private schools just because they were in force at the time, bohemian, some other marriage. But the constitution is clear. So let's let that school continue to be 100 percent funded, let's also let it continue to collect tuition, because it's tuition and, of course, it's also within a range, but no one bothers about it, and it's right not. I support it. I support Waldorf School. Why? Because it brings alternative educational concepts into the space and this is, excuse me, the main point of private schools: alternative educational concepts. There are many, and in Slovenia we know few, because we somehow do not allow these initiatives. Now, as to what the criteria should be and what things here are not as they should be. Allow me to read literally: "A private school must meet the legal conditions, that is to say that it implements a programme for all the years, that the tuition is limited, that the teacher fulfils the same conditions as teachers in public schools and that their salaries are tied to the salaries of teachers in the public sector. In addition, the General Education Council of the Ministry of Education must assess that its educational programme achieves all the rules applicable to programmes." So, equivalent educational standards. That's not what I wrote. That's what Dr. Slavko Gaber wrote. Well, Aloysy Schüster's elementary school is already doing all this. I don't know how much you know about this school, but programs are the same as basics in public schools. They have precise hours of mathematics, precise hours of Slovenian mother tongue, precise hours, I don't know, nature and so on. They do have other items — but we are not talking about financing them! We're not talking about funding these! And earlier it was said, all parents just can't put a child in a school like this. It's true, not in Waldorf. Not in any other, but because this initiative was not in every congregation, it cannot be because it is too expensive. But it is not too expensive for the state, because the state pays for every student as much as it has to pay, because so-called private schools with a private initiative, there will be no fewer pupils and no more students. Everyone gets paid the same way. Earlier, the fear that it would be so-called was also raised that is often heard more in the United Left, by the fact that when privacy comes to school, it is necessary to seriously protect the public network of education because it threatens to fall, let me remind him of the so-called 87th Article of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. [[…]] This article already speaks to the protection of the public network in its title and states clearly: irrespective of the 86th article already in force, this article, which is currently financed by 85 %, does not belong to a private school where the only primary school in the private primary school is at risk of being enrolled in a private music school or the only public school in the school environment. Well, there's no fear. But it can be another fear, quality, quality, alternative. But why? Why do we not allow as many alternatives and educational concepts as possible to enter the country? And let's stop blurring, we have completely private schools in Slovenia. Parents finance them 100 percent. I hope you know that. It's even a school that doesn't have a program and these kids have to do special exams. Of course, these schools can rarely be afforded, especially by children of foreigners who work and live here. This is the kind of school I've seen, interesting. I'd be very happy to have at least a little bit of her transferred to some public school, but no. Sometimes I'm afraid that public education, you know, remains on some old, stale ground that is no longer close to modern society, progress and different perspectives. Why for some alternative kindergartens parents are literally waiting, even before children are born, for different parents of different faiths – some consider themselves atheists that there will be no mistake. But they wait in line because they want a different program, a different way of education and education. The programs are interesting. I don't mean it. I'm not surprised by Mr. Han's point of view. Indeed, it is behind its view that there is sufficient funding for it to exist. I say that this is discrimination, which has been so much talk, and this is the worst form, because it is children who cannot defend themselves. However, I do not understand some of the discussions of the largest coalition party. For yesterday, the Prime Minister of the Government said among other things: "As a lawyer and as President of the Government, I am unhappy because we are late for the implementation of a constitutional decision. I'm trying to make it happen as soon as possible." So support the law! Will you follow your Prime Minister, or does he not know what his Members in this National Assembly think and intend to do? But that's the problem. I also took a look at the draft quickly, which provides a solution to the so-called Article 86 – the conditions for funding. However, it would stop at the so-called Article 6, which refers to Article 88, but is added to Article 88: Private schools referred to in Article 86(2) must not charge fees. What does that mean? Because if we look at the program, you probably won't stop this from making schools rich. You know, because we already have some kind of tuition in elementary school today, just so you know. It is said to contribute to material – yes, for photocopying, I do not know, tasks, tests and so on. What this means, I would also like an explanation, because if this means that it will now be impossible, these so-called programs that introduce some alternative concepts, such as Zora, Montessori, which actually has some things other than the so-called classic educational concept that is in Slovenia, will probably have to keep some things. Because, look at Waldorf's school today is 100 percent funded, but it's collecting tuition. Yeah, it's on sale, range from, I don't know, 60 to, I don't know, 100 euros and so on. Depending on how much the parents can do, they are still likely to finance the individual programs that this school offers, or various activities, and so on. Well, if our kids are going on a trip, then we get a contribution on the ticket for a so-called field trip, then the trip is mandatory. We know that, but we don't want to hear it. When we talk about so-called another school, there are 5 of them in Slovenia, which are now an incredible problem. Earlier it was said, let's say bob beans already and see what's going on with the change in the constitution proposed by the SD. Yeah, no! It's open, you're discussing, and here you already have a decision of the Constitutional Court. It's funny to me that someone is now dealing with where the tower hangs: either to the right or to the left? The Constitutional Court has ruled, but the Constitutional Court will still respect! But we can constantly look for some reasons why we should wait. After all, at the final stage, we can make a change to the Constitution immediately and say yes, but now we have this constitutional change, we suggest, let's wait for enforcement. This is a kind of play for me, because it is known exactly whether any thing in this national assembly can go through or not; and you know that too! But that's how you try to stall. But there's no reason to stall. There's no reason to. Don't be afraid of these schools. Just remember, for example, what you are about in the SD — your former president, who happily sent his children abroad for education. Why only if everything here is so quality and we have the conditions and we have all the opportunities for the education we want? They are different desires of parents; some want more emphasis in one area, some on the other. And it's true, it doesn't have to be for everyone, it is. However, if we allow one more private school in each primary school, I don't know, the initiatives I think are not, given that they have to take care of maintenance themselves, that they have to take care of other things that are necessary for the functioning of the primary school, then even further or kindergarten. It's not working. I had to write mine because we moved. That's the way it is. That's the way it is. But that doesn't mean I don't allow anyone else to be there. Thank God I have a choice! In short, I do not know now whether the ministry with this proposal, which is now on this e-portal, is actually serious about whether it is now just to say, because we are working on it, but this proposal does not differ significantly from what we are proposing. You have already opened the ZOFVI, and we now have one proposal in the procedure with other content. So if it were true will, we would support our proposal and, if necessary, complement it if we could see that there is anything else missing. But this is not the case right now, because all of these schools are implementing the program, because if they didn't, then these kids wouldn't be able to go to high school, because things wouldn't be recognised because they wouldn't have enough, I don't know, individual subjects, individual hours on certain subjects, and they have them. More! They have other things. And then the same goes for high school.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u129	Replica, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you. First, with regard to the Constitutional Court. Let's leave now where he's inclined I've already apologized, then maybe in effect I commented in such an unworthy way, I agree. [[…]] It is necessary to respect the Constitutional Court, and this does not mean that we, as a legislative body, should not change the Constitution, because it seems strange to me that the Constitutional Court, which is over us, decides this way once again, does not respect its decision in any way. So I hope that we still have shared authority in this country and that it is the job of the legislator to change that too. That's one thing. Of course, if he has a majority for this – I agree. And second. As far as this 87th Article is concerned. This was written in ZOFVI since 1996, and you, when you had the power, the SDS, eventually threw it out in the first Janšev government in some way because you had this democratic majority. This was said in this, "in spite of article 86 of this Act, private schools do not belong to public funds if the only public primary school is threatened by admission to private school." I mean, you gave smoke to private schools at the time, because you had most of it. When Igor Lukšič was Minister, we brought this matter back because we have some values that we have been defending for some time now, and you have yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u131	So let's say, the replica always goes in debate time, so no one loses in the whole thing. If it's a unclear matter. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare for Mr Mitja Horvat and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u132	Your Honor! But first, I'm going to apologize to my colleague Matjaž for being deceived by an e-mail that I was rude because I didn't let you talk at Studio City. And I apologize to you. I didn't mean to be rude, but I couldn't listen to you actually say some things that didn't. You've told me before how the Constitutional Court decides differently. Of course, it’s different when it comes to deciding things! And, as far as I know, in 2001 it was first decided on confessional education in private and public schools, but within it it talked about funding, it is only right that the state finances private schools, but not 100 %. In 2015, the Constitutional Court said that the State of the primary school programme, which is compulsory, must finance 100 %, but did not say that it must also finance investments in buildings, maintenance, investment maintenance and so on. So it was two different things. Next, we are talking about 0.4% of the funding that this country invests in primary education. 0.4 percent! And these five primary schools, private schools, will destroy public education. That's ridiculous! And then there's talk of branch schools. Why should branch schools be closed? I am against this because I know that a school is a branch for that place because cultural events are happening there and so on — because of poor demographics, because we do not do enough for family policy and for improving demographic imagery. We also do little to keep people in rural areas, where these branch primary schools are principally located. I have read something else that this Law on the organisation and financing of education and education allows the establishment of primary schools only to institutions which, if funded by public funds, do not generate profits by means of educational activities. To me, this math, I have to say, it's really not clear. How private schools with a public programme, which receive an 85% funded programme, can generate profits, while public schools have a 100 percent programme, and they also get for buildings. That's what these schools say make the biggest profit. I am still convinced that the country benefits from this. Of course, we're talking about five schools now. But when there are 500 or so many of them that will really threaten these schools, I am also in favour of redefining and studying the matter again. One more thing, mate Matjaž. In our private life, we are well tolerated, but politically we are on different shores. You've quoted me a few times before, and I said terrible things when I asked the Minister questions. I have obtained a magnetogram and read: "Of course we must be careful in the future that no one will have such requirements for compulsory primary education contrary to our culture, ethics, principles and so on." So you're in favour of financing something that runs counter to our culture and ethics. What did I have in mind? I've heard about the case of a school in Austria, a school, and I'm not going to say one that obviously didn't follow certain principles and that's why the Austrians closed it. That's what I meant, and I don't think I said anything so awful when I said it shouldn't be against our culture, ethics, principles and so on. But if someone wanted to teach another culture, well, here would be a reminder, say, a school believer. You probably don't support it, but it's not against our culture, even tradition has been and so on. But if you support that, then I don't know what your principles are.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u133	[[adverts from benches]] Please, please, please. Previously, in the replica, the only thing that was recognized as a possible replica was the walls. Re-enactment for re-entry. Please! Peace. Are you done? Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and, as colleague Dobovšek says, all of you who accompany us in today's interesting debate! I'm lucky that a few of our colleagues have given up time, so I'll be a little longer, and just in case my colleague Han can replicate something, I'll have enough time to give myself a replica if I have to. So many introductorys. First, let us discuss why we are being gathered today and what we are dealing with today because there was little or no talk about it. We have before us the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which states: a private primary school implementing the programmes referred to in the first subparagraph of this Article is provided for the implementation of the programme with 100% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme. You are referring to the second paragraph of Article 86, not only the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86. I must therefore introductoryly say that, of course, I cannot accept this proposal for this reason. Why not? This is because, in Article 86, which would be amended in this way, we are also talking about a private school implementing the programmes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article: " 85% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme are provided for the implementation of the programme. Private schools do not have funds for investment, investment maintenance and equipment". In the first paragraph, we have a whole range of schools that you mentioned in your discussions today, both the SDS Members and NSI Members. It is private schools that carry out public primary education programmes, basic music education, secondary and vocational education, or high school, and they have the resources of the state budget or the local community budget if they meet the following conditions – and I will not read them. Come in. Which means, of course, that there is a risk of financing other private schools, which we did not object to in principle in our party, but we have said that there is also a need to ensure the security or secure future of the public network, which is specifically defined in the same law in Article 87 and in one particular part – I am replicating, by the way, the colleague Mrs Novakovo. Of course, if someone makes a profit and is financed as a private school that runs programs, then this funding has to stop, so I hope and believe that the ministry is watching over it. Since we all believe that it is not a profit, of course I will stop at this point, as far as profit is concerned, because I do not believe that anyone can carry out primary education with profit. Earlier, there had been little talk about school fees when parents were paying contributions, and I was a father myself, and of course I put it through. And what he's talking about – and thus I'm practically going to the Constitutional Court's decision – will come in handy. Indeed, the Constitutional Court also speaks of free primary education. Although I believe in fairy tales, miracles and other things, but that we have free education in the Republic of Slovenia, I do not believe and I have convinced myself that this is not the case and that all parents know it. However, we are working as hard as we can because we live in a social state to allow, of course, those who are materially unable to come together, to pay more or to obtain some kind of budget, sponsorship, donor and so on, to enable those children whose parents have the right and obligation to educate their children simply cannot do so. I'm just replicating a little bit of the ideas I heard last night. I'm afraid you're going to run out of people in the Slovenian Democratic Party. You can't have those that belong in more of the same categories, you can't stick together, because then really terrible numbers come along. Sometimes it will have to be done because people can be in these 297 thousand below the poverty threshold, of course they can be in different categories. So it may be that those who accompany us need to be warned that there will be no too much deception and manipulation of numbers – which, as you know, I like to do. So, what did the Constitutional Court actually decide? If we just look at 29th and 30th, after we look at the decision. In fact, according to point 1, the Constitutional Court has decided that the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the Law on the organisation and financing of work relating to public education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution. We're talking about schools today, and I hope you'll stop because we're not talking about it today. You are talking about the fact that the Constitutional Court has decided something, and that is not true, because the Constitutional Court has decided only in the part concerning public programmes, nor in the implementation of public programmes. For you, of course, this is the same thing. I have these nuances that I want to point out. Indeed, among the reasons stated by the Constitutional Court, the legislator has not shown that intervention into free primary education is a right to free primary education, today we are talking about other topics, not what the Constitutional Court has used as reasons for its decision based on a constitutionally permissible objective – the first condition has not been met. So, free primary school education. I am not blind, in the Republic of Slovenia there is no such thing for me. Since when an action is found to be constitutionally inadmissible already on the basis of an assessment of the so-called legitimacy test, Article 15, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court was therefore not required to assess whether an action is necessary, proportionate, appropriate in a narrow sense — Article 2 of the Constitution. In view of this, the first paragraph of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI in the part relating to compulsory public education programmes is inconsistent with the second paragraph of Article 57. Since the Constitutional Court has annulled the provision — carefully — for the reasons mentioned above, it has not ruled out any other alleged anti-constitutionality. In the following, 30th paragraph, the fact that the Constitutional Court had annulled writes slightly differently, so that I do not know at the end; I know what it says and therefore read it: "Because, by repealing the contested legal provision which provides a legal basis for 85 % of the public funding of public education programmes, there would be an even greater interference with the constitutional right to attend the compulsory public education programme free of charge, the Constitutional Court decided to issue a finding decision." So, he found out, didn't cancel. As far as I am concerned, this provision could also be repealed, but, as has already been said, it is very dangerous, because we have other programmes funded from public funds that would also be harmful, and we have repeatedly warned in the Modern Centre Party that private education is for us – and now, of course, I will anger my colleague Han, and that is why I expected his replica – we have repeatedly claimed and have written in our programme that private schools are enriching our school space. We never claimed anything else. Therefore, it is clear to us that we are against private schools, that we do not see anything new added to them, that it is not a quality, is an evil instigation, because we have never claimed it. As you have rightly found and presented in the beginning, our President, Prof. Dr. Miro Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, visited private schools and, of course, also expressed views which you have nicely linked and presented at this reading. Which means what I have said several times: we really need to find the right solutions in this area. And, of course, the same purpose as you want to achieve today by writing down instead of 85% 100%, I can say, very quickly and in consideration, that the same purpose would be achieved by the Constitutional Court even if it said that the provision on 85% funding for the implementation of public education programmes of the primary school is repealed or abolished because it is the same purpose. If you write 100% or write nothing, it is clear that other provisions of the law make it very clear that public programmes are financed by public funds. What is the height, all of this depends on what rules we have and, of course, of course, we conclude a financing contract. Public funding shall cease at a time when a private school does not adhere to the rules and conditions clearly laid down in the implementation of public primary schooling. Perhaps by the edge, since I still have some time left — why not Waldorf School? Since they have a concession and because we have a valid concession contract that has remained in force, that is why there are differences between them. But it is private, of course, and it is financed, as if other schools were financed equally. There are other reasons, of course. I don't know, and of course you'll teach me because you've been in the National Assembly for a long time, and I haven't had any time or special interest to follow the debates as to why there are such provisions in the law. However, there are still some things that need to be cleaned and, of course, we need to be balanced in the light of the new conditions in which we live, due to social changes, and I will also be able to understand the difference and change in the decision of the Constitutional Court. What I have to say in this decision is that I do not fully agree with it, but it is not mine to go in this way, because I do not agree with what the Constitutional Court has stated or, as it has decided, to amend the Constitution. I made that very clear, but I also said that I believe that even with regard to the constitution, we can find a dictatorship for which we can achieve our purpose. Of course, in the constitution we write that education in primary schools, which is compulsory, is financed by public funds, we all know that, it does not have to be written in particular. It is clear that in public schools it is financed by public funds. This, of course, is self-inflicted. But we don't know what to do with others and how to do it, and why to the surprise and question that you asked, why, if the Ministry is already preparing the law, if it was already preparing certain changes, why it hasn't gone any further and why it hasn't changed and proposed changes to all the open issues. We have heard, said, it is partly dependent on whether in due course we will also be able to change the constitution if we come up with a common text, a consensus where we can balance public and private. Once again, I stress that we have made our position clear: we do not have to agree to such general provisions as to finance public education or public programmes to anyone who has 5 minutes to set up a school. You probably wouldn't like it any more. And, of course, to the data on how we finance small percentages today, and in particular how little difference in budget resources would mean, if we increase from 85 % to 100 % of private school funding, which is currently in the public education of the primary school programmes, it is certainly too narrow to look at this moment. The policy issue is always that it foresees what will happen in the future and that we have in the laws solutions that are variable for all. At the beginning and today, once again, let me stress, we want cooperation and, of course, after a constructive, reasoned debate, we want to make decisions that will be good for everyone in the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to invite you to do this again, and I apologize for being a little longer, but, as I said, my colleagues have given me a little more time to bow down. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u135	The replica of Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u136	I was not named by name, but my debate was mentioned and I also think that – yes. Yes, the Waldorf School was established in 1992, and it had not yet worked or there was a certain law, but that does not mean that if we do not then allow such discrimination to occur today. For that is what you have said, and I hope that you are in our debates, because otherwise you have not listened to us well, you have heard that we are talking about a public programme. Just about the public program. And if it's being implemented by the Waldorf School, and if it's being implemented by the school, I don't know, the Shausthar School, then it's only right that these schools are paid the same. There's one more thing I'd like to say more plasticly. Why does the country cost more than or less than a child who is 100 meters away from school for a child who attends the primary school of Aloysia Schuštár? Why? Why does a country give less to one child than to another? And you don't think that's a problem? This is discrimination and this is discrimination against children. And it's a big one!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u137	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. The area of education is certainly one of those areas which does not provide users with performance or use in the manner set out in the Constitution. However, some representatives of political groups are talking about freedom of choice, equality and so on, on the other hand, you are doing the opposite. The Constitutional Court took a decision on the basis of an initiative and corrected this error, which was incorporated into the Education and Education Financing Act. Why the Constitutional Court has now ruled differently than it once did is probably an irrelevant question. We Members probably don't have to ask ourselves that question, because we are the ones who are correcting our decisions even in the same term in the same law a number of times, because it is determined that something or something is not accurately written or is not sufficiently resolved and so on. The Constitutional Court is probably also an institution that can further explain its decision whether it pleases or does not like it, because no decision of any institution, not the Government, not the National Assembly and not the Constitutional Court is likely to last forever and forever. It is therefore necessary to judge, decide and amend the matter if necessary. In fact, I was disturbed by the fact that, as soon as the Constitutional Court’s decision was taken, we received a proposal to amend the Constitution a few days after that, not a proposal to enforce the Constitutional Court’s decision and to amend the law, but something that would detract from the Constitutional Court’s decision and create a new basis on which the Constitutional Court should decide. For this reason, we are also faced with this demeaning attitude towards the Constitutional Court, both by some who disagree with their decisions, and worse still, by the Government, who has consciously decided that this marginally simple amendment of the Law on Financing Education and Education prepares and makes a solution, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. If this represents some difficult matter for the government with the Ministry, which has a few dozen officials and lawyers to prepare such a solution to fix it, then something with this department and the minister who runs it is very wrong. This is a problem that is easy to solve for every average educated person in this country. The problem is even worse because the minister consciously decided not to do it in time. It was also, if I am not mistaken, her statement – and it was not made in time. We have been trying to help the government to make sure that whatever happens on this, that this will be resolved, and it has been vehemently rejected. Members of the coalition and the government, if you read your opinions on these proposals, you will see that you do not respect the fundamental commitments, do not respect the institutions of the rule of law. Mr Cerar said in his pre-election and permissive performances before and in the National Assembly that this is the basis, this is the paradigm of his work: respect for the institutions of the rule of law and the rule of law. As President of the Government, this is not guaranteed, but the fact that this decision is being implemented is not the only case, which is even worse. And respect for laws and the Constitution is a very convenient interpretation; when it comes to it, there are one constitutional rules and one legal rule and sanctions, and when it comes to another, this interpretation is extremely cruel, even to the withdrawal of the mandate has led to such conduct. They're not vats in this country for all the same. I think it is true what my colleague Horvat said; private schools or private offerings also in the area where we were used to being exclusive about having a public system and a public sector are enriching this. This has proved to be true in many cases. A private school, which is no better than a public school, cannot exist, nor can a private doctor, who is no better than a public one, exist. That's a fundamental problem. Not where you have to pay for it. There is no Slovenian who will pay for a service that will be worse, and on the other hand, he gets something that is so-called free. If we do not have these elements built in, that we also have a private offer, and there is no need for any serious approach and development, there is no condition for that. Slovenian citizens, like nationals of other countries, are so smart that they will not pay for anything or sign a child where he will receive a worse service than he has at that moment. We can all be sure of that. Just so that he goes, I don't know, yours, mine, or any child in a school where the founder is not a public institution, let's say he's not a congregation, he probably won't do it if he gets an equivalent or even better service in this public or community network. So many citizens are not to be underestimated because they know that they want what is good, better and best for their children. That's right. The problem is that someone has to confirm this public programme. Probably someone who sets up a private school called a private school doesn't invent a schedule, a number of hours, and so on. I'm sure someone will confirm that. And if the censor and the one who counts is the public institution that does this, then it is likely that we must respect this public programme as it has been confirmed. If this program is approved as it is for public school, then there is no problem that it is not paid the same. However you turn, Mr. Han, the pay of teachers in schools is normal. It does not matter whether a teacher receives a salary through a public institution and what he earns for the hours he performs, or through a private school, through a private institution for the same public service. He's both going in his private pocket. The fundamental problem or the fundamental use of money in schools is the salaries of teachers. Is that right? So, private pockets. Let someone explain to me why, say, a teacher gets 100 percent if he's in public school, and only 85 percent pay if he's in private school, and he's doing the same prescribed program. What's the problem? Why should this, for example, have this effect? Can anyone explain? Either way, the one who goes to establish a private school is handicapped, because the whole material part will have to be provided by himself through tax resources provided to the budget or by countries and local communities., Here is exclusively all excluded, all investments, all equipment is excluded. We only talk about teaching aids and salaries. We don't talk about anything else. Investment, depreciation, adaptation and so on is the thing that will set up such an institution. Under no circumstances does the State have a – or municipality – obligation to an investor in a private school. Euros of duty! She doesn't have to! She can if she's smart, she'll give, but there's no obligation. According to me or what I am following these discussions, it seems to me that this is on the one hand to maintain a system that allows manipulation in certain areas, as we have now witnessed in this high school work. On the other hand, this battle means that schools are paid worse, especially the battle for the union. Battle for the Swiss. I guess we all know this is about two fields. One is that it can be used through abuse and thus continue to give certain content and another battle for union organization. That's probably what we agree on. As long as we have public schools, we will also have a SWIZ, a strong SWIZ, more public schools, more people in the SWIZ. The moment we move this matter in some way to a more private field, probably fewer teachers will be involved in union activity. Probably. I suppose that, and in a way that is true, it also shows that teachers receive various amounts for the anniversary prizes. Those who are in the SWITZ receive 20% more jubilee awards, say at 10, 20, 30 years of work done, than those who are not in the union. And that's what the state pays for. You know this case. If that were not the case, then people who receive a refund or a jubilee prize from budgetary resources would receive the same reward, whether they are in the union or not, because they pay this budget over it. If SVIZ wanted to stimulate its employees, it should give from its funds the SVIZ this allowance, not the budget. And nothing bothers us having, say, two kinds of teachers who get, say, a jubilee award different. For 30 years, they get one 100 % and they get paid by the state and the other 80 % by the state. That's right. So those who are unionised get a higher allowance and pay the state budget. If it were correct, if we had the right arrangement, those 20% of the allowances would have been paid to those in the union by the Swiss from their budget, which would normally be expected. It's not like that, and it doesn't bother anybody! Is that a yes? To pay all the same taxes and contributions for the Jubilee Prize, some get 20% higher than others just because they are members of a fair, a voluntary organisation – even that is not compulsory but voluntary. I think that's an incorrect solution. Earlier, a colleague of Jelka Godec asked about this novel, which circulates through e-democracy, and Article 9. What the secretary explained doesn't work. For Article 9 states, "the provisions of this law shall not apply to schools established before its entry into force". It doesn't say anything in any of the paragraphs, in any article, but it says "the provisions of this law". That's what they say. It's a general solution. And what has been explained about this question is an incorrect explanation. Don't stand! Otherwise, it would have been stated that the provisions of this law apply to Article 17, paragraph 1, shall not apply to this and this paragraph of this Article and shall read "this law". And they are exclusively excluded from this solution to that school that was set up before this law was enacted. It's clearly written. So, even now that this constitutional decision is being tried to be regulated, it is not properly regulated, but regulated. It is said that a law will be adopted where something is supposed to be done, but not as it was written in the Constitutional Decision, but slightly different and more. We're going to get another trial before the Constitutional Court, probably because we're going to be dealing again for three or x years with a case that has a weight in the school system, there, I don't know, on a third or fourth decimal. If a provision is implemented, as the Constitutional Court has written, it is 200, 300,000 euros per year. That's why you're preparing a constitutional change, which is funny. But you have not made any changes, for example, that would prevent those who actually serve with a public system that, I don't know, runs out of money for overpayments of various devices, which are also exclusive suppliers in schools that are exclusive suppliers in health care that have taken money from banks and so on. After that, no exclusive constitutional solution and no legal arrangements. You also rejected what we suggested there. That's the problem. However, there are various values, carriers and such non-star documents that just make people tired of themselves to deal with themselves and capital things are passing away. Look, this is an area that you've devoted yourself to, instead of setting up a matter to put it on the agenda, so that everyone can be satisfied, you're primarily dealing with how to play the Constitutional Court's decision. And this is your client, Mr. Han. and it is also a government approach, which is almost exactly the same. And of this wealth, which Mr Horvath spoke of before, there is neither the spirit nor the hearing. If the marriage falls, the enrichment of private schools will also fall because of these problems and problems. No reason, no serious justification, and so on. And you are still maintaining an arrangement that will be like the tower in Pisa — side - to - side. I suggest that you support this proposal, that we regulate what is envisaged in this proposal, the norms, standards, the other content, the appointment of directors, the boards of institutions, and so on, you will regulate in any other way and sometimes later. And by the way, even where the congregations are the chief financier, they have absolutely no word for appointments. This would be arranged so that those who are the main financier could decide who will carry it out. There's no way. Normatives and standards are then adopted that only have consequences for the one who is the founder, without having the opportunity to influence anything anywhere, whether it be school standards, standards in kindergartens, libraries, anywhere. I guess we know these things well enough to know that they actually do. I propose that this matter be supported, as proposed, and that if you consider it necessary, it be supplemented, and the Government proposal will be when it is. It is on e-democracy, then we will get a solution that will probably not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, that is, because it is now being submitted, it is already visible that it goes as far away as in the Scriptures, beyond that and so on. In short, if you do not accept this, nothing good and the President of the Constitutional Court will be able to repeat his press conference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u139	Replica, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u140	First of all, Jože, I'm going to touch you because we've been working together for 10 years and friends. First of all, it's the union's S.H.I.E.L.D. I have my opinion, too, but this is where you talk about this, contracts and so on. Do you know who negotiated this when it was labour market reform? Andrej Vizjak. He gave this opportunity that when a contract is signed, then they get these pluses. [[advertising from the hall]] Just so we know what we're dealing with. I may not agree with that either today. That's one thing. Now around the privates. You know, Jože, when a privateer goes on some initiative, it's nice to sit at home a little bit, but he starts putting numbers up a little bit, and he figures out whether it pays off, or doesn't pay off, or he's waiting for the state. That's why we came here where we came from because we're waiting for this country all the time. And one more thing. Let's be honest, but I don't want to say it, but I have to say it. In this school and in the setting up of schools, do you know who has the greatest interest? Not private, for if they were real private, they would have 300 of them today — religious communities. Religious communities have the greatest interest! Now that we've made 100% funding, we're going to blur the public-private line. Then these religious communities can start putting their religion into schools. Now, Ludmili, if this is a Christian school, it's okay if it's a Muslim school — stop, not there! Therefore, we must be very careful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u141	The Minister for Education, Science and Sport has the floor. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you very much, President. Just to clarify again and that it also goes into the record in the magnetogram, as I explained earlier about Article 9. The first sentence of this Article refers to the second paragraph of Article 17, or the second article of the proposed amendment. I'm sure you can take my word for it, because there's nothing we can do back there that wasn't predictable at the time, but of course we can move on. And this is also an interpretation if we look at the provision of Article 17 or the proposed second in the interpretation itself, i.e. the content explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u143	Replica, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u144	You know, what you said would hold if we talked about the back-up bill until the beginning of the establishment. From the beginning of the establishment to the implementation of the law. We are talking about establishing funding at the level, including for those schools that were previously established, the decision covers them. This isn't about the calculation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u145	Minister, I'm afraid the replica has the advantage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u146	My explanation, sorry. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u147	Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u148	Obviously, I wasn't quite clear before, because I didn't get an answer. I asked what is so-called Article 6 and the abolition of tuition in private schools, because this is very important, because otherwise it means that something is wrong or that the programmes that parents would otherwise pay themselves in the context of a superstandard are being abolished.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u149	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u150	If I return to the comment on the transitional provisions or application of the provisions. I repeat, there is no way that we can demand some of the standards for retrofitting, because schools operate and fulfil the appropriate public validity that they have acquired. As far as the application of the constitutional provision is concerned, this is the second part of the explanation to which it relates, that is to say, for at this point it is also valid within the proposal for an amendment which has been published. As far as tuition is concerned. If this is the same equation as funding for public schools, even public schools do not have tuition, we must also take into account the appropriate non-discrimination here.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u151	A replica? I suppose so, Mr. Tanko. Replica, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to ask for an explanation of what will be done in this case for the jubilee prizes because it is a government agreement, and the state, the state budget, pays the jubilee prizes, which are those who are members of the unions 20% of the roughly higher jubilee prize than those who are not members of the union. The agreement was concluded in the government of Alenka Bratušek between Minister Virant and the trade unions. Thus, this claim made by Mr Han is not true. This is the agreement between Mr Virant and the unions. I'd like an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u153	On the replica, I'm sorry, I don't have to give a replica, first look, now like this, stop abusing my rules of procedure for hiding behind the replica so someone can't answer you. [[...]] I will give my word first, and now I will take the matter into account; first I will give my word to the Minister, then I will get my colleague Han a replica – he does not need a replica. You need a replica? Yeah. The replica of Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you, President. Make it clear because we obviously don't understand each other. Following the so-called amendment of Article 86, the so-called private school will also receive 100% funding for the implementation of the compulsory public school programme. In doing so, we all know that these schools are also carrying out additional programmes, and now you, with Article 6 of these additional programmes, which are decided upon and which we are constantly trying to say are not the subject of this debate and the payments of the so-called country, are hereby abolished in Article 6. That is why I am interested in this because this seems very important to me, because then these schools would no longer be able to carry out so-called alternative concepts, which entail certain costs that should not be borne by the state.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u155	Do you want the secretary's word? The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u156	In this direction, however, a specific reply might be given a good look at the constitutional decision which states what it is, namely point 25 and point 26, where, of course, the explanation of this decision is also in accordance with Article 57.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u157	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and then the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, and first of all the answer on the anniversary prizes. 20 % of the higher jubilee awards are awarded to members of all trade unions who then signed an annex to the collective agreement and the legal basis is the Labour Relations Act-1. So, so much for the legal basis. Otherwise, I would like to point out in my debate the following fact, which is also referred to in Article 57 of the Constitution. The state creates opportunities for citizens to receive adequate education. I think that the network of primary schools is so well built in the Republic of Slovenia that everyone can get this education. Here is also the answer why someone has to pay if they decide to enter the primary school of a child, a certain difference. He made his own decision, but he has the opportunity to enroll the child in public school because the network is built and there are no problems. So if someone decides for themselves, he's made his own decision, and, of course, we don't have to deny it to him. It is true, however, that it would be very good to reflect on what I think has already been mentioned today, whether it would not be better to devote all of the funds we are talking about today to the public school network or primary schools, in order to make primary schooling truly free. At this point in time, parents are still covering certain costs and I think that, given the unemployment rate, given the increasingly acute situation of whether someone will have an indefinite period of employment or will have a certain time and so on, and in fact the difficulties in hiring young families, it would be worth considering not sharing resources in private and in public, because first of all it is necessary to ensure that we really make it possible for everyone to have access to public education. The network is built and it is therefore good to accept the amendment of the Constitution, where we make a clear distinction between public and private. If someone wants to have a private school, they can have it, they can offer a better service, they can offer, I don't know, better lecturers and people will decide for this school and they'll be willing to pay for it. But if we don't allow it, so if it's equally funded, then we're actually losing this bullet in private education. What, then, is the point of private schools if they are financed by public funds? This loss of interest that this is an added value is then significantly lower than if we make it clear that if someone wants to pay for quality in a private school, he will also know that he has paid for this quality. However, if this is uniform from the public budget or from the state budget, of course there will be no such quality.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u159	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u160	Thank you again, President, for your word. I am sorry, however, that instead of talking about which schools are good or bad, we talk about which schools are public or private, and even though some say how private they are better, although the country is less money for them, the public is some level playing field where everyone has to be on the same terms. On the other hand, I am afraid that we are talking about the Constitution or respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I have already said that we may not agree with any decision of the Constitutional Court, but I think we are all needed to respect them, and let this be so for ministers, officials who should follow the requirements of the Constitutional Court and amendments, and not least us as legislative branches of government. Why I find it disputed that the Constitutional Court, which I think is very simple, very explicit, given that I have been in the National Assembly for several years, has already read something. We have here a customer of the Modern Centre who won this paradigm, respect for the rule of law. We have a President of the Government who has always fought for this, sixteen months after the Constitutional Court's decision came, and he says, "As a lawyer and a President of the Government, I am unhappy because we are late in implementing a constitutional decision. Now I don't know if I should laugh or cry that I have such a government president who is unhappy, but he is a lawyer who should understand so easily the Constitutional Court's decision with ease and if an official at the Ministry is muttering because he is probably an advocate of what the representatives of that party are there, the United Left, the SD and Desus, to do it with the help of the Minister and to say: Stop, the decision of the Constitutional Court, the dot, the execution – one year's time, the action. It's perfectly simple. I believe that the minister is likely to have problems in her work, because some officials are already so insubordinate, but probably some officials are also insubordinate from this ideological belief, which apparently here too knows some disunity between at least a certain part of the work – I hope that I have correctly understood – the SMC Group of Members and the more radical socialist work on that side. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in the course of this struggle between a little more liberal thinking in the government or at the ministry and a strict socialist thinking that you will not take the path of pragmatic thinking and say that they should fight with each other, but wait two years at the most, and the mandate will pass, and the next Minister or next Prime Minister will deal with this matter. Today was a speech about the ideological burden of schools or that schools, at least public, should not be burdened ideologically. You can intimately agree with that, but if you ask your parents who have to take their children on a trip to the Eggs, you might also wonder whether this path of their children is ideologically burdened or unburdened. It is those who are struggling on how our school system is ideologically unburdened that have problems with competition, problems with an alternative and probably also with some additional quality in the field of education. In short, I kind of don't like this whole thing, because it's free, but when it comes to primary schools or if we talk in general about the whole vertical group in education about a percentage or two private schools, we go quickly to the trenches and forget everything else. On the other hand, I understand the demands of a certain part of this government as well as of Members, because we have already had a number of laws and debates in this mandate, which lead us to believe that there is a strong desire to nationalise a particular work or certain segments of policy. Let's look at the area of health, look at the area of forests and so on, because instead of letting go of competition, the market, the alternative, says the country, give us more, and everything will be fine. And in the area of banks, not last time. I hope that you will not come with any proposal, I spoke earlier about health care so that you will not come up with any proposal that two percent of private banks in Slovenia are a problem because there is obviously a 0.2% problem in primary education. So I would really like to ask when these debates are going to be that either you're consistent with all the vats, or you can decide how much you want these vats at all. Or in forests 100 % of the countries, in banks 100 % of the countries. However, when private education is 100%, and somewhere when you leave 2%, it is already part of a huge problem, for which – at least when I was around when we wrote this law in January 2015 – I said that this would be the position of parliamentary groups, we confirm the law and one hook will be solved in one decision of the Constitutional Court. The President of the Government as a lawyer will say super, the National Assembly respects the decisions of the Constitutional Court and we move on to other challenges. But no, this minister or Prime Minister has been unhappy for 16 months as a lawyer because he cannot regulate such a simple decision by the Constitutional Court. I'm not going to talk about public and private, 'cause then I'm going to walk by. However, I think there is one thing that, at least, I did not understand exactly before, my colleague Horvat, but I looked, a top-level lawyer, and again he said so legally that I did not know whether it was public, whether it was private, whether it was little for a mix, whether he had little problems with our law, or whether he had little problems with Mr Han's proposal to change the constitution, or whether he had a proposal from the Minister coming with one and the other proposal of the novel ZOFVI to deal with. I'm so sorry, this legal lattice sometimes goes a little bit over my ears, because I'm used to some more sound-minded, and with all due respect to Mr Horvath, I'm used to it. We have just always stressed that we are not talking about investments. We're talking about programs where local communities and the state are, or if one day there's another investor, there's a better one. Because they don't have to think about who's going to build the school, who's going to buy the equipment, who's going to maintain this investment, and that equipment, and so on. In short, if we had any interest in approaching a central average of countries, such as the EU, in the area of private or primary education, secondary or tertiary education, we would be happy to see another private school coming. And with all due respect to those who defend this salvation of public interest, if the problem is the Roman Catholic Church, say it out loud. But if the problem is any other religion, say it out loud. But anyone who even intends to think about a private school meets the Ministry and meets – I think it's called the Education Council or something like that, correct me if I'm wrong, where the exact conditions are defined, who meets – the hook, the hook, the hook – and if he meets all the conditions, he can become a private school. So this entertainment should essentially be an invitation to another private school — let me say again — to achieve all the conditions — to happen in our country, for less will have to invest in the congregations or in the country. The minister is probably aware of at least secondary and tertiary education, the pressures of new schools, high schools, high schools and so on, how individual colleges would like better places. As congregation councillors myself, I have said once before, let's do as many schools as we can with the help of the Ministry, so that it won't be a mistake that the congregation is in charge, and then there will be peace, but when you do one school, at least one school is required to rebuild another school. And in this case, once again, the municipality, especially the state, on that segment that talks about financing investments, would be better. This is also discussed in paragraphs 86 and 87 of the Constitutional Court decision. Here speaks the first sentence of paragraph 2 of these 85 %. The Constitutional Court also said that the second sentence would not go down, i.e. this sentence on investments. To conclude, I hope once again that the Prime Minister of the Government will be happy as soon as possible not to think for a few months about how one decision of the Constitutional Court has made him bitter in order to be happy to make two points: whether he follows a decision of the Constitutional Court or with the announcements of certain members of the coalition to replace the judges of the Constitutional Court as soon as possible so that – I will borrow the words of my colleague Matjaž – the device of the parties hangs. Although for a mecca, remember who proposed the majority of the constitutional judges to whom the President of the State proposed. Right not because he hasn't been there yet. Second call. First of all, I was disturbed by the fact that several Members in the positions of the parliamentary groups said that five judges of the Constitutional Court — a contradictory decision. Have all the decisions of the Constitutional Court been taken unanimously? No! No! And yes, everyone, even if one is unanimously adopted, is contradictory, and the president of the state would say, "So what? Let's respect her, even though we disagree with her." Moreover, Mr Wilphan said, we must maintain this good relationship between basic public and private schools. 99.7 to 0,3 %. If this is a good relationship, then, Your Honor, consider this relationship publicly and privately in the field of secondary education, higher education, health care and elsewhere. He talked about the privatisation of education at 0.3%, talking about the neoliberal principles of 0.3% and so on. Mr Weber also said, irrespective of the fact that the SDS refers to the Constitutional Court's decision. Yes, precisely because we are referring to the Constitutional Court's decision, we are respected today before the third attempt to finally bring this decision of the Constitutional Court to life! Next thing – previous judgments. Mr. Weber said, "Mrs. SMC." Please, once again, especially those who are members of the Constitutional Commission, read this decision of the Constitutional Court of 2013 and that of 2001. This 2014 talks about two issues: private school programmes. And the one from 2001 is talking about the whole school system. That's a big difference. That is why the Constitution has decided what has been decided, because, according to our Constitution, the primary education system is compulsory, which is supposed to be financed by the state and up and down, but all those who have children, from the smallest to the few, we know that our wallet is the main sponsor of this system, even though sometimes we may not care as much as the state does. I think there was one study last time where the average share of the country per student was, at least I think. in secondary schools, between €3 000 and €4,000. Well, if we look at our family budgets, how much we give for the children – depending. One of them wants the best notebooks, and one of them buys in certain segments. In short, I really ask that we no longer say in these two decisions that this decision is the same as that of 2001. No! No! I'm particularly worried about that because some lawyers are trying to say this, which usually refers to each picket and comma, but how different it is from the other. Dear Minister, you have many successes in this part of the ideological struggle within the coalition. But I'm really upset, even when I've been preparing myself for this meeting for these two three days, and when I've seen the ZOFVI that's already in front of us, this ZOFVI, who's on E-democracy, and then I read in this law, "This law comes into force 15 days after the publication in the Official Journal, and it starts with 1. of September." Why two novelties? Indeed, it seems purely sound to me, why now one novel is waiting for another novel, but if we look at this novel and the one that is in preparation, both have almost half the space on this so-called 135th article on records. In this law, let's say, there's not what's in the marriage that's supposed to come, which I think is crucial when I'm talking about records. There is no central record of employees and there is no problem of keeping records. We will now accept records, and then post festivals will deal with key issues, what is central records and nutrition issues. So with all due respect, Madam Minister, what kind of officer only needs to get his ears turned. To conclude, I really hoped that there would still be a problem in Slovenia, the issue of supplements for such and different preparedness, and that this 0.3% of private primary schools would not be a problem, but obviously, perhaps mainly because of the proposal, we have now made a top problem of this 0.3%. You may have seduced us by not thinking for two days about how to deal with the problem of supplements for such and different readiness in the field of education in Slovenia. In short, to conclude: we would lose nothing if this law were confirmed today, because the Constitutional Court's decision is partly about what I quickly read on this e-democracy, what you want to settle. But here exactly is the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86. And that's not what this other novel of yours is gonna solve when it comes. I think it would be much easier to follow the provision if we were to resolve exactly what the Constitutional Court wrote, but not what Mr Horvath said, how we should think a little differently in the Constitutional Court. On the contrary, we must consider exactly how we will follow the Constitutional Court's decision. After accepting this, I wouldn't mind if the SD Group opened a debate on what is private or what is public education. But once again, call on the proposers of this proposal to amend the Constitution, if you are so demagogous or contentive, however you take it, if you take it as an area of education, to review the whole constitution, and see where the shoe stings in the area of private, and be consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u161	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the applicant gets the floor. Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you. My friend Tomaž wondered in front of me why two novels by ZOFVI. One is now in the procedure of the National Assembly, one is only in the public debate on e-democracy. I think today's debate has already clarified why. Because apparently one novel or certain changes to the law do not yet have complete support for the coalition or have not yet been brought into line and then these novels or changes that are today may fall. Mr. Han, before he leaves, I need to replicate one thing, because I'm not before, I apologize. In terms of SVIZ and what my colleague Tanko warned – 20% more. It's not true that he was Visjak, it's not true! The Act or Annex to the Collective Agreement is published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 46, 2013 of 29. 5. In 2013, Minister Pikalo signed. The agreement on this was concluded on 20 May – read from the Official Journal, then the Official Journal lies – this agreement was agreed on 20. 5. 2013; Government and trade unions. Signature, once again, for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr. Jernej Pikalo, SWIZ Jelka Velički, ZSS Bojan Hribar and Independent Union of Workers of Human Universities Dr. Tomaž Saiovic, Official Journal No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That was the deal with the unions back then. If you think there has been an agreement in the time of Mr Visiak, such an agreement might not come into force. Okay. Let's just leave it. However, this is one of the things that we might be concerned about, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have been paying attention to this, we also wanted to correct these things, and because it is not within our competence to deal with collective agreements and so on, we are essentially these things without giving such an act, but we may otherwise be able to achieve them. So much for that. I agree that the criteria for opening both public and private schools implementing public programmes should be strict criteria or that these criteria should be set by the expert board to be endorsed by the Ministry. However, some debaters today spoke as if there were no such criteria, as if all these schools that had opened up had opened up on the basis of criteria that were not sufficiently clear, that did not meet certain needs in the local area and so on. And that even those criteria should be recorded in the law. We are already talking about this in Article 17, or it is stated that "all the educational programmes referred to in the preceding paragraph" – because it speaks of this – "will become public when the competent professional council finds that the programme is in line with the aims of the education and education system in the Republic of Slovenia..." Article 2 of this Law and so on. So we already have criteria to respect today. What the novel says now, which is currently in the public debate – and today, I think, we have talked a little too much about it as if it is fixed – adds only because I will say it myself, the programme contributes to the enrichment of the school space and represents a complement to the public school system. I'm very interested in what it is. What this will mean is the enrichment of the school system and the completion of the public school system. So once again, the criteria – yes, the strict ones, are determined professionally, in the professional world, and this cannot go to law because then we will discuss these criteria in the National Assembly and this will be the whole thing – so that I do not say what. Then we'll all be smart, which criterion is appropriate, which is inappropriate. This should be done by an expert who's been keeping an eye on it so far. But it's a question of something. Private schools are supposed to be evaluating, the first generation. Why not public school? Who evaluates public schools, who evaluates the implementation of public programmes in public schools and says Now you will say NPK and so on. [[…]] The NPK doesn't mean anything anymore today, kids are making a fool of it, teachers get angry, they're on average or they're falling, knowledge shows they're going down, but that's the question again, because I'm also saying that kids are making a fool out of it because this NPK doesn't mean anything to them, because it's nothing binding. However, it can show what and many things show; they also point to the development of Slovenia in areas. One of the indicators is that these are also the things I've been talking about. But once again, who evaluates public education, who evaluates all our teachers in public schools? In foreign countries, we know what is happening or what evaluation is like. Well, in colleges, especially when students are a little more qualified to evaluate or realize that a good teacher who gives knowledge is not the one who leaves them five minutes before school. With us, the best teacher in public school is the one who leaves the children alone for half an hour and goes, but the one who is strict is the worst. But 10 years later, we know that opinions change when little children mature. SMC also discussed today in terms of not being against private education, promoting private education and so on. I recommend you go watch your debates, at least 15. 3. and 16. The 12th from last year, and your discussions today. As colleague Han said, the President of the Government already knew when to go to a private school of affairs, his opinion. So look at the things, because the fact that you've actually turned the board today is essentially the result of that when we put this in, your proposal for a law was put on the e-democracy. At this point, I would just like to call on the Minister to come and present to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group a proposal for a law or a amendment to this law, so that we can actually see and clarify. I think there's also Article 9 that's still kind of hanging in the air today. Indeed, the explanations stated that schools established before the amendment of the law were not subject to its provisions, the conditions and methods of financing were maintained." Now, conditions and ways, you can also height. So, yeah, come on. It's not just about that, it's about the whole thing, because it's also good to hear what the criteria are that you're actually going to allow now, or the professional world is going to be allowed or not going to be allowed to private schools. I think it's hard to believe that private schools are going to grow like mushrooms in the rain or branches. It is unlikely that, at the end of the day, the branch must provide material conditions, spatial conditions, provide teachers, provide quality programmes, including those prepared by the Ministry. So to put it this way, now this is a choice, and now there will be no new private schools, no new investors, because the criteria are so bad. I don't see them, the criteria, and I don't have to say that they're bad and that we're going to get new ones – I don't know. This, Mr Han, has been said a little bit, because these criteria are the only thing I say if you know them, I don't see them. [[…]] It is not said that we will bind new private schools, in a certain sense it would not be bad, but in a certain question again, but it is necessary to know or hope that things will not go ideologically; so if it opens the Church, it is wrong if it opens, but I do not know that I will not say who, but it will be right. Because today, too, this has been exposed several times. I think that our novels, or I still say, are on the coalition alone, that this change is adopted in the first reading and then aligned with the government proposal, because there is also no change in the criteria in the government proposal in the sense that we see the criteria now. These criteria will change, because the government and the coalition have said many times, we will change the funding according to the Constitutional Court's decision, but we must also look at the criteria and so on. This is not under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. It's not! These criteria can also be made by the Ministry individually or at the same time. We don't say in anything in our novel that these criteria, I don't know, don't have to change them. They can change. Yes, you can. But if I go back to this novel that's ahead of us, because I hope the Minister will come and present it, we have 100 percent funding again. What's the difference now? Where's that line going to be when they say it's 100, then 85. They're not exactly criteria here either. And I say these criteria are so controversial and you always say that we need to change them, then we will finance them, not under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, not the law, and you can regulate them in the lower ones, with the rules that are under the authority of the Ministry. Therefore, this proposal is acceptable, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, can be adopted in the first reading and then reconciled with the proposal of the coalition. The criteria, I say again, are not within our purview, will be confirmed by the Minister. It's in her jurisdiction and in her professional world. Therefore, do not make excuses to the criteria that they prevent us from following the Constitutional Court's decision. I have already talked about the social state and that we are a social state and so on, but I think that this decision of the Constitutional Court is also a follow-up to allow a wider population to join these private schools, because today the debaters have acknowledged that they are better off because you said parents should enter private schools to pay for a better programme. So you've admitted that private schools run better programs or are better on the market.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u163	All the advertised debaters who wanted it, you got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Okay. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the proposal's representative, Mrs Jelka Godec, and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will be given the word as the last, first the representative of the Government then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! I also take this opportunity to express my gratitude and appreciation for the spoils of our former fellow Member, Ambassador of New Slovenia, Mr Toneth Kokalj, who, with a few more parents, has put forward the initiative for the constitutional review of the law that we are talking about today. But the one we are talking about today is not constitutionally controversial, but the law that is constitutionally controversial still applies, and we have not yet done our homework in a good year. I never remember ever getting a homework assignment at school, and my teacher would tell me to do it in a year and a half. Mate Matjaž Han dealt correctly with the question of who can afford a private school, which parents can afford a private school. Why is that a question on the table? Because these schools are probably good. And a few years ago, fifteen, twenty years ago, when I was still in the world of the elementary school that my children attended, and of course, so did I, at one time our principal came to the meeting of the institution's world and said, among other things, that our primary school must also be competitive. I shook his hand for that statement. Because the question with which colleague Matjaž, our colleague, we have known for many years, friend, deals, and somehow is based on one assumption, and this is, as I understand it, that the state schools – these 400 – are round – that they are all mathematically the same, because this question can then be raised, for the state schools of a family in Lendava, who would like to put their child in Ljubljana, and ask ourselves, Matjaž and I, who can afford it. There is a state school in Lendava and there is a state school in Ljubljana. What's here now, who can afford something? Well, who can afford anything? And another thing, colleagues and colleagues, I know private schools, primary and secondary, that form a scholarship fund for socially weak families. This should be confirmed by one of the secretaries of state, and the minister was once, who also had his own child in private school, I will not talk about names, and discretion is also worth something. Private ones can afford families who may be at the edge of society because they help them there. I speak from experience. All these marathon debates that we have, I am really signing my colleague Matjaž's statement, who says let's make a decision, and that is the end of this vote. Indeed, as the President of New Slovenia, Mrs Ludmila Novak, said, when we are talking about money and, of course, we are talking about money this time, we are talking about four lashes, we are talking about the good four lashes of all the funds that the state employs for primary education. And we're talking about seven per cent of employees in private primary schools in relation to all the employees in the entire primary school system. Where does this resistance to private education come from? It is generally a misunderstanding and prejudice arising from the thought indoctrination of the system, which has greatly magnified the state and denied it privately. And look, this desecration of privacy, as I said before, someone wrote down that this concentrate is madness. Let us, colleagues and colleagues, dilute this concentrate once to subatomic particles that are being explored in Cerno and in decision makers to fear the loss of monopoly over the exercise of such indoctrination over the masses of future generations. I mean, I have a feeling that today's debate has only unified us a little bit, and that we have a little bit more money from now on, but as soon as possible, maybe immediately after the first May holidays, we can fix and do this homework that the Constitutional Court has given us. Do not wait and have some hope that there will be a new Constitutional Court that may think otherwise. God forbid.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. See, already, the General Education Council of the Ministry of Education assesses whether a private school programme, such as this educational programme, provides an equivalent educational standard. This has somehow also achieved that this public programme actually allows children to make progress. So it already exists. If the problem is measuring why the problem is right now when we're talking about 100 percent, it's not a problem now that we have 85 percent funding. See if they measured the problem, but they can't be a problem just because of that 15%. So it's strong for the hair. The fact is that the proponents, this is the Slovenian Democratic Party, are only achieving one goal with this proposal, which is to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. But with what the Ministry has prepared and is now only in E-democracy, there will be a few more problems. I told you earlier about a so-called problem that you're talking about shutting down so-called tuition. See, in paragraph 25, the Constitutional Court makes it clear that "the inherent difference in the principles under which private or public school as an institution operates only appears in extended educational programmes which are not financed by public funds and are therefore not subject to this initiative. The right to attend the compulsory public education programme free of charge does not require the country to finance the implementation of superstandard or extended programmes with which private schools pursue their partisan interests." The second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution therefore requires that the compulsory minimum of basic education, which is uniformly determined by content, be publicly financed and not covered by the financing of additional content which depends on the value of the individual operators. So you will be deprived of what you now set out, because they will no longer be able to implement this programme. Otherwise, tell me how they're gonna do it. Because the fact is, you can now say an addition to the implementation of the program. The kids at school are already paying. For example, what do we include in the extra payment for foreign language in public elementary school? That's what the kids are paying for today. We don't call it tuition, it's contributions. You say you need to be clear and say contributions will be allowed, but they will not be allowed to pay fees because these parents will probably contribute to this program, even because sometimes they have more activities that concern outside the school area, and that costs. Something's finally not gonna be right here. What matters here is what is now the subject of our law, it is to enable the child of taxpayers who pay taxes equally in Ljubljana, I do not know in Maribor, or I do not know where, in Radeč, to attend primary school and in it the program and by the country receive the same amount of funds for it. Nothing else. It's just a school called a different school. It works on another principle, but the public programme is the same. The fact is that something is preventing you from supporting the decision of the Slovenian Democratic Party today, or the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, even though your President of the Government has said that he feels very bad and hopes that the matter will be settled as soon as possible. He won't. Because this is an e-democracy and it will reopen new questions, and you will wait for the mandate to expire.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister with a team, colleagues and fellow Members! When I discuss, somehow in the conclusion of today's session on public, private education, I will not discuss ideologically, but it certainly cannot be equal in public and in private. Today there was a lot of talk about how things changed with the law after 1996, funding of 85% for the implementation of private schools implementing public programmes. Before, of course, my colleague Tanko said why, from where is it unfair that teachers in private schools get 15% less than teachers in public schools. I would say this, the teachers or the one who set up the school, clearly, the founder knew that 15% of the funds would have to be received somewhere and that in no way could pay the teacher less, sometimes we even know that teachers were paid better there than in public schools. Of course, what is private public – there are many questions about education at all. In three points I might describe here a little bit: public school is open to everyone, that's what I'd say for the first time. For here children of rich parents, children of poor parents, children who come from various social circumstances can be enrolled. Today, it has been repeatedly said that we must not forget that we live in a social state. In private schools, we need to know that, even if they are not official, there are restrictions and that many of these schools are, of course, better students, and it is clear that there are better results. That's perfectly logical. I don't know how many students with special needs might be enrolled in one of those private schools with regard to public school, and then we can have a debate. Now, as far as Europe is concerned. As for comparisons with private schools in Europe, we can say that we are somewhere in a solid place, not to say we are on top, but we are not in the lower part. Earlier, my colleague Jelka also said elite high school, and so on – I have to agree with you on this. But this does not apply only to elite high schools in public school, we can also talk about private education. Some principals are kind of humiliating, and they also somehow explain things to their students on such or other occasions as you mentioned that they should not associate with students of vocational schools, vocational schools, and so on. This is of course very humiliating, because I am very sensitive here, because I have been teaching at a public school where I have been educating students in professional and professional programs, and I must say that these students can work beautifully, they can be motivated. Of course, they are more aware and possess some practical knowledge, and we must not forget that they are workers, future workers in an economy where somehow new value is created. About the percentage or the growth of private schools. Of course, now that there may be a limit, this curve does not grow so quickly. The fact is that when we first look at these private schools, less than 1% is much less, but interesting in private schools between 2007 and 2014, 2007 was registered in primary schools, private schools, 243 children and in 2014 a thousand 46. If I compare it now, it's about 400 percent growth. Of course, if there was a change in funding, it would certainly change and this curve would certainly grow more, but I have nothing against private schools not to think. However, it is necessary, of course, to define this and, as I said, to settle a number of issues that will, of course, need to be addressed. I hope that we will also partially save them with this amendment of this law, which is in preparation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u170	Now I'm gonna start at the end. 400% growth in private schools, but first you say private schools are locked up and not everyone has to go to private schools! What kind of contradiction is that? 400% growth, but at the same time you're saying that they have to take everyone to public schools and not private schools. That there are restrictions in high schools, private schools — yes, they are — and that there are better students — yes, there is an average of 5. Now I'll tell you from my own case. My daughter's on average, and she enrolled in private school, high school. He's not a better student. So don't keep this rule, don't keep it. You write, private school isn't open. Why isn't it open? Who's got a problem getting into private school? Tell me a specific problem. Who's got a problem? Who? Yeah, because it's a church, I'm not gonna sign up for the one who doesn't. That's the problem! And here she is locked up, or the parents are alone, or the child says, and I'm not going to a school like this. But what you're saying right now is a complete ignorance of private schools. Ignorance. And because you were, Mr. Škodnik, a teacher, and I was a teacher, the interpretation then passed on to the students, or to the students, that then the students in the elementary school to the one who enrolled in the private school said, "Do you go to the nun?" This is a ignorance of private schools and the functioning of private schools! I really want to know what the limit is today in private schools, entering the first class of private school. Which one? Social position, economic position? Then allow 100% funding so that even poorer parents can register if, of course, this is your opinion, poorer parents will enroll children in private schools if the problem is these tuitions, if that's the problem. Because even in elementary school – I don't know who said, Mr. Horvat – far from being a free public school. Far from it! It is paid monthly in the second class of EUR 50 up, as much as the tuition in a private school. Exactly the same amount. Now, again, tell me where the restrictions are in private school and where public schools are cheaper than private schools if the economic situation of parents is a problem. Then allow 100% funding, then put this proposal into a follow-up procedure, align with you, so with the coalition, and we'll discuss where is the problem that's bothering us now. Today, I have not received the substantive rejection of our novel, except that private schools lock doors so that not everyone can register in private schools, that I don’t know what kind of problems everything is — not that it isn’t. At the same time, 400 percent growth! Thank God! Once again, there were no substantive reasons. There were reasons. The government hasn't spoken for more than 4, I think, four or five minutes. It is true that this is our third proposal and that you have already expressed your opinions to Members. But if this third proposal were not available, I also think that the Government's proposal would not be on the table or in public debate. Today the problem is not the criteria for 85 % funding, but for 100 % we must now do not know what criteria. Now there's going to be a problem to make a difference! Our proposal appears to be more and more appropriate. Because look at what the SMC says: we are not for the equalisation of public and private schools, but at the same time a proposal for 100% funding comes from the government, and you are now saying something. I'll ask you in two months when we have this in D.C. Then will you be in charge of equalizing public and private schools? The government proposal is 100% – under certain conditions, of course. And for those who have already been established, they are already functioning, said the minister that 100 % of funding is in place, that the criteria, evaluation will not work backwards and so on. You're saying you're not up for this today. You're out of line, the ministry and the coalition, or so I saw you not. But, SMC, read the magnetogram of today's session, what you were saying, because in two months you'll be supporting this proposal or it's just sand in your eyes to talk today about some novelty that the government is supposed to be on. In four minutes, the government has said nothing about our proposal, and I therefore once again suggest that you put our proposal into practice, and then we will talk. Criteria are not a problem because they are not [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 18th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m. and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u172	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Partnership Commitment Act under the ordinary procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 8b, which we already made yesterday's explanation of vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 49. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 9. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. I will explain both amendments to Articles 9 and 11 because this is a similar or related amendment. It's actually very simple. With the amendments, we are trying to shorten the application of this law from 9 months to 6 months. In Article 9, we shorten the time limit for amending the rules necessary for the regulation of the single home record and reduce the time by Article 11 to enforce the law by 3 months. As an additional argument to this, I would just add that when we adopted the amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, and there was no amendment at that time, exactly a six-month deadline that would probably require substantial changes in the register and would further stress here that, for three months in particular, we are extending the situation to those who are now living in unregistered partnerships and have this intention to continue on this path. Thus, we will, of course, support from these aspects in the United Left Amendment, especially because this partial elimination of discrimination takes place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u174	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We have already explained in the debate why the amendment cannot be supported. The Ministry simply stated that the timeline proposed by the amendment of the United Left is simply too short, so that it makes no sense to accept an amendment which would then prove, in some real life, that certain authorities could not properly implement it. That's why the amendment, unfortunately, cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u176	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 67. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 67.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 11. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 67. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 67.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. I ask first of all whether there is any explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. [[…]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that in the SMC Group we are aware that the law does not eliminate discrimination against the same-sex persons in full, the law certainly means a step forward in regulating the status of the same-sex persons in their daily lives. Given that the law itself at various points also represents those points which were recognised as non-problems in the general debate at the last referendum, it seems right for us to take this step and, of course, support the law in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u178	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Peter Wilfan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. Of course I'll support this marriage. Not because I think he's good or right, because I think he's the one who was unfortunately rejected at the referendum. However, I still believe that the Slovenians do not support that referendum decision in the majority, but it is true that they have gone to voters in a small number and that we must now live with this decision. As far as this law that we have here today is concerned, it is, of course, a compromise. Not the best, I might even say bad, because no compromise that speaks of human rights is actually good. I really hope that someone here in this House does not think or even imagines that we are the ones who have agreed to this compromise. This compromise has been agreed upon by those of whom this law speaks, but they have agreed, because they have found that, at this moment, this is the most, the maximum of that whole set of human rights that can be obtained in this democratic, free-minded, advanced and open Slovenia. For the end again: I will vote in favour, but at the same time I take this opportunity to apologize to all those who are touched by this law, because this one will not sing for anything in order that their rights actually be equal to mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u180	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u181	Naturally, today's law will be passed, I am glad at least that Slovenia will return, or only for half, to the map of those countries that are at least partially addressing these issues. But I am also pleased that this act opens the door to the full exercise of rights; of course, in a different way, as it seems to most countries, because of course the Constitutional Court will have to decide. I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u182	We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. There were 54 votes in favour and 15. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on protection against discrimination under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 53. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 6. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 61. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 33. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with a vote of 3 to 65. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 65.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 35. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 63. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 63.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 17. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda – second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Offences under the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 8. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 29 becomes irrelevant. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 47. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 8 was not adopted, the amendment to Article 29 became irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 8. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 24. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 47. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the proposer has already proposed, in the introductory explanation of the draft law, that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at this meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 15. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The State Assembly will hold a third debate on the bill's proposal on Monday, 25. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I addressed a letter to you, actually it is unusual for the National Assembly to do this third vote on Monday, when there is no reserve term. In fact, the 2016 work programme provides Tuesday as a backup date, I think 26, and I propose that we do this on Tuesday, 26th, as foreseen by the calendar of the National Assembly. There is no need to introduce, I will say past the adopted calendar, another reserve deadline for the work of the National Assembly and thus deliberately interfere in the operation of, I don't know, an investigative commission which has a hearing of four representatives who have participated in the design or creation of a bank hole. But it's the Factor Bank and the ACH. In short, I suggest to you, Mr President, that you do not so clearly interfere with the planned work of the Commission of Inquiry. So far, we have faced enough blockades both in the National Assembly in determining the investigative commission and later in the decisions of the court, which have now fallen in some way — judges of the Ljubljana District Court, who in some way received a rejection in the Constitutional Court. And now you are also politically interfering with this hearing process conducted by this commission of inquiry. I propose that we do what the schedule of the National Assembly provides for any third hearing on these proposals to be carried out on Tuesday at the time of the deadline provided for in the annual work plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u184	I'll explain now. For Monday, I anticipate a call for an extraordinary meeting on the basis of the two requirements that they are. It is therefore pointless to hold a third debate, entirely independent of this, which is a simple economy of time which the National Assembly must take into account, plus all those deadlines that are set, as far as the references to extraordinary meetings are concerned. I have two demands and these two requirements must be properly implemented. So that explains why Monday at 9:00. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We can also hold an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday, because no demands are on the deadline, but they are all practically a few days since they were submitted, and you have 15 days at your disposal. Not for our request for an extraordinary session, not for the one put forward by the coalition, but for such a hurry, nor for the water to be so hot that an extraordinary meeting should be convened on Monday, it may be Tuesday when we have a deadline for the work of the National Assembly and we can hold third hearings and have an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Everything else is explicit speculation and obstruction of the work of the investigative commission, which is investigating a bank hole and will hear the last management staff of the Bank Factor and, of course, also the owners of the majority owner in this Bank Factor, i.e. the director, former director of ACH Mr. Rigelnik, who, by the way, was also your predecessor in the presidency of the National Assembly. In short, I suggest that you do not serve and enable or, if you have already decided to do so, do so when we have foreseen the calendar of the National Assembly. Everything else you do is maneuvers and obstructing the work of the commission of inquiry. There is nothing else in the background, Mr President. You don't even have to justify it in some logical way. Otherwise, it is totally unrelated that we adopted the calendar on 9 November last year, the calendar of the National Assembly, if you are not even able to hold regular meetings on the calendar, nor are you able to complete regular meetings on the calendar with all dates. And by the way, if you were in such a hurry to arrange a different meeting, we could have finished this meeting of the National Assembly some day earlier. So, I suggest that we continue to hold the meeting of the National Assembly on the reserve deadline provided for in the calendar, which is 26 April. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u186	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor for procedural reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In some ways, I agree with the need to respect the calendar we adopted last November, how we will work in the National Assembly, but I must point out that I have been waiting for this opportunity for some time to say the same. However, I must say that it is from the SDS Group that the Presidents of the Commission of Inquiry convene meetings on Monday when Members are scheduled to work in the field's offices. It's planned in advance, if I'm not mistaken, even 8 or more meetings on Monday. Nor do these colleagues adhere to the calendar we adopted last October or November.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u188	Procedural Master Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u189	Dear President of the National Assembly, we most likely agree in this respect that everyone sitting in this Chamber is extremely unpredictable, and if anything, then tries to make it at least a tiny bit more predictable, this clock that we accept in some way. We all know that Tuesday has been adopted as a time limit for the continuation of this sitting, which is still ongoing today. As it all appears, we will conclude on Friday, and I see no reason why we should not do the extraordinary session that you are now planning for Monday on Tuesday, when this is a free reserve term. Why does that make sense to me? Because some colleagues have already pointed out that meetings of some commissions are already scheduled for Monday: the bank investigator, the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, and some Members have obligations, our Members have obligations in their constituencies or on the ground, for which Mondays are also foreseen. If it has been planned for some time and things have already been set up, why should they be fully put on their heads by reference to an extraordinary session, if it is not necessary on Monday and if we can do so on Tuesday. This thing can't be taken any differently than an attempt at some sort of conjecture. However, why some things are invoked on Monday, at least as regards the investigator, I think that the members of the commission of inquiry – I am a substitute member there, so it will be clear – that the members of the commission of inquiry have given some agreement that these committees may be convened on Monday, although I can agree here with my colleague Jurša that Mondays are intended for the ground and that certain committees and committees are convened on Mondays is also a reason because all the other appointments are so held with all the meetings and committees that there are actually no other options and deadlines. In short, to conclude, my procedural proposal is that this third-reading vote should not be held on Monday and that this session, which you have proposed and you are probably planning for Monday, will be done on Tuesday and that the things planned on Monday will be carried out by the Commission, but they will proceed normally and smoothly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u190	I think it is a good place to discuss these matters, my college, which is convened for tomorrow and will be at my college tomorrow, and we will inform all Members of this. Procedurally first, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I come forward with a procedural proposal to you, Mr President, this time as a member of the investigative commission. No member of the investigative commission or president is in the composition of your college. We agreed unanimously to reserve Mondays if you want to sacrifice, to invite many of the interrogators to the meeting and to hold very important hearings. On Monday, Mrs Vera Mihatovic, Mr Boris Pesjak, Mr Cyril Dragonja and Mr Herman Rigelnik are at the hearing. Do you think any of us like being here on Mondays? See, this hearing of four will last for 12 hours on the basis of experience from previous hearings, because the hearings are open and closed in nature. My constituents haven't seen me Monday for weeks because of this investigative committee, because I can only see that my first duty here is in this house. But in the field, thank God, I accept them on Saturdays and Sundays at home in our dining room. So, Mr. President, honestly, please don't interfere. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] May I?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u192	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u193	Do not interfere with the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which has a very important task and from which our taxpayers expect us to explain, at least partially, who is responsible for the 5 billion large bank hole covered by the taxpayers. [[…]] This is actually one of the priorities of this National Assembly and, last but not least, the parliamentary inquiry is a constitutional category. I don't mean to say we don't want to work, of course not, but let's agree on a collegiate agreement, as my colleague says, and to hold a meeting of the National Assembly and an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on Tuesday, 26 April. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u194	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Tomorrow's college is unnecessary if you decide when this meeting will continue today. If you have decided Monday and Monday will also be an extraordinary meeting, you do not need any more colleges. It's a pro-Form thing. A completely unnecessary procedure, a ritual that will bring nothing. Today, Mr President, it is important to say that if you convene a meeting on Monday that you have violated the manner in which the National Assembly is working, which is determined by an annual calendar, not to take into account your own proposals for when the deadlines for the work of the National Assembly are. Your own proposal. I think it's a minimum standard to at least respect what you're proposing. Don't be like your President, Mr. Mir Cerar. I propose to you, Mr President, that we continue, if necessary, with this meeting on Tuesday and that you also order the start of an extraordinary meeting Tuesday, which will address those two points that you have set out to put on the agenda. I think that in such a way, such a manipulative way that you move the work of the National Assembly, which is predetermined, is not right. Especially not because when you do so, you will reach out to the work of an investigative commission with four witnesses on the program; the hearing will begin at 9 p.m. and the final hearing will begin at 4 p.m., which means that by 6 p.m. You must have decided to help these people not see them on the investigative committee next time. Because they're going to be organized in some other way. If this is the intention, it is a serious intention for the commission of inquiry dealing with a bank hole to do the work, in your opinion, then this is, I don't know, a strange procedure. Time's enough! As regards the implementation of the request for an extraordinary meeting submitted by the SMC Group, it submitted it yesterday and is due until 5 May. We have submitted our request for an extraordinary meeting one day earlier, so you can call it by 4 May. There is no need for you to do this exactly on Monday and exactly when the investigative commission for the investigation of banking acts and when the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission meets. There's no reason. There's enough time. In the meantime, Mr President, there are also no important sessions of working bodies, almost nothing in this week since Tuesday. One holiday, and then maybe the coalition wanted tied up vacations, and maybe a little bit. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u196	First of all, I don't apply for extraordinary sessions myself. These requests for extraordinary meetings must be responded to in accordance with the Constitution. Secondly, what is under the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly is to say when there will be a matter, and also the President at the time of adoption of this decision. In fact, the rules of procedure say that it is necessary to say so. Secondly, it is still necessary for the College to determine the time allocated to the debaters or those who are proposing, to the Government and to the College. This is not such a simple matter that the College should not have. I said we'd talk about this at the College tomorrow. At the College, we discuss such issues, and we never discuss at the plenary session when there will be a meeting — at least as far as this is concerned — because the College of the President of the National Assembly is dedicated to this. The College may also vote on these matters, if necessary, in accordance with the way the matter is done in the College. However, I certainly do not intend to put this matter to a vote now, but I intend to proceed with the meeting alone. Procedural for the same thing? No, I don't think so. In fact, this is already a third process, it is an abuse of procedure, Mr Tanko, that we are on the clear side. You have the floor for procedural, but you know this is an abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u197	Mr President, this is absolutely no abuse! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow me to address a procedural question to you, and it does not say that I can do it once, twice, three times. That's not limited. That's what you took the president's right to judge how many times anyone can ask. If you, and today you have done so, ordered that the continuation of the regular meeting on Monday 25 and not Tuesday as scheduled, this is said to be 26, then you cemented the manner in which the National Assembly works differently, as set out in the schedule adopted on 9 November last year. If you decide that, and now you say that there will also be an extraordinary meeting on Monday, then you don't need to, you don't need to call any more sessions, you'll give that paper around and we'll announce the time as it would seem to anyone. I suggest that you do the right thing to do in order to continue the meeting on Tuesday, 26th, when we have a deadline, a deadline for the continuation of the meeting, and if you decide to hold the 26th meeting, we can also make an extraordinary meeting at that time. Otherwise, our point at the extraordinary meeting may be 4 May or 4 May, and the request submitted by the SMC may be made by 5 May. There is no reason that it is exactly on Monday, when the investigative commission meets to identify the bank hole and those who caused it. There's absolutely no reason. The constitutional task will also be fulfilled by you and by business if this is realised as far as our request is concerned, by 4 May and as far as the coalition or SMC request for an extraordinary meeting is concerned, by 5 May. There will be no violation. None at all. What you interpret as having to do in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, you have the opportunity to do so by 4 and 5 May and not Monday. This is a provocation that you will do if you order the continuation of the meeting of the National Assembly on Monday, for which you do not even have calendar options. Otherwise, you do not fully address any schedules and order and so on in the National Assembly and also do not need to follow the rules of procedure anymore. The coalition doesn't need this anymore because it's all under the authority of the President of the National Assembly because it does what it wants and whenever it wants. I suggest we do this on Tuesday, 26th, and continue the session and, if necessary, an extraordinary session. Even if Juliana Bizjak Mlakar is still a minister for three days, it won't water in the middle of Antoni's trench. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u198	The last sentence of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, in the second paragraph, states that this third reading is to be carried out after 24 hours after the receipt of the review and so on. "The President shall decide when the third hearing shall take place immediately after the adoption of the decision referred to in the preceding paragraph." I've done this before. I've read it to you when it will. The second option, which would be, I will say to the end, the second option that would be, an extraordinary meeting on Monday and a regular one on Tuesday. This possibility also exists, we can talk about it at the College, I'm willing to talk about it there, but at this point this matter, as it was told, is also standing. The congregation services will prepare a review of their activities [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] – when I read the end of this sentence – included the adoption of the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u199	Mr President, it will also be 24 hours tomorrow at 8 p.m. And tomorrow at 8:00, we'll be able to wait an hour or two tomorrow, and we'll finish this third review of the law. Look, everything else is a manipulation you can afford. That's what we can do if we spend till 6:00 tomorrow night, but we'll wait two hours to finish this, so we don't go special on Monday, so there won't be an investigative commission. But if there is any other reservation, Mr President, you will do one thing that is unusual and which you will afford as manipulation and as an abuse of the rules of procedure and schedule of the Assembly. If you have a problem with these 24 hours, we'll be able to vote on it tomorrow at 8:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u200	I am also prepared to discuss this question whether this third debate will be held tomorrow or Monday at the College of the National Assembly. The college was called tomorrow at 8 p.m., so everyone will be informed in due time as to how the matter will be handled. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 63 of the Tax Procedure Act is not adopted. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 16. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the decision is not taken or pardoned, that the decision is adopted and that this authentic interpretation is not adopted. This concludes the procedure for the adoption of the authentic interpretation. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill of Supplements to the Law on tax clearance of accounts. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the law on tax clearance of accounts is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u201	Mr President, thank you for saying so. In the SDS Group, we will confirm the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on tax clearance of accounts. The key two objectives that we are proposing are that the tax registers be abolished and that the State reimburses all the costs to the taxpayers who have set up the software and technical equipment. The fact is that in all the problems involved in the adoption of the Tax Law, supported by the parties: the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats, Desus, all those comments have now been made. The fact is that the introduction of tax boxes has had the opposite effect, as has the general public of SMC, Desusa and SD. The fact is, entrepreneurs are shutting down their activities. In December 2015, the largest number of espies since December 2012 was closed. The biggest shock was also experienced by farmers, culturers and societies, to whom the establishment of these tax registers is a huge cost and a huge amount of bureaucratic obstacles. We certainly cannot agree that it will also follow the objective proposed by the Government, which was forecast to reduce the grey economy. Moreover, the government of Mira Cerar and this coalition of SMC, Desus and Social Democrats are promoting the grey economy through the measures it proposes. This means additional tax burdens both for the economy and for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as with additional bureaucratic measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u202	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Mr Tillen Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. In the opinion of our Group of Members, the SMC Group, the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. The reasons are as follows. After three months, when this law, which was one of the most important in preventing the grey economy and also limiting the prevention of work on the black side and helping to reorganise the tax inspection service in a way that would be more effective in detecting and persecuting also what the proposaler was talking about in terms of storms, we feel that the elimination of this would be somewhat unwise, so quickly without obtaining the data we are expecting somewhere in mid-May. The first effects are somehow already known, pointing in a positive direction. There are also some statements, and I will take this right here, that I will mark now indeed as malicious what is misleading about some of the data. We are pleased to see what will happen as regards the study and analysis of these data coming in mid-May. During this time, we also monitor and take many initiatives, we talk about them, then I hope that some of them may even be supported by these data, that some of them will be rejected and, if necessary, taken action. However, it is primarily about measures relating to other laws, but not to this law, which only technically regulates that if an account is issued, it must also be fiscalised in real time. So, as already stated in the introduction, we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u204	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 49. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is suitable for further consideration. Mrs Jelka Godec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u205	In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose to amend the Law on the organisation of education and financing at work, i.e. Article 86 on the financing of private schools, from 85% of the funding to 100%, as provided for in the Constitutional Court Decision of December 2014. In fact, the Constitutional Court at that time found that the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to public education programmes is contrary to the Constitution and that these discrepancies should be eliminated within a year. Today, more than a year from this decision, the coalition itself or the Government has not drawn up any law that would abolish this unconstitutionality. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, on our part, this is already a third proposal or, as you have said today, a third attempt to implement the Constitutional Court decision and we have not, in the debate itself, found any substantive objections to our proposal or to our proposals to amend the law. Moreover, there was also a version of the government that proposed a similar change. Indeed, the e-democracy portal has a government proposal in public debate, but it is not different from our proposal. Moreover, it essentially allows for some kind of discrimination between private schools, depending on whether or not they run public programmes. Our proposal is that only those private schools that implement a public programme, which is approved on the expert board of the Ministry of Education and approved by the Minister, are 100 per cent funded. So once again, there was no substantive rejection of our proposal in the debate itself, so I propose to the National Assembly or to all coalition parties that this proposal be supported in the first reading and that the process of matters can then be further coordinated, even on the basis of or on the basis that certain criteria for obtaining funds need to be changed. As I said in the debate, these criteria are not the subject of debate in the National Assembly, but the criteria for the recognition of public programmes are adopted by the Council of Experts and the Ministry. So in the SDS Group, we will either confirm or adopt a proposal for an amendment to the Law on the organisation of education and financing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u206	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u207	Today we discussed the financing of public programmes in private schools for several hours. Several hours later, we have already discussed the subject, something that should be self-evident to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court in this country. We talked about some 300,000 euros a year, as I found data for 2014. So 0.4% of the 2.8 million money allocated by the State in 2014 for the total financing of primary education. So about 300,000 euros a year. You know what it reminds me of – of course we will support this law in New Slovenia – what do our discussions remind me of? Many of you know the Farso Hrup behind the stage, Michael Frayn, also played by many fan theatres, where the performance takes place on stage and the main performance takes place in the backstage. And there's real life going on and there's a real fight for money, real love stories and so on. I have a lot of experience myself because I've been directing games for years, and that's how we are here. We are here talking publicly about 300,000 euros, and we all know what's going on in the backstage, we don't know the details, we don't know. Some of the government's clients know what I'm talking about. It saddens me, and it also pains me to hear you talk about these children and these parents who attend these schools as second-rate citizens. To talk about these schools, which have high-quality programs at a very discriminatory level, when we should be proud that we also have such schools in Slovenia and also such teachers who are just trying in their own way. This saddens me deeply, but I think some of us should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u208	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Sending Party of the modern centre of Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u209	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! The organisation and funding of education in the Republic of Slovenia has had a beard for a very long time. Since 1996, in fact, this issue of public and private matters has been about financing and the issue of content, or in other words the acquisition of public validity of educational programmes. But you know, it's not going to solve the problem, because the basic problem lies somewhere else, it's that we have to ask ourselves what we define and understand as public and what we define and understand as private. In doing so, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre has the most important work to do when considering these contents. This is also why very left-handed colleagues on my left and on my right remove us if we are determined to block and so on. We need to discuss what the criteria of public and private are for determining how the education process in the Republic of Slovenia will be carried out in the future. If we only take the financial criterion, then I agree with my colleagues on my left, we don't actually have a private education at all. Because if someone gives me 85% of all the money I need to survive, then I'm dependent on him and somehow owns me in a financial sense. On the other hand, if anyone tells me what content to implement, then he's the one who's mine, I'll say, the intellectual owner. However, if I have the freedom to do so and it is only a matter of the responsibility of the State and of the border to which my freedom will be affected by those who will determine what is now public and what is private, that is a completely different question. And we are thinking about it, we want to think about it, and we want to talk to the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, and that is why we want to continue the debate within the framework of the Constitutional Commission, and at the same time why we will vote against today's proposal by colleagues from the SDS, because, of course, we also have to conclude it today. However, we would like very much, and we are also pleased to discuss funding below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u210	Explanation of voice. First of all, is there another one on behalf of the delegation? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u211	It is a pity that I cannot replicate because I respect the rules of procedure and I know that I have to explain how the Group of Social Democrats will vote. You won't believe it. We'll go against it. We will therefore stand against this: for the first time since there is still a debate on what and how to write down in the Constitution and the amendment of Article 57 is taking place on the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly. Secondly, because we believe that the current financing of private schools is well-managed in the Republic of Slovenia and 85% is quite low enough to allow these private schools to develop their potential. I'll stop here. Two ladies in front of me said their names, and I could replicate them, because I respect both of them, and I'll keep my mouth shut. Of course, we will be against and against the clock today, when we speak in such a way that we say much and say nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u212	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u213	Thank you, President, for your word. I will support the bill myself, because I am one of those who say that even though you do not agree with the individual decision of the Constitutional Court, it is only right that we, as the legislative branch of power, therefore Members, respect it. I will vote for the law because I agree with the announcement made by the Prime Minister of the Government two days ago on one visit: regarding private education, Cerar entrusted the students with the position of SMC that the decision of the Constitutional Court should be implemented without delay. That is why I will support this bill today, because two days ago it is now immediately. All that remains will further delay the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has imposed on us as the legislative branches of the Authority that within one year, this is until the end of 2015, let us settle the matter as decided by the Constitutional Court. I will vote in favour because the decision of the Constitutional Court is simple and an intervention in one sentence of one paragraph of one article. It's so simple! I will vote for this law because, unlike all those who talk a lot about the establishment of a rule of law before the elections, I would also like to put this into effect during the term of office. And I will vote in favour because I want to save the Prime Minister's misery, because he himself wrote, "As a lawyer and as a Prime Minister, I am unhappy because we are late for a constitutional decision." Dearly beloved, I want to save the Prime Minister's misery, to make him as happy as the MPs, to rule in peace until the end, and to have Mira and his coalition partners support the law, which I will also support myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u214	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support this proposal. I will support it because if we look financially, it is more than 10 times less than what higher education professors, including the minister, have charged themselves as an illegal supplement to readiness. Secondly, I will support the fact that two days ago, the President of the Government was in one dedicated place, in the bishop's offices, in the company of Slovenian bishops, and there he solemnly promised that you would do everything possible to settle this matter as soon as possible. If the words of the President of the Government, who has been highly promoted and also given in a symbolic place where such a private school is located, apply neither to the coalition nor to the members of his party or to the party which presides over it, then it is better that we no longer go to parliamentaryism, that we no longer go to government, that you no longer go without knowing what. Then leave it to others who will actually do what they have promised. We are not helped by any kind of word but by any thought of study; we are here to arrange for a solution, in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision and nothing else. That flaking will be done on the Constitutional Commission or on any other occasion. However, it is necessary to settle the matter, and the money is paid by the university professors who have illegally paid it, more than enough, it would be good to get it back, and we will be able to pay for other similar projects, such as the establishment of a Constitutional Court decision and the provision of 100 % private education funding. I'm for that. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] . Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u216	I'm going to make an application. I just have to react to what's going on on the Constitutional Commission. The Constitutional Commission is certainly not intended to flaunt, and as President of the Constitutional Commission, I do not allow myself to be spoken this way. It applies to anyone who in any way diminishes the value of what is happening on the Constitutional Commission. But I'm applying for an explanation of vote on my own behalf. Please sign up. The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u217	Thank you very much, President. I will vote against the proposal. Why? Because I'm going to vote against pears, apples, plums, pineapples, mangoes and so on in the same basket. Because it is necessary to clarify what the criteria are public and what the criteria are private. Once we do so, we will be able to respect that point and also respect the Constitutional Court's decision. Before that, we can't do that. This is the story we stand for, I believe our president and I believe that the entire modern center party. First we have to do this, then we can be refreshed on this basis and, I believe, listen to arguments from anyone who wants to regulate these relations between public and private. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u218	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I will vote for two reasons. The first reason is that the decision of the Constitutional Court must therefore be respected. The other is what this civilization has been making in the first place. The man came to the moon not because we had public education, but because of private education. Today, man lives thirty or forty years longer than he lived in 1850, because competition was in the school system and, according to meritocratic principles, people had the opportunity, the first, the second, the best won and you are living elsewhere today. The third thing is, you all type on the plates. This is from those countries where they have private education, and not from those countries where they have public education. All this, all the inventions, operas, from opera to film art, all of this has been created by man and the Western Civilisation Circle because of the possibility of a different choice, because people could get a different view of the world, and as a result some countries have evolved a few times faster than we have. If your goal is to remain among the least developed countries, then I understand you and I think that, after your actions over the last two years here in the National Assembly, I can say that you are on the right track. I will vote in favour – for development, for competition, for a second choice, for a serious liberal approach, for serious enlightenment and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u220	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I said in the debate, I will, of course, vote in favour of this law, which we have discussed for a long time, as a help in cleaning and thinking I pay the necessary excursion abroad, for example in Celovac. Private education, which is carried out by a state-approved public education programme, is in all respects cheaper for the country than the public school system. Even though this programme would be fully co-financed for all private schools, the cost of building and maintaining school buildings and other operating costs will be eliminated in providing education for its citizens. At the end of the day, this would leave a lot more money for its citizens to spend on either investing in public education, raising standards and standards, paying teachers and the like. Diversity is rich, they say, and this is where the new added value of private education for citizens is added. They suddenly have a more varied choice of what approach to education they want to enable their children, and the final result is a rainbow of educators of different mental concepts and views that complement each other in a society of creative innovation. For it!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u222	Since it's still an interest, I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u223	Thank you. I will vote in favour of the amendment of the ZOFVI law that those private schools implementing the public programme are financed 100%. While Mrs Kustec Lipicer was making a fruit salad today, her minister has apparently already found out what is public and what is private. Indeed, your Minister of your kind has put forward a proposal for a public debate on the amendment of the ZOFVI in this article, which refers to the 100% funding of private schools. Today's meeting proved essentially in the debate that there are quite a few shores, there the SD knows nothing about this or are not in line with the Minister or Coalition, here the SMC members said they are not to equalise public and private education, but at the same time we had a minister here who proposed 100 per cent of private school funding with public programmes. Our proposal follows the decision of the Constitutional Court to finance 100 % of private schools implementing, once again, the public programme adopted by the Ministry of Education at the Professional Council and endorsed by the Minister of Education. In fact, I'm going to say that you might come together, but obviously you don't have any clear concepts, so I find it hard to believe that you will come to this national assembly with your proposal sooner than later, because you said you wanted to talk again, think more, continue to discuss what is public and private. It is certain that you will not comply with this decision of the Constitutional Court in your mandate. I think the Minister's proposal, given today's debate, is more than sand in the eyes. However, the President of the Government said that he did not support the change of constitution and that he found it difficult to believe that this would happen at all because there was no two-thirds majority. Mrs. Kustec Lipicer, stop thinking about talking, but respect the Constitutional Court and do [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u224	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. When this modernist political force or party won the elections, there was a lot of talk about respect for the Constitution, about the rule of law, about new standards. Look, I didn't have to read enough myself to decide why I'd go for it. If I quote an online article, including Mr Mozetič's quote: "Although the number of unfulfilled rulings of the Constitutional Court is not high in the opinion of the President of the Constitutional Court, it has the feeling that politics has been delaying the implementation of decisions over the past two years because it disagrees with them. The latter is very problematic in terms of the rule of law, especially if non-execution is conditioned politically or ideologically." This is, of course, the most important aspect that has affected my decision or will influence it. Secondly, private education is burdening the budget of the local community, which I think is also a very important aspect of decision-making. How many times have amendments been tabled here in the National Assembly for a few thousand euros and we are really arguing. Thirdly, I am on my own to choose for greater competitiveness, to be able to think with my head. Unfortunately, we ourselves have been able to convince ourselves repeatedly in recent days that some schools do not allow it. Last but not least, I am a legalist, and as a Member and representative of the legislative branch, I must respect the Constitutional Court's judgment, and if not, it is best to say "peace, love, God" and also to end Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u226	Is there any other explanation? Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We have already in our debate, or in my own debate, stressed that, of course, I do not want to disrupt the attitude towards private education in relation to public education, which was somehow exposed to conceptual origin in the mid-1990s, i.e. good 30 years ago, and which is, above all, understandable as some kind of substantive enrichment of school space. However, the proposed law, which is pragmatically focused only in terms of the percentage of funding, cannot be supported, which does not mean that I do not wish or respect the decision today. The competent ministry has provided a solution to the amendment of the law currently offered in public debate, at the same time meeting the request of the Constitutional Court for equivalent funding, and at the same time raises many other issues that are very relevant in addressing this topic. This is not how I can support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u228	Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 48. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. It's a day-to-day line of mind-loving things. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a President and members of the National Council for Culture. The proposal to appoint a President and members of the National Council for Culture was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Mr Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u229	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The proposal of five new members, members or one president and four members proposes five very well-established names in the field of culture, representing, if I may say so, very different, some also in several areas of culture. They also have managerial experience in this area and I think that this proposal provides some plurality within this world if you complete it today with these proposals. It has also been observed that some in the past have been politically active, which I hope in the Ministry, but also that the Government does not understand as a flaw or a mistake, but even as a welcome experience. It is also true that in the world, people who know the procedures are parliamentary, governmental, and perhaps better dialogue within the National Council. It is, as it is said, for five well-established names, from archaeology to literature, theatre, puppet theatre, but we already have very high quality music in the world, so I think this proposal is quality and I ask you for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u230	The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the Committee on Elections or the National Assembly, the Government proposed that the National Council for Culture, for the remainder of the term of office set out in the decision of the National Council of 7 July 2006 on the withdrawal of the President and the four members of the National Council for Culture, should be submitted to the National Council for Culture for the remainder of the term of office. 4. 2014 is appointed President of Ursula Cetinski and members of Dr. Andrej Gaspari, Silvan Omerzu, mag. Andrea Richter and Tone Partič. The President of the National Assembly forwarded the proposal under Article 41, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for consideration by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The Act on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture in Article 16 provides, inter alia, that the National Council for Culture is an independent body guiding the national cultural strategy and that the President and the six members are appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of Persons with Public Reputation for a period of five years and may be reappointed. The mandate-election committee discussed the proposal at its 18th session. 4. 2016, in which Mr Anton Peršak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, proposed further explanations and after a discussion was held, on the part of members of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Union Group, the political background of the two candidates was raised, in accordance with the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. On the basis of Article 16, paragraph 16, of the Law on the exercise of public interest in culture and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission decided to appoint the President and members of the National Council for Culture in the following text: The National Council for Culture shall be appointed President Ursula Cetinski, as members of Dr. Andrej Gaspari, Silvan Omerzu, Tone Partljič and Mag. Andrea Richtar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u232	I give my word. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u233	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u234	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I don't know if you've been following closely the presentation of the report of the Mandate-Volution Commission, but let me remind you that there was no one from the Slovenian Democratic Union, no one. So it would be good if the report or the magnetogram were to meet or fix it in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u236	Procedurally, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u237	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Mr Tanko, Head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, I deeply apologize if I have accidentally missed a word which, of course, does not represent representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I do apologize if I have escaped that it was a relationship. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u238	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Dr. Dragan Matić is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u239	Mr President, thank you for saying so. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u240	Right here in the front.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u241	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, we all have a very nice greeting! As already stated by the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, the National Council for Culture is a very important body. It is an independent body whose main task is to guide the national strategy for culture and also has important competences, to monitor and assess the impact of cultural policy on cultural development, and to address, inter alia, the proposals of laws and other cultural rules and those relating to cultural matters. In spite of the legally well-reconcilated tasks, however, it was unfortunately shown that there was no appropriate cooperation of the National Council for Culture with the competent ministry. Five members of the previous reference to the National Cultural Council have resigned because of their dissatisfaction with the way cultural policy is managed, in particular by failing to implement the national cultural programme, which the Minister of Culture has considered to be non-executable and has not yet completed or amended. In the SMC Group, we are aware that fundamental changes are needed in Slovenian culture, which must be made by people who have appropriate professional references and enjoy a great public reputation. With the appointment of new members, we wish to establish a better relationship between the Ministry and the National Council for Culture, which must be based on constructive cooperation. We hope that this will encourage dialogue within the cultural sphere towards a unified approach to implementing the key reforms that are urgently needed in Slovenian culture. As already mentioned, the law clearly states that members of the National Council for Culture must act independently and impartially in their work and must enjoy public reputation. Therefore, at this point too, we clearly reject the concerns about the bias of the proposed candidates who were put forward at the meeting of the Commission on Mandate. The SMC Group will therefore support the decision to appoint a President and members of the National Council for Culture because we are convinced that the proposed candidates are an opportunity to establish a new period which will bring positive changes to Slovenian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u242	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u243	Your Honor! When we appoint new members of the National Council for Culture, we reach into the groin of recent events, which are by no means a cultural struggle, but only a fight in culture. Let us recall the reasons why, last December, most of the members of the National Council for Culture, chaired by the Method of Pevec, resigned. By the way, mentioned and also known by Emotionfilm, which owes the country almost EUR 300,000, which did not constitute an obstacle to the Government and the Ministry to its important role in the field of culture. Besides, it's someone who didn't give up for the first time. In 2013, for example, he left the Presidential function of the Viba Film Council in a similar way. However, regardless of who the members of the National Council for Culture were, and what we think of them, they made their decision because of the irresponsibility or ignorance of President Cerar's warnings and demands. And what was that like? Ministers Juliani Bizjak Mlakar, who came from Desus, before that was a prominent member of the SD, saw the strong political and authoritarian leadership of the cultural ministry, which they thought should be guided by the personality with the appropriate professional orientation and the ability to manage and cooperate. In their view, the resolution of the problems in the Ministry took place in conflict, well-intentioned and constructively critical professional perspectives were left unanswered. The Prime Minister was therefore expected to act and replace the Minister. What followed this call to the Prime Minister Cerar, who was full of difficult and burdensome messages? As a principled, ethical and moral Prime Minister, Cerar did not leave the profession without double criteria and did not respond to those requirements. The Minister remained and most of the members of the Council left, despite the fact that more than 2 000 500 cultural people signed a petition of support to members of the National Council for Culture. They were also supported by the Association of Slovenian Writers, and it is unusual that she is a prominent member of the Association, including Tone Peršak, State Secretary or the right hand of the Minister of Culture, who should be replaced. In all this scandalous event, there was no trace of any cultural protests in the Cankar home or in front of Prešern’s monument. There have also been no entries in the sky about the murder of Slovenian culture. Clearly, in these times, the resignation of members of the National Council for Culture and the appointment of new ones is a completely simple thing, which does not move culturers anymore. Of course not, but why would they, because it's not about the whole thing, it's not about culture, it's about changing elites, it's about changing elites, it's about replacing one another, and the other one makes sure that the first one doesn't miss out. But all of this is paid by taxpayers. But since we're talking about the intestines, let's take a look at it. Not everyone has resigned from the National Council for Culture, and not everyone has agreed to the statement or call of their colleagues, for example, Maestro Uroš Lajovic has distanced himself from everything, because according to his belief the National Council for Culture should act professionally and – watch out! – should not be a political body. And who do we find among the new ones who will then guide the national culture strategy in the National Council for Culture, is called an expert and independent body? Andrey Richter, a prominent member and former SD Vice-President, will later act in this independent body, which is not supposed to be a political body. She was also Minister and Member of Parliament and an SD candidate for mayor. It will also include a policy, former Member of Parliament, Secretary Tone Partljič, also known as a writer in the magazine Europe, the successor of the Communist who came out until 1991 and in which we find a great deal of articles on mocking of self-sustainment efforts and efforts. Let me remind you that Partlich is also known for his resignations. He resigned from the SNG Drama Council because he was dissatisfied. In all of these nebulos, successful cultural creations, which are of course not close to elites, are forced to leave Slovenia and more than successfully market their knowledge elsewhere. All this because of the cultural struggle and the struggle in culture. Unfortunately, Slovenia will continue to receive the cultures of the same directors and must watch the spiritual and separate awards of the Prešeren prizes based on the law since 1991.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u244	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion, so I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the National Council for Culture for the rest of the Council's term of office President Ursula Cetinski and members of Dr Andrej Gaspari, Silvan Omerzu, Tone Partljič and Mag. Andrejo Richter. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move to Consent to the appointment of the Director General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia The Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia shall be governed by Article 74, paragraph 2, of the Health and Health Insurance Act 30. 3. 2016 In agreement with the National Assembly, she forwarded the decision appointing Sam Fakin as Director-General of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Ladislav Rožič, representative of the proposer, Vice-President of the Assembly of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u245	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! On a proposal from the Management Board of the Health Insurance Office, the General Assembly appointed Mr Sam Fakin for the next four-year term of office on 30 March this year with broad support and no votes against. In the appointment process, it is not least necessary to obtain the consent of the National Assembly in accordance with the law. I propose that Members and Members give their consent to the appointment of Mr Fakin, as he has convinced the members of the Assembly both with his work so far and with his programme for the next four-year term of office. Following the example of German and Austrian hospital bills, the institution’s highest authority in the management of the institution is composed of democratically elected representatives of contributors to compulsory health insurance, i.e. employers’ representatives, employees’ representatives, also appointed by the Government among employers, as well as insurance representatives, including workers, pensioners, disabled persons and farmers. The Executive Body of the Assembly shall be the Management Board and the Director-General of the Institute shall be the Management Authority responsible to the Management Board and the Assembly. The function of the Director-General is to guide the professional service of the Institute in the implementation of the compulsory health insurance. It is therefore the Executive Director of the Professional Service, who is also appointed responsible by the highest body of the Institute by the logic of corporate governance, the Assembly. This is the decision of the contributors to the appointment of the Director-General, as 94% of all contributions to the healthcare sector are paid cash by employees, employers, pensioners and farmers. In the spirit of social dialogue and last February's signed social agreement, we expect that social dialogue will also take place here in the National Assembly, including on this agenda item. Only Fakin convinced members of the congregation with his previous results. In 2015, the Institute achieved a balanced financial operation with settled liabilities and no debt. For 11 years now, the Institute has been implementing the fiscal rule set out in the government stability programmes and the decisions of the institution's management bodies. After 2005, when the state budget had cured the cumulative non-covered deficits of previous years, no business year had continued to be a negative business. In 2015, revenues from contributions were higher than 66.4 million since 2014. Thus, revenue growth and efficient management of, in particular, expenditure on health services, medicines, compensation for wages during the period of suspension from work allowed for certain increases in programmes, existing programmes, which also reflected a significant improvement in public health institutions. The operation of the institution is audited annually by the Court of Auditors, which has not yet issued a negative opinion during the term of office since 2007, led by Fakin. In 2015, the Institute also adopted the Strategic Development Programme 2014-2019, which gives a vision, mission, values and indicates the direction of future development of health insurance. It will thus carry out 34 development tasks and 5 development projects. The powers of the institution are certainly extremely limited, as the Assembly needs the consent of the state authorities to take all the key decisions. The very limited autonomy of the institution and limited competence in regulating compulsory health insurance pose significant systemic risks. The members of the Assembly of the Institute were persuaded by Mr Sam Fakin with his work programme for the next term. In his programme, he committed himself, which is extremely important for us, to retain the universal basket of compulsory health insurance rights to establish a dynamic list of health services financed from public funds based on the established methodology for the evaluation of health technologies in the world, he advocated optimal planning and development of public health services, since, in particular, hospital departments, due to the requirements for safe and quality health treatment, should have a sufficient number of patients and should consider a sufficient number of patients. It will seek to establish performance indicators for operators focusing on prevention and screening programmes and the empowerment of chronic patients, in particular in the context of the operation of reference outpatients. He will also warn and strive for a more effective way to manage hospitals, since effective and effective doctors and other health professionals in the system of public servants are not paid according to effect and quality, but after hours or after their presence in the workplace. It believes that there is also a need to strengthen the responsibility of the management of public health institutions for a business outcome and to empower a management that today does not have the right management tools for a successful business. This does not require the privatisation of hospitals, as was the last time – I tried at the meeting of the Commission on Mandate – the parliamentary group misunderstood. Same question [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u246	Please, time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u247	We also gave Mr Fakin what he meant by that, at the assembly, and he explained that he meant the form of bringing together all the supervisory and management functions previously managed by the Ministry of Health and the 26 Councils of the Hospital Department. [[…]] As a result of demographic and non-demographic development trends, it will also support changes in the financing of compulsory health insurance, such as the reduction of differences in the burden of paying contributions between individual debtors, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u248	I really don't want to, but please finish. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u249	is also encouraged that taxes for unhealthy habits such as alcohol, tobacco, sweet drinks are also intended to cover the harmful health consequences of these disorders. [[…]] Your Honor! Members of the Assembly are convinced that it would be irresponsible to leave the office without the Director-General with a full mandate. Under the circumstances, we have chosen the most suitable of the two candidates to be registered. For the sake of all this and in the spirit of social dialogue, I propose to the National Assembly that it agree to appoint Sam Fakin as Director-General of the Health Insurance Office for a new four-year term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u250	If you weren't a guest, I'd take your time. No, it has nothing to do with who he is, but it's about respecting the National Assembly and the timeline we have in it. I now note that the proposal has been treated by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u251	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Honourable representative of the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members! I know it's late, but we're gonna have to put up with you and me for a while. The Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, hereinafter referred to as the Assembly, forwarded the consent to the National Assembly by decision appointing Sam Fakin as Director General of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The President of the National Assembly referred the matter under Article 41, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the Committee of Mandate. The Health and Health Insurance Act in Article 74, paragraph 1, provides that the business authority of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is the director who must have a high professional education and at least five years of work experience. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the same Article, the Director shall appoint a meeting of the Institute in agreement with the National Assembly. In accordance with its powers, the mandate-holder committee considered the relevant decision of the Assembly at its 18th session. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The sessions were attended by President Jože Smole and Mr Ladislav Rožič, who is among us today, as well as by Mr Sam Fakin. Mr Jože Smole, President, further explained the proposal to the Assembly of the Institute and answered the questions raised by the members and members of the Commission in the debate. On the basis of a specific decision, the Mandate-Electorial Commission also gave candidate Sam Fakin the opportunity to present his views and to answer some of the questions raised during the debate on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Since the decision was not adopted by the Management and Electoral Commission at the time of the vote, the Mandate-voluntary Commission therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision on consent to the appointment of the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, which is submitted, should not be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u252	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u253	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. After almost exactly a year, we will re-vote the same candidate for the management of the Health Insurance Institute, Sam Fakin, who will not again appear to be given the confidence of the largest government party of the modern centre. If some of the health SMC priorities in last year's vote were not clear, they have now become very clear. In fact, the modern centre's parties are only a matter of full political control of the health system. We are witnessing virtually everyone's replacements in sacred hospitals, that is to say, at the entire regional or provincial level. Members of the boards of institutions are serially relieved and replaced by SMC personnel and as a result some replacements have already taken place for hospital directors. At the same time, another financial arrangement is concluded between relatives of a SMC political official. But as if it didn't happen, that's how they do it most in the SMC, everything is ethical. The recruitment in Ljubljana's UKC also takes place solely on the basis of the criterion of the confidence of Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc in the candidate. She's the one who publicly exposes herself to the backs that spread through health care, as we like to say in jargon. No matter if there's a breakdown, it's important that the new candidate is also told by the minister that she trusts him. However, this minister does nothing when she learns that she is getting expensive medical supplies a few times. She did not respond to a statement by UKC Director Brigitte Čokl on the Commission for Public Finance Control on the UKC’s current business with Mark Medical at all, and she certainly found that the venous braces were overpaid or overpaid. She didn't propose, she didn't trigger anything, she didn't demand anything; she didn't order any investigation or professional supervision – she doesn't care about anything that's more than interesting. Similar non-response is also present at the Department of Health Insurance: neither the Director nor the Acting Director, Mr Fakin, nor the authorities of the institution which is the payer of all these services have not proposed, activated, demanded anything. It is not known that there would be any complaints to law enforcement authorities, no other procedure for determining liability, no internal commission is known to examine facts or prices and channels. Obviously it is all about positions, serving the lobby and those hidden structures, which in fact controlled not only the Slovenian health system, but the left political scene at all. These structures, which are hidden in Slovenia, according to its property and public treasury, which is also after health, are not much for Slovenians and not for their health. Artificially-induced excesses are what employs the Slovenian public so that they can quietly, through the eyes of the public, under the cover of solidarity and socialism, carry out transfers from public or our common to their private, hidden behind various paradise oasissessesses. Sam Fakin's candidacy will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u254	The text is addressed to Mr Branko Zorman, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u255	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and respectable all those who accompany us! We do not support and will not give further consent to the appointment of Mr Fakin as Director-General of the ZZS in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre for Candidates. Why not? In nine years, since or how long Mr. Fakin is Director of Health Insurance [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u256	Can I have some peace, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u257	, there have been no changes that would be necessary. [[…]] For example, there has not been a change in accounting systems. For example, the 1982 Green Paper is still used to account for services in the specialist field. Mr Fakin has not even proposed a change in the nine years of these accounting models. Furthermore, there is no rationalisation of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, because each district unit has its own director, its own accounting, its own services, which, of course, in itself, says that this is far from rational business, and of course all of these, I will say, the salaries of these employees come from our contributions, because these costs are paid by us who pay the contributions from our personal income. That's what they say. We've had the same network, same organization for nine years. Further, lack of control. I know that we have also had a meeting in the past year on the subject of insufficient supervision of non-essential medical services, which has clearly demonstrated that the CFSP does not exercise or exercise inadequate control in this particular area. It could also be mentioned here that the CFSP does not have sufficient control, for example, to meet the number of employees that a designated health service provider should have in accordance with the general agreement. At the same time, Mr Fakin was never exposed to an absurd situation, such as an absurd situation when you go to an emergency check, for example, to your personal doctor, take your blood, a laboratory check takes place, and in an hour you are in a hospital where you are again taking blood and having another laboratory check. So, the service is paid twice. In Mr Fakin's time, this anomaly did not go away, but you know it's unnecessary. Mr Fakin likes to boast of the surplus and earlier the representative of the board of directors said how the ZZZS acted in a balanced manner, that is to say without loss, but of course it is necessary to know that, in accordance with the law, the ZZZS must operate in essence with a positive zero. And the surpluses that were created were created at the expense of hospitals and were created at the expense of the patients – all of us. What does that mean? If the ZZZS has surpluses, it means that we have on one side of the hospital that is in loss, and we have very long unacceptable waiting periods. That's what we should be most concerned about. I cannot pass the meeting of the Management Board of the ZZZS, which was held on 26 February, and the Chairman of the Management Board of the ZZZS, despite the fact that there was a meeting at the time when the meeting was due to start, the 10 members from 11 were present, under their statute, and, after the 25th Article of the Statute, the Management Board was decided, if the majority of the members present and may vote, not to vote, but to wait for 40 minutes until the 11th member, and finally the vote for Mr Fakin was 6: 5. It is said that far from any convincing or convincing majority. In short, at the Modern Centre Party, we think that Slovenian patients deserve a better health care provider. So, as we have already said, we will not support his appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u258	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A discussion is under way between Mr Ladislav Rožić's representative. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u259	Mr. President, thank you very much. In this function, I am not a member of the board of directors, but I am a member of the assembly, and I must say that there is quite a lack of awareness of the situation in the health register, that we have 25 years of age, that this legislation is extremely restrictive and that the institution in its context cannot perform the function that the Member has spoken of before me. I'd say that about the profits. In last year, only three out of 26 hospitals operated with a deficit of income over expenditure. There's no profits. Throughout the healthcare system, health service providers last year have realised 40 million Euros of surplus. So last year, there were no losses in public institutions, but there were 40 million surpluses and the hospitals were operating positively. Can't you hear it? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u260	Sir, get up if you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u261	In view of the fact that the Institute is under-supervised in health care, according to the law, the Office is responsible for carrying out controls relating to the fulfilment of contracts it has concluded with health service providers. Therefore, it exercises control over only these contracts; it does not have competence over others. On the basis of the findings, the institution recovered for EUR 3 million in 2015 total claims from the current year and the previous year. Thus, this is being done and the institution has also introduced an online application with electronic, including anonymous, allegations of fraud, which seeks to better prevent irregularities, fraud and corruption in the use of public money. Look, we don't care what happens to this money either. Last but not least, if you allow me to claim that the institution does not use the accounting models of the health care financing system. The Institute regularly revises the accounting models, which is ensured because appropriate cooperation with the medical profession is ensured, as reported in the annual reports. Finally, last year we only completely changed, introduced accounting models for the patronage service, home care, specialist and endodontic treatment, community psychiatric treatment at home, and developed a new catalogue with the prices of health services for ultrasound and clinical psychology. What's the problem? The problem is that the most important accounting model for hospitals since 2004 has been under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and the National Institute of Health, so the institution has its hands attached here. The next thing is that the institution has failed to implement internal reorganisation, as the Member of Parliament has stated. I think that the number of employees is decreasing, 7% of employees are less, and I will not talk about internal organisation on the management of the institution, because I am not a specialist and I do not know. As far as I can see, the office is doing fine, people are satisfied with the operation of the institution. Just one more thing, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President. With regard to the purchase of venous braces and other materials. Hospitals provide medicines and materials and other services to external contractors through the public procurement system. Any irregularities or non-economic use of public funds are checked by internal audit: hospital management, hospital board, last but not least by the Ministry of Health and the Court of Auditors. The institution is not the owner and manager of the hospital. In view of this issue, we have also wondered, asked questions in the congregation, what is going on with these resistors, and the fact is the following. We have taken the initiative that hospitals should be audited on a regular basis every year by the Court of Auditors, which we have given a public initiative and we have expressed this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u262	This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly agrees to appoint Sam Fakin as Director General of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The PSC proposes not to adopt the proposal. We're voting. I'm breaking up. I'll explain it one more time, slowly. So the National Assembly proposes the following or we vote on the following decision: The National Assembly agrees to appoint Sam Fakin as Director General of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance. Then an explanation, a proposal made by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission: The Mandate-Voluntary Commission proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt a proposal for a decision. Is that clear? [[advertising from the hall]] We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. Who's in? [[Six members.]] Who's against it? [[52 members.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr Mitja Horvat, President of the Mandate-Election Commission, as representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u263	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Members. On the basis of Articles 36 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly at its 18th session, the Commission shall be appointed by the European Parliament. 4. 2016 sets out the proposal for a decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the RTV Slovenia Act. The proposal has been established by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission in accordance with the provisions of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph relating to the seventh paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. Article 17, paragraph 6, of the Law on RTV Slovenia provides that sixteen members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council shall appoint the National Assembly on the proposal of viewers and audiences of RTV Slovenia, universities and colleges, associations of associations or their organisations, in particular in the fields of art, culture, science and journalism and other civil society organisations, with the exception of political parties and their organisational forms. The conformity of the candidates and the fulfilment of the conditions shall be demonstrated by the evidence provided for in the text of the call. The seventh paragraph of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia further provides that half of the members of the seventh indent shall be appointed simultaneously with the appointment or election of the members referred to in the first to sixth indent of the preceding paragraph and the second half of the members shall be appointed two years later. Since a number of journalistic questions have arisen, allow me to explain something that happened during and during the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We've received 64 proposals for 37 candidates. Of 37, one was filed too late, and 12 were incomplete. Six missing statements 4.2 A, B and C of the public call, which was published. In three cases the place of birth is missing, in one case the employer or the job is missing, in one case the address of the viewer and the listener who proposes is missing and in one case the address of the candidate’s permanent residence is missing. At the meeting of the Mandate-Election Commission itself, of course, it was offered that we could discuss not getting any insight into the bureaucratic or bureaucratic process, but no debate had taken place, so we have ruled out in all cases, and my intention today to present this event is that in future the applicants will look after what is said in the public call and that, in line with the public call, they will also make proposals to the National Assembly. On the basis of the vote, we have then also voted at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, with which we propose to propose to the National Assembly that, on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia, Slovenia be named: Branka Bezeljak, Aloj Bogataj, Damir Orehvec, Matevž Podjed, Mitja Rotovnik, Domen Savič, Jaroslav Skrušný and Miran Zupanič. [[...]] We also propose that the members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council begin to perform 16. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u264	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u265	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, everyone! The Programme Council, in which today the National Assembly appoints 8 members, proposed by representatives of civil society and, of course, elected a ruling coalition, is an institution formed among the first Janša government by adopting the so-called Grims Act on RTV Slovenia. This marriage is not good. This has proved to be more than clear in the last ten years. This law was created without the involvement of the professional public and without public debate. In the typical manner of SDS, Mr Grims himself wrote the Law with press errors and missing branches, as he later publicly admitted. The operation and method of selecting the Programme Council is just one example of this. I will not define myself here until the specific names of the candidates, nor have there been a speech at the hearing of the Mandate-Electorial Commission on candidates. The names were written on a sheet of paper, and the coalition, of course, surrounded its own. The way the Programme Council reflects society is evidence that there are currently only 5 women among the 29 members of the world. Even this time, the choice won't fix it. There's only one woman among the eight candidates. The United Left will abstain in voting on candidates, and we note that RTV Slovenia will be able to provide public interest only when all the problems that the current RTV Act has brought are freed. When this was adopted, the professional public, both domestic and foreign, made clear the possibility that the law would allow a number of ways through which it could exert pressure on public television. We can most clearly imagine this if we look at the key of the programming board. One representative is proposed by the Italian and Hungarian national communities, which is, of course, fair, one representative proposes the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, two proposals by the President of the Republic. The employees of RTV Slovenia propose only three representatives. We're at this point at 8 out of 29. Who calls the others? The National Assembly. And right here is the biggest problem. The fact that 21 of the 29 members of the Assembly of State, that is, every time a ruling coalition, is sufficiently talkative in itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u266	The word is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, for which Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u267	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, everyone's welcome! RTV Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national interest, which performs public service in the field of radio and television activities. The purpose of this institution is to provide different needs for democratic, social and cultural, both for Slovenian citizens as well as for Slovenians around the world and for national minorities. The principles of public and transparency are important elements in the management of RTV Slovenia, which also provides a way of appointing members of its programme board. It consists of 29 members who are named for different purposes in accordance with the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. 16 members are appointed by the National Assembly, as has been said, of this half at the same time as the elections of other members of the Programme Council and the other half two years later. This time, too, only 8 candidates have been identified by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Members of the Programme Council must carry out their work independently and impartially and even if they represent different social interests and needs, they must be consistent with the interests of RTV Slovenia. In doing so, it is vital that members, with their knowledge, reputation, or achievements on cultural, educational, or other aspects of social life, contribute to the good functioning and strengthening of the reputation of public television. We must not overlook that this procedure contains specialities, namely that proposals are not formed in the National Assembly, but in civil society. Audiences, audiences, colleges, cultural and artistic organisations and some other civil society organisations are those who propose who would be an appropriate and appropriate member. The National Assembly may nominate only those candidates who have been proposed by various social groups of the institution and the organisation and in the National Assembly, Members and Members of the Parliament shall be informed of these proposals and shall vote on the appointment. Of course, there is also a need to reach as broad a consensus as possible on these candidates. That, despite different views, this is possible, we have demonstrated at the previous meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission. Members of the SMC Group and Members of the SMC Group believe that the applicants, such as the competent institutions, organisations and individuals, have chosen the appropriate candidates, so we trust the applicants in this choice of candidates. The SMC Group will therefore support the decision to appoint eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u268	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u269	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of Article 36 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at its 18th session, on 14 April 2016, the Commission decided on the proposal for a decision appointing eight members of the Programme Council of Radiotelevision Slovenia on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. This indent of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia states that the National Assembly, on a proposal from viewers and listeners of RTV Slovenia, universities and colleges and associations, associations of associations or their organisations, in particular in the fields of art, culture, science and journalism and other civil society organisations. So these quotas are exempt from political parties, so they're supposed to be non-political members, that is, non-political people. The suitability of candidates for compliance shall be demonstrated by the evidence set out in the text of the call. Let me say, as the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission has said, that due to the failure to meet the conditions and everything else was on the list, I think 24 candidates out of 37 and that all eight candidates had to receive ten votes or more than 19 members of the Commission. So on this Mandate-Election Commission we have selected 8 candidates, some of them known as political names, i.e. Mr Mitja Rotovnik, Permanent Director of the Cankarje Home, Head of the Commission for Culture at the Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Slovenia during the SFRJ and so on. It is very interesting, for example, Mr Domen Savič, because you judge people and their values according to their twitter profiles, because this has also been a debate for the last two months, I will quote a few tweets from your candidate, Mr Domn Savič, for the programming advisor of RTV Slovenia. As a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I apologize to the Slovenian public, so I quote Mr Domn Savic, 22. Ten. 2015: "Put on the same ballot as the same marriage, taxing the church, and let's see you bitches of clerotaliban." At the time of the last campaign: "Just this. And faking to win over the clerotalibans." On February 24, 2016, Mr Savič's next tweet, I quote: "Try to enliven yourself in a woman who chooses to give birth, and then on her way to the doctor stands a ploy, which roars at her and waves with the cross." On October 30, 2015 again tweeted Mr Savic: "Once again, bitches are not Catholics. They're not believers. They're not right-handed. There are people who would beat a minority by the voice of the majority." Continued, 11. 4. 2016: "Sometimes I think Okorn is making films just so he can shit on the media in Slovenia." So, the sequel and more and more. Finally, March 25th: "Kill the Clerophasists. I hope the Clerophasists are in the minority." These are the values, these are the moral and ethical values of the Modern Centre Party. What's with the modern center's clients? The same day that Mr Domen Savič was voted on by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, Jani Möderndorfer, a member of the Modern Centre's Group of the Party, who also teaches me and all my colleagues for two months on the appropriateness of tweets and retweets and also on the techniques of tweets and retweets, said that day about Mr Savič: "I have no problems with Savič, in the Council of RTV need freshness and serious sharpness to be added to this candidate." According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the opinion of the values of the civilized nations, we will not support this conclusion, of course, because we believe that there is still a majority of people in Slovenia who pay RTV daily contributions and who cannot and cannot agree with such candidates. So we're not going to support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u270	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We are therefore talking about the appointment of eight members of the RTV Programme Council, which should be proposed by civil society, by listeners and viewers. However, if we look more closely at the background of these candidates, or in their poultry, then we can see that we have mainly candidates who are politically bound to the left political option, but of course they are proposed to the Programme Council under the cover of civil society. So we have a person who is an active member of the Social Democrats and has also run on the list of SDs for the City Council, and then under the cover of the Programme Council was proposed by viewers and listeners. Then we have a gentleman who was the candidate of Desus for the early State Elections in 2011, we have a gentleman coming from Maribor, is the City Councillor of the Modern Centre Party, which is proposed by the Ljubljana Association of Friends of Youth. Then we have someone, or we have a former journalist and a gentleman, who directs or speaks to advertisers in which they can advertise, in which they can't. This gentleman is quite offensive on social networks, but as such he obviously belongs and fits into the concept of the current coalition, especially in view of all those high ethical, moral standards. We also have a gentleman who has extremely good connections with the former President of the State, Mr Milan Kučan. Mr Milan Kučan even referred to this gentleman as a very loyal friend. No wonder he has all the functions in this country, almost all the functions, he will now, of course, also take up a function in the programming world. This person also has very good relations with Mr Zemljaric and with Mr Kocijanic. He is also the undisputed minister of culture in the left governments; in short, he is a top politically profiled man. This plastic presentation of these candidates or the political pedigree of the candidates was needed in order for the people accompanying us today to know that the appointment of members of the RTV Programme Council is not accidental, but that it is a matter of careful political choice for individuals under the cover of civil society. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u272	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u273	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm not taking the precious five minutes, I expect your answers. You went to the polls as moral-ethical individuals, and we weren't all in the last election. I think that in my opinion, so in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, a colleague of Irgle's told you who you chose, we can say a former communist elite who has always been in positions that were sociopolitical. This list looks something like it used to be here 25 years ago — that Assembly of United Work about, hidden somewhere after some unions, and after some companies, it never went seriously to the elections. Among them is the unsuccessful candidate of Desus, as said by a colleague, SD party, SMC, city councillor and so on. Unfortunately, I hope that there is not a whole civil society in the culture of art, science hidden with such individuals, and this is this display of what you come from, these are your idols, most likely. That's your view. It's part of you, those individuals. They're the ones you profile with. And I'm gonna end it. I'm not going to continue with my argument, I'm going to leave extra time for you to give me counter-arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u274	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u275	Thank you, President, for your word. A lot has already been said by my fellow Members, but allow me when you press the button and support this new composition of eight members of the programming world – some of you are already laughing in advance, you probably know what I'm going to say – let me remind you of something. Today, on the basis of yesterday's debate, you passed the Discrimination Act. In this National Assembly you have convened a meeting due to one tweet, you have convened a committee meeting due to hate speech, and today you will appoint a person to the Program Council of Public RTV Slovenia, who in the cruelest, for my terms, is spreading hate speech. Do you know why these are double criteria? Otherwise, you might think that some people don't know what they're doing, but you know very well, some of you are with him right now, right now, this moment on Twitter, because he's asking you when the vote is going to be, and you're answering him what time it's going to be, and before that, you've congratulated him on his election last week. So much for independence! So much for hate speech and so much for tweeting sessions. Please, at least never again. Have your own programming board, just please, for the public's sake, never again. Otherwise, in my own way, I welcome what you will accept today, including Mr Mitja Rotovnik, founder of Forum 21. Let the right name be given its places and be formally decided by those who make decisions at all times. Come on, let's go, let's We all know that, and you all know that. Little Kocijancič, then comes Mr. Rotovnik, someone else in between, and things are going as you imagined. But you know, nothing will help you, so much as the bullying that some parties, especially the Slovenian Democratic Party, have been trained, will help to make things happen later than before in the elections for you, and I will tell you about the cruel fact, about the citizens and about the citizens in some way of salvation. Once again, I stress, vote for your programming world, you have a majority, for which you have an ethical and moral election, but do not speak ethically and morally about hate speech. No, no, please, never again!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u276	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u277	Thank you, everyone. That's a good-bye! When it comes to the RTV Slovenia Act, my colleague from the United Left introduced me so well with the law, he forgot to say that the law was confirmed twice at the referendum and that it holds the world record, because you will not find such a case in any other legislative body to deal with it. What is interesting and relevant today is that this law is not implemented. It's a great marriage. If journalists and journalists respected Article 5, for example, Mrs Carl, then such acts as we have witnessed could never appear on RTV Slovenia, because this article commits to respect for human integrity, respect for constitutional principles and respect for journalistic ethics. Of course, such contributions are a stain on all of this. Well, what is relevant to this, which we are deciding today, of course, is that you, too, are a vehement violation of the law, because the law in Article 17, paragraph 1 says, can also be elected to the Programme Council by persons who, I quote, "with their knowledge, reputation or achievements in cultural education or any other area of social life, contribute to the good functioning and strengthening of public television in both the Republic of Slovenia and abroad". And you came here today with something that is the right strawberry choice – the red berries themselves. And let's look at one of them, how it will strengthen, quote again, "the reputation of public RTV both in the Republic of Slovenia and abroad". By appointing fellow citizens of the kruts and fellow citizens of the clerophasists and clerotalibans of some other, even more dirty terms he uses, which I would rather not repeat. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what you suggested, that you said it was a new freshness, quote SMC, on RTV Slovenia. With all due respect, ladies and gentlemen, this is only one thing that is divisive – your endless double criteria. At the same meeting, ladies and gentlemen, you proposed two laws; one with which you overturned the referendum decision; and the other with the aim of protecting equality. Please! And you're proposing nebulosis in the basic law, and I don't know, I don't know about punishment, but I don't know what looks like if someone doesn't — what happened? – and you will punish this on behalf of the protection of freedom of public speech and the fight against hate speech. And you mentioned the hate speech in four other laws that were now in the process. What a duplicity! The fight against hate speech in words, but in deeds you attach to it; for what is hate speech? The hate speech is the dehumanization of another person and then the justification for why it would be acceptable or even necessary. Mr Domen Savič in his tweets and posts, which he does on Facebook; you offer him as a new wind. I believe that this new wind will catch up with, say, Mrs Eugenia with some, because unfortunately it is not the only one there. But I'll tell you again, and you're in violation of Article 5 of the law, just like you did Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. And you're doing it consciously. Under cover of the fight against hate speech, you are only fighting the fight against freedom of the public word, because nothing goes more to the left-wings than the liver, nothing gets them into more panic than the truth, like a free public word. However, to be aware of how or how valuable your destruction of democratic institutions really is, this is your vehement violation of laws, if you want from the problem of migrants to RTV, but you have shown yourself today, because it is difficult to believe that on the same day it is a coincidence that you have made such a shameful proposal as this, and before this vote everyone has passed the law on equality or opportunity and so on, on the other hand, your services have also proposed and said that a new modern prison by 2020 will grow up in Bizovic near Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u278	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u279	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, before that, in one of the positions that were related to the appointment of a candidate for the management of the Health Insurance Institute, I pointed out the things that are happening in the world health institutions, because this devastating wave is going on all over Slovenia and people are being replaced in sacred institutions and, as a result, directors. There's nothing else in this case. If a normal coalition had the ambition to make a relatively balanced human resources proposal for the RTV Programme Council, it would probably also ask the biggest opposition party what she thinks and what she would suggest. This is what we have done in previous mandates. We understand that the opposition cannot, even when it comes to a set of viewers and listeners, choose everything by choice, but the coalition cannot. But obviously, in this term, everything is simply done by simply going over. The problem is so much more so that even in the part where the RTV authorities were involved and when we were recruited by law under the quota of parties or sent groups, whether it was a programming council or a supervisory council, you did not accept any of the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposals. Not one. You have out of ten, three or three of whom were named new to the programming world, you have recruited three from the coalition, in fact all from the SMC. But the other problem is that you are constantly teaching us about our culture of performance, speech and so on, respect for the Constitution, human rights, and, on the other hand, you are doing the consciously opposite. What you're reading to us, you're doing. What you're reading to do to me, you're doing. Because it is actually impossible to prepare such a set of members for the RTV Programme Council as you have actually prepared it. You've obviously been gathering people who are most radical, who are most concerned with the rights of others who humiliate others when you put them on the RTV Program Board. And obviously in this case, we're not going to be able to talk about national television anymore, but we're going to talk about SMC television. So far, as far as implementation is concerned, I do not know, the parliamentary programme, as well as the implementation of regular programming content, has been adapted to all the left-wing policies and scenes. Now you will make full SMC authorities also on RTV, if necessary, you will fix any other director a little bit and cancel and so on and we will get SMC public broadcasting, which will be paid by everyone who has an electrical connection or an electric counter. You've done this now with this proposal. And now to talk about equality, about respect for constitutional provisions, about respect for the law, about which criteria and values are completely unrelated. Tell those who voted, Mr Horvat is the President of the Commission on Elections, what drew him, say Domn Savič, and your Head of Parliament voted on this. What attracted you to this person so much that you supported her so much as a candidate for the Programme Council? On the other hand, you are monitoring, tirelessly monitoring, our communication with your public and calling meetings of the Committee on Culture in the National Assembly. That's a lot of gear. I will certainly not support this proposal, but it would also be good if any of the coalition Members today at least justified their decision for, say, some candidates. Apparently it is a complete politicisation of the largest cultural house in Slovenia. This will be SMC TV from now on.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u280	This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision appointing eight members of the Radio Television Programme Council of Slovenia on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Act of Slovenia. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Law on RTV Slovenia, if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending the Decision establishing the Broadcasting Council The proposal for a decree was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On 3 March 2016, a public invitation was issued to candidates for members or members of the Broadcasting Council. The mandate-holder committee has issued a public call for candidates for one member or one member of the Broadcasting Council to be appointed for the remainder of the term of office instead of a member whose term of office is terminated. Let me say that the Broadcasting Council has seven members appointed by the National Assembly on the basis of a public call. Candidates in the field of law, telecommunications and information technology, audiovisual culture, economics, journalism and communication may make themselves public. The members of the Broadcasting Council may not, however, be officials, Members and workers employed in national authorities, members of political party management, employees who are regularly employed by a broadcaster or a television broadcaster or an advertising organisation, persons who, as external participants, have a contractual relationship with a broadcaster or a television broadcaster or an advertising organisation, persons who own more than 1% of the capital or administrative or voting rights in the possession of the broadcaster's radio or television programme or in an advertising organisation. The Commission therefore adopted the Decision establishing the Broadcasting Council and appointed Sam Šter as a member. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support this appointment and we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u282	We have concluded by presenting the position of the Group of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a regulation amending the Decision establishing the Broadcasting Council, by which Mr Samo Šter is appointed as a member for the remainder of the Council's term of office. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 47 votes against and 13. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the council has passed the decree. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of vascular restraints. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the draft decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes in favour and none in favour. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the determination of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to amend the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes in favour and none in favour. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of a Vice-President of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. The proposal for a decision is prepared on the basis of amendments to the Decision on the establishment of the number of seats of Members' groups, working bodies and the National Assembly and on the establishment of parliamentary groups belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly of 15 April 2016 and the proposal of the Contingent Group of the Modern Centre. The draft decision was published on the e-club. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of a Vice-President of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code under the ordinary procedure. On Tuesday 19 April 2016, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly made the proposal of the law inconsistent in the second reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Maritime Code. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been taken.I hereby conclude this item on the agenda. I am adjourning the 18th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
