ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Marija Bachič, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Ksenija Krenjak Kramar, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, mag. Ange Logar, Mrs. Jan Škoberne, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Matjaž Hanžek, Miha Kordiš, Mr. Jan Mahnic, Mr. Matjaž Germany, Mr. Marko Ferluga until 11.30, Luka Mesec between 15 and 17 hours, Mr. Tillen Bozič until 13:00 and Mr. Marjan Dolinšek I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to five. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxis in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration mag. Tanya Rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u2	Nicely greeted! Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Basic Law on Administrative Fees was adopted in 1999 and a more extensive amendment to this Act was adopted in 2010. At this time to this day, a number of amendments affecting this law and the basic reasons that led us to the proposed amendments and amendments to the law in question are primarily aimed at greater protection of legal certainty, effective cooperation between authorities and parties and other bodies and institutions in the transparency of operation and equal treatment or elimination of unequal situations. The amendments to the proposed amendment of the law can be divided into three groups. The first set consists of amendments relating to substantive regulations, to the content of the Administrative Fees Act and its annex, such as tariffs, which affect a number of substantive rules determining the content of legal acts and documents on the basis of which the Administrative Fees Act determines the administrative fee or the amount thereof. Here we go, say, for the Land Book Act, the Travel Documents Act, the Personal Card Act, the Road Traffic Safety Act, the Construction Act and others. Since the last amendment of the Act, there have been changes to several of these substantive provisions, which has led to a lack of consistency in the regulation of the area in question in the law or in the tax rate, so the amendments and additions to the Administrative Fees Act mainly reflect compliance with these amendments and additions. The second set is a clearer regulation or recording of individual existing provisions in the Administrative Fees Act. From the question of the authorities which are committed to the application of this law, we have received quite a few initiatives where the individual provisions are less clear and the provisions can be interpreted differently. Nevertheless, we want to point out that these cases are becoming less and less each year. Nevertheless, we have made sense of the opening of the law in order to address the uncertainties that allow for a different interpretation. In particular, matters relating to the appellant's authority, the exemption from the payment of a fee, the reimbursement of an administrative fee and the determination of the property status of such debtors. This leads, in our view, to greater legal certainty and to faster guidance or decision-making in these procedures. The third set is changes relating to the amount of the administrative tax on ageing and exemption from administrative fees. At the time of the last changes, the need to change the size of individual tax numbers has arisen. In individual cases, however, this height is rounded up due to easier accounts. In amending the law, we propose an extension of the absolute deadline for limitation to 10 years, which was earlier than 4 years. In doing so, we want to make it possible to recover taxes more effectively and more effectively in this area, while the relative limitation period remains the same as it is now for two years. Despite the restrictive introduction of new exemptions, we add some additional exemptions from Articles 94 and 28 of the existing law. These are cases of organised mobility of the Erasmus programme, documents and actions relating to the implementation of fisheries policy for all legal persons of private law, procedures for the approval of the status of organisations in the public interest and so on. At the time of public disclosure, the proposal for a law was not of great interest. We have received only two comments, proposals. In doing so, we were able to take into account the CVNOS’s comment aimed at equalising all non-governmental organisations irrespective of their legal organisational form. After the adoption of the law in the Government, following the adoption of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the law is also in line with the amendments adopted by the Committee. If the conditions of the Government are met, it is proposed that the second and third proceedings be held in this law at the same meeting. Given that the content law is consistent with all stakeholders and is also nominally harmonised, we propose that the law be supported. To conclude, I would just add a brief look at the amendment tabled. But I'd like to finish here, and then maybe I'd like to continue in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. I give the floor to the president for the presentation of the Committee's report, Mag. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor, Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 18th regular session on 5 June. 4. 2016 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Fees submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on national regulation. The representative of the proposer, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Public Administration, pointed out in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposal in the first set contains the harmonisation of the area of administrative fees with the established other laws. In the second part, however, the novelties refer to a clearer regulation of certain provisions of the law, in particular those whose actual application has demonstrated a risk of different interpretations. However, the third set of amendments and the amendment of the law amends the amount of certain fees on the basis of the results of the reassessment of the complexity of individual administrative procedures. Roundings for easier accounting and extending the absolute maturity of claims for unpaid administrative fees. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the comments referred to the necessary minor harmonisation within the draft law, which were duly coordinated with the amendments tabled by the members of the Coalition. National Councillor Rajko Fajt reported that the State Council Commission for National Regulation supports the proposal of the law and that the members of the Commission in particular support all simplifications contained in the proposal for a law and greater clarity of procedure. The bill contains solutions that will address identified shortcomings in procedures and reduce decision-making procedures and thus increase legal certainty. The Commission supports restrictiveness in establishing new exemptions for the exemption of legal fees and all proposed changes in this area are considered appropriate. There was no debate between Members and Members, there were no members of the Committee, and the Committee finally decided on the amendments and on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you so much for the president's words. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We are starting the April session after yesterday's parliamentary issues by addressing the amendment of the Law on Administrative Fees. The novelty is not extensive, at least not from the point of view of the articles, but it is important because it deals with existing, interlinked laws due to administrative fees imposed by the authorities under different administrative procedures. The bill's proponent stated in the explanatory memorandum that in practice there is a risk of different interpretations or interpretations of the law, but that in practice there is less per year. However, in the practice of the functioning of the State authorities, in particular administrative units and ministries, individual uncertainties have been noted and further forwarded as comments, with a view to removing them. One of these comments concerns the provisions on reimbursement of fees. The following is a comment on a clearer definition of the conditions and deadlines for lodging a request for reimbursement of fees. An important part of the novelty concerns the tariff part. The amount of certain fees shall be changed on the basis of the results of the re-assessment of the complexity of the individual administrative procedures or costs to be incurred by the authorities which have to charge the fees. The amount of certain tax items shall be rounded up, including from the point of view of the ease of operation of the competent authorities. It is important to point out that it is rounded down. However, the absolute deadline for the limitation of claims against unpaid tax items is extended, allowing for more efficient recovery of fees. We are aware that these are the taxes that citizens have to pay in their dealings with national authorities. And we'd all like to be relieved of administrative fees. In some ways, however, it must be understood that the funds collected for administrative fees constitute the income of the authorities for the work done. The law also allows for exceptions. The law states in more detail who does not pay the tax, in which cases the taxpayers are exempt from paying fees and which documents are exempt. After careful consideration, we have decided in the Group of Social Democrats that the law is important and we will also support it in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u7	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Administrative fees are supposed to be a contribution covering the costs of the administrative authority that manages and decides on the administrative procedure, but the fees have been more focused on the budget of the State and the municipalities than on that basic purpose for some time, and this time it is no different. In the United Left, we believe that the Ministry should deal only with the issue of administrative procedures. Nothing has changed in this respect. The Minister still devotes most of his time only to austerity measures, although it is quite clear that seven-year continuous savings in the public sector have a purely negative impact. With the constant search for additional savings, the Minister for Solutions, which would speed up all the overly liberalised administrative procedures, obviously does not find the time. All we have seen in this area so far has been the reckless, uncoordinated and potentially unconstitutional novelty of the General Administrative Procedure Act. It was a stunt that even the coalition gave up. Moreover, its main purpose was not to shorten or simplify procedures. The objective was, as usual, only financial savings, in this case at the expense of citizens and citizens through the proposal to end personal service. The Minister's promises in a country that is supposed to be at the service of its citizens are thus quickly divulged with each proposal. Even with the amendment to the Law on Administrative Fees, it's no different. It is likely that there is no citizen or citizen who would not experience walking from window to window from body to body and collecting certificates or evidence to be attached to any application or request. And unfortunately, it's still happening. And that's exactly the problem the minister should be dealing with. We live in the information age. There is more money in the budget to inform public administration, but it is still too much to walk today from window to window, from body to body. In view of the resources allocated by the State for information, this should no longer be the case. On the one hand, every citizen should have a simple view of the documents relating to him and, on the other hand, an automatic exchange of all information between authorities should be ensured under the administrative procedure. These are the solutions for shortening and de-de-barcing administrative procedures. We have also proposed some solutions in this direction to the amendment under consideration in the United Left. One of the solutions, for example, which would certainly mean decommissioning both the authorities and the parties involved in the procedure, referred to the reimbursement of the overpaid fee. The current arrangement is such that the body pays an overpaid fee automatically only if the overpaid amount is higher than €18. However, if the amount is lower, the party must submit a request for reimbursement, the authority must assess whether the request is justified if the complaint is lodged and carry out a procedure relating to it. In the United Left, we are convinced that such an arrangement makes no sense. It may seem to be a trifle, but exactly a hundred such bureaucratic trifles is the reason for the proposals of the administrative procedure and the unwillingness of the parties. This is how we proposed with the amendment that any overpaid fee be returned automatically without a specific procedure and requirement. The Authority would decide, in its decision on the matter, whether or not to reimburse the fee, without any additional work for the official and without any additional work for the client. The coalition, of course, rejected the amendment. As an argument, however, it stated that the regulation had been so far, and therefore did not see the need for a change. It sees, on the other hand, the need to amend the need for such exemptions, namely that such exemption for certificates from official records shall be lifted. Such an exemption that we have known for more than 10 years. In the United Left, we oppose the imposition of a tax and propose deleting it with the amendment. At the same time, we find it unacceptable that the introduction of a tax should be proposed with an argument that this would sanction the demeaning attitude of citizens and citizens towards the instruments already issued. Given that this is an arrangement we have known for more than 10 years and that there is no need for change, we expect that the amendment will also be supported by the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u9	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u10	Dear Presidents, fellow Members and fellow Members! The charges are therefore the monetary revenues of the State and one of the essential features is that the obligation to pay a fee is not limited to the nationals of the State which prescribes such an obligation, but is subject to a territorial principle in the case of fees. And since the Administrative Fees Act was last amended in 2010, since then a number of substantive rules have changed, today's proposal for substantive amendments and the tariff part of the law is welcome and necessary. Therefore, in New Slovenia we welcome the introduction of additional exemptions for administrative fees, in particular those relating to exemptions for poor property status. For this reason, the authority which decides in the finding procedure to exempt it must verify, on an official basis, the data on the fulfilment of the conditions for exemption. The extension of the absolute limitation period for the recovery of an administrative fee of four to ten years also means more than one possibility for the procedures to be actually completed. However, we are concerned that this will not be a reason to prolong the conduct of these procedures or to slow down the work of the administrative authorities. If enforcement procedures against such a debtor are to be extended even after ten years, this will be evidence that it is not too short a time, but rather the poor and ineffective work of the administrative authorities. The fact that only in 2014 out of 381 cases resolved has there been an expiry of 70 procedures and thus a failure to pay administrative fees is indeed worrying. In addition, in New Slovenia, we are convinced that the only reason for this is not the current limitation period for higher revenues, from this title the enforcement procedures will have to be successfully completed within as short a period of time as possible. Any remedying of the shortcomings of the current law is therefore good if, of course, it pursues the objective of greater transparency and efficiency. Administrative procedures are extremely important in terms of the functioning of the State apparatus in the field of the performance of its tasks, and it is therefore right that citizens receive what they expect and are entitled to. And it is only right that we pay a certain tax for what we receive by law. From this point of view, any obsolescence, even if it is merely an outdated recovery of the administrative fee, is unacceptable. For these reasons, of course, New Slovenia's proposal for a new law will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u11	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u12	Dear President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support the amendment of the Law on Administrative Fees, for the following reasons: as it eliminates the non-compliance of the regulation of the law itself and its annex, that is to say the tax rate with the already established substantive rules of the laws. It brings simplifications, brings greater clarity of procedures, but also contains solutions that will address shortcomings in procedures and, of course, reduce decision-making procedures, it also clearly defines the Board of Appeal, the provisions for reimbursement of overpaid fees, and, very importantly, define a finding procedure to meet the conditions for exemption from administrative fees due to poor property status, also increases legal certainty, some tariffs, the cost proportionality of the procedure are also harmonised, introduces some new exemptions, which we also welcome, increases profitability, in particular due to an increase in the absolute maturity of four to ten years. The harmonisation is therefore justified by the above-mentioned facts, and we can even claim the necessary, much more so, because the material rules, which have changed substantially since the last amendment of this Act since then, lay down the content of administrative documents, procedures and also prescribe administrative fees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The purpose of the Administrative Fees Act is to pay a fee in respect of documents and acts of administrative and other public law matters as a cost incurred by the authority to carry out a particular procedure. Such a principle and purpose of the law is known by most countries, but it stems from the so-called social contract that our ancestors have long since signed and established a country as an institution to perform certain tasks for them and for us today. We understand the social contract as an agreement on how we will live, and it is one of the foundations of democracy. We once understood the country as a coerced institution, but today it is increasingly understood as a service for the benefit and for the needs of the people. However, people have decided, through their representatives in Parliament, to provide for the costs incurred for these services. In the SMC Group, social justice is important, which is incorporated into this law by setting exceptions for those who, of course, cannot pay. Thus, we have entities that do not pay taxes at all, entities that are fully exempt from fees, entities that do not pay taxes due to poor property conditions, these are all recipients of cash aid, recipients of a security allowance, disability benefits and all those who are not receiving such an allowance in such circumstances and can prove it in the process. Certain charges are also exempt and documents of such social importance that their importance is significantly greater than the payment of costs. Social justice means that the burden of the costs of those unable to pay is borne by all those who are in favourable circumstances of property and give it additional weight and proposes the introduction of new additional exemptions, namely for students from third countries who are recipients of a grant of the Republic of Slovenia or are participants in organised mobility in EU programmes, Erasmus Plus or are coming to exchange in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of an inter-university agreement, for documents and actions relating to the issue of the first residence permit due to study. There is widespread exemption for applications and other documents and actions relating to the implementation of measures not only to agricultural policies but also to fisheries policies. There is widespread exemption for documents and actions in the exercise of rights recognized by law to disabled persons, war veterans, victims of war violence, including victims of post-war violence. Exemption from the payment of documents fees and acts relating to the authorisation of the status of the organisation in the public interest and to the exercise of an activity in the public interest shall also be introduced for legal persons of private law. So far only companies have been granted this, only in relation to actions to recognise their status. This will, of course, also benefit private institutions, institutions and cooperatives on the basis of fire laws, freshwater fishing, protection against natural and other disasters, environmental protection, public interest in the field of culture, animal protection and the promotion of the development of tourism. In the SMC Group, we will support the proposal for a law because of the objectives it pursues, which is to further protect tangiblely weak individuals, institutions acting in the public interest, and documents and actions of public interest. Furthermore, to ensure greater legal certainty and faster decision-making in a process that contributes to greater legal certainty and faster decision-making in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u15	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall. We often meet citizens with administrative fees. Most of the time, at our request, when we submit an application to the administrative authority or to the public authority on the basis of which we, of course, expect the decision of the body, in the event that we wish to obtain a certificate from the administrative authority, or if we wish to verify documents or signatures with the administrative authority. To this end, of course, an administrative fee should be paid, the amount of which is governed by the Law on Administrative Fees. Individual public authorities have for a long time warned the Ministry of Public Administration that this law should be amended and written down, of course, more clear provisions on issues relating to the appellate authority, the reimbursement of the tax, the identification of the individual’s property status with regard to the exemption of the tax. As a result of the change in the material rules, there was also a need to change the amount of the individual fee. The amendment also extends the absolute limitation period from 4 to 10 years. There is also a new proposal for the exemption of fees. On the basis of the data collected by other ministries, the Ministry of Public Administration estimates that the increase in revenue in the state budget in the second half of this year will be around €590 000, or around €1.1 million next year. There is almost no increase in revenues in the budgets of local communities. The positive financial implications for municipalities are thus estimated to be low, about 150 euros this year and the 2000 euro circus in 217. Nehote asks us here whether the Ministry of Finance has had data available to reduce the average local community. Has it not been possible to operate with an estimate or much higher revenues from administrative fees? I would like to point out that there is no way in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the Authority can accept the fact that the excessively paid fee is refunded only if it is higher than €18. For a number of citizens, this amount of non-returnable tax means a day or two of its monthly survival. We will not support the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u17	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u18	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, everyone's welcome! The Law on Administrative Fees was last amended in 2010 and, in the meantime, through other substantive regulations, it has been shown that the law needs to be recast, so today we have a number of amendments and additions to the applicable Law on Administrative Fees. The proposal thus specifies and extends, inter alia, the range of individual exemptions for the payment of the fee and specifies more precisely the finding procedure for the fulfilment of the conditions for exemption for the payment of the fee due to the poor property situation. Finally, the proposal covers the amount of administrative fees due to ease of business for both the authorities and the parties. In the Desus Group, we welcome the decision of the Ministry of Public Administration to take into account the opinions of administrative units, as well as the competent ministries, which are bound to act under this law, and NGOs, because it is only by law that we can successfully resolve the problems that have emerged in practice. In the Desus Group, we support changes that show greater clarity in procedures and all other simplifications brought about by changes in the law. In addition to this, the bill contains solutions that will address identified shortcomings in the procedure and reduce decision-making procedures and thus increase legal certainty. As I have already mentioned, there is a need to change the size of individual tariff numbers and also to round up the level of administrative fees in terms of easier business. From the point of view of allowing for a more efficient recovery of the fee, the expiry date, which is extended from four to ten years, shall also be amended. In the Desus Group, we welcome the proposed amendments and additions, which is why we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and on the amendment tabled, which we will make on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 18. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you. With the amendment in the United Left we propose something very simple, i.e. the current Administrative Tax Act provides that certificates from official records are exempt from fees. This novelty, which we have here, proposes to delete this exemption directly except for criminal records certificates, records of judicial judgments and decisions on offences and joint records of criminal actions. This kind of exemption is something that most often comes into account for users, in short, for those who need these certificates. I think that this is also clear from the explanation proposed by the Ministry, namely that, at the expense of deleting this exemption, which we have known for a long time, it will be known in some way annually for 1.1 million plus in the state budget. I think that this is just one new burden for citizens and citizens and it is, of course, intended for only one thing, and this is an increase in revenue to the state treasury. On the one hand, already such gross procedures, which are also long-lasting for the reasons given in the position of the Group of Members, will now in some way further burden citizens and citizens by having to hit the pockets of these certificates, which virtually all of us need to fulfil these various roles and so on. I think that this does not in some way realize what the basic principle of why we have administrative fees is, in short, partly the reimbursement of the costs that the authorities have with it, but in this case we are faced with some search for a new way of financing the state budget. Therefore, in the United Left, we have proposed that this provision or this paragraph in this Article be simply deleted, because we simply do not see a valid reason why, after a decade in fact, the use of such an exemption would now be deleted, and I think that there is a reasonable reason why, of course, it is only financial and, on the other hand, it also indicates some very inappropriate relationship that the applicant actually points out in his explanation to citizens and citizens when it states that this tax is imposed for avoiding and here I quote an explanation, "often a petty attitude towards the documents already issued," in short, a demeaning relationship between citizens and citizens. So this punishment is not only financial for citizens and citizens, but also moral if I say so, because the Ministry has vilified them with a careless attitude towards some of the documents already issued. We propose simply that this exemption should be maintained, and finally there are 38 exemptions in the proposal for Law. This has been in force for a long time, because there is no basis for this to end now, we have proposed an amendment with which to maintain it, because this is also the most common case, in short, the case where most of these exemptions happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u21	He was still interested, so I'm asking you to report him. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Speaking of exceptions and exemptions, the Law-Legal Service in the framework of the Law on Administrative Court Fees has already said that all exceptions must be dealt with in a very restrictive manner, which means that it is important to be careful when we decide on them. What the United Left states is that this exemption has been for many years and that there is no reason to reintroduce its payment is not true. By the time it was introduced, it was contrary to the opinion of the profession. The profession has said that this is not justified, but the policy has made a different decision. As far as reintroduction is concerned today, what they say is the most common, that this is confirmed by official records, that most often people pay this tax, is not true. In fact, on the one hand, this exemption was introduced past the profession and, on the other hand, something very good was done, i.e. an article was introduced in the Law on Administrative Procedure, which requires that always these certificates be obtained on an official basis, i.e. the individual never needs a certificate when it comes to public law matters, but it must be obtained by the authority for him and means that in this case he is fully exempt from taxes because the authority does so for him free of charge. So that thesis doesn't even hold. As far as budgeting is concerned, maybe just a few data, I have looked at the fact that the law is intended to cover the costs incurred by this, so that the term on budgeting is somehow inappropriate. But when we look at how many countries and what the trend is with regard to the fees they collect, the country is – for three years I have data from the Ministry of Finance – it is said that in 2013 this amounted to 36 million, and in the next two years this went down to 29 million. It means that the burden on citizens is quite high, on average for 6 million per year, and, unlike those mentioned earlier, this trend is quite the opposite. The data show that from a million to 100 increased to a million 600 and last year to a million 670. We know that new taxes have been imposed on the congregations with the ZUJF, so that this cost, which somehow affects the average, has been offset there. And there's a lot of that stuff. So to say that nothing was done for the congregations is not true. But as far as the amendment is concerned, for the reasons I have stated, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u23	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the protection of cultural heritage within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, Mr Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u24	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! This law is not extensive, but it regulates some things that are very important for action in this area. First, it regulates certain terminology changes, it is an update, it is a harmonisation with terminology in the international space, which is particularly important in cases where Slovenia is running for the inclusion of one of the cultural monuments or cultural heritage in the list of intangible cultural heritage of humanity or in the so-called UNESCO List. Furthermore, the law regulates the proclamation of cultural monuments in the field of living or intangible cultural heritage. It clearly defines the division into local and national monuments and sets out the content of the declaration act. The law also regulates or better regulates the method of determining the competent organisation for the protection of living or intangible heritage, which has changed in the past. The Slovenian Ethnographic Museum currently has this mandate and some other institutions. The law also regulates the possibility of investing public funds in measures to protect monuments of living or intangible heritage, which has, of course, been regulated already, but more for immovable cultural heritage, is now better regulated for the issue of intangible heritage. The scope, storage time and the public record of personal data are said to be consistent with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act and some less extensive matters, the limitation of the duration of cultural protection conditions, which is particularly welcome for investors, the abolition of volunteer traineeships, where it is a matter of alignment with the trend which, in other words, is a change in the regulation of professional work in the field of protection of cultural heritage, the unequivocal definition that the prohibition of the use of the name and the image of the monument applies to the use of gainful purposes. In this regard, this article, Article 44 of the current law, is also, as you know, the opinion or initiative of the Council of State, which has been encouraged by civil society, on how to regulate the use of cultural heritage, for example, for a trademark, for commercial use. We are proposing a change with the Committee on Culture, but not to the extent that we would like to see the initiators, particularly those who are involved in Wikipedia, because these initiatives are too extensive to be regulated in such a short time. We are aware, however, that this is a topic which is important and which is also important for cultural heritage, as in positive cases it can also contribute to improving material conditions for the maintenance and restoration of cultural heritage. There is another amendment, or another initiative, which is the initiative of the Group of Nations. We understand this tendency and we have not even opposed it. It is true, however, that it refers to an article that defines definitions, that the concepts in the law are properly defined and that it does not in itself offer an effective option. So that certain concerns apply in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u25	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to both of you. Dear Members and Members! The Committee on Culture is at its 11th session 6. 4. 2016 discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law has been examined by the Legal and Legislative Service and has added some comments to it. Her representative explained, however, that their comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science Education and Sport, which supported the bill, also gave its opinion. Among other things, her representative drew attention to the urgent systemic reform of the entire law and highlighted the amendment of Article 44 of the current law concerning the prohibition of the use of the name and the image of the monument in the event of a non-profit-making purpose. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission for National Communities. The amendments were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD, the Nova Slovenija Group, the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group and the United Left Group. Minister of Culture, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar said that the proposed amendment to the law does not change the principles of the Basic Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, but in particular changes the area of living heritage and includes certain urgent changes related to the replacement of the concepts of living heritage and living masterpieces with the concepts of intangible heritage and intangible heritage of particular importance, with the possibility of co-financing the preservation of heritage monuments from public resources, changing the way in which the competent organisation for the protection of living heritage and the proclamation of living heritage is defined. In addition to this, it contains a number of urgent amendments and additions, which limit the validity of cultural protection conditions and consents for heritage interventions, abolishes volunteering in the field of cultural heritage protection and regulates professional work in the field of protection. The debate focused on the need for comprehensive systemic solutions in the area of cultural heritage. The panellists welcomed the suspension of volunteering in the field of cultural heritage protection, but felt that it would be necessary to produce an analysis of the number of candidates for traineeships in this regard. Some of the talk was also about the possibility of a public-private partnership in the monuments of State importance and the possibility of reselling or long-term rental of such ones due to the urgent maintenance of poorly preserved immovable heritage. With regard to Article 9 of the amendment, it was proposed that the application of the image of cultural monuments should be released, as such a release would, in the opinion of the amendment's proponents, benefit tourist guides, textbooks, newspapers and other media in which photographs could appear without fear of prosecution. In the end, some discussions were also devoted to the transitional and final provisions of Article 21. In doing so, the Minister of Culture explained that the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes in culture had already been prepared, but due to the expected financial consequences it had not yet been addressed. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition of parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u27	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left, we will not oppose the novels of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. This is a few useful corrections, but on the other hand it is necessary to be critical, again, as it is becoming exactly the specific move of the Government of Mira Cerar, to correct and patch up, accompanied by a lot of beautiful words about the coming systemic changes and an integrated strategy in one of the areas. These systemic changes and strategies then we wait and wait, but we never wait for them. The intangible heritage is very rich in Slovenia. It is important, meaning the broadest human form of cultural production and human expression. Practice has shown that the concept of living heritage is inadequate; it can be misinterpreted and sometimes misleading. The unification of terminology, management arrangements and the possibility of financing extraordinary costs are welcome measures. They can also include restrictions on the validity of cultural protection conditions and consents. On this occasion, however, if we extend our view of the immovable cultural heritage, it is difficult to find optimistic and commendable words. It's not overdoing that it's mostly in the worst condition so far. The register includes 29 thousand 615 units of immovable cultural heritage. If we look only at a case of monumental protection: of the 4.18% share of funds earmarked for monumental protection projects in the 2009 budget, only 0.64% were allocated to last year's budget. In short, in six years, from 7 million to about a million euros. The biggest problem is the absence of any vision and strategy, what to do with this heritage and how to provide sufficient resources to stop its collapse. The excuses of the lack of ambition of the former minister cannot suffice. The situation needs to be rectified so that when some water passes through, this government is written as the one after which the most damage to cultural production and cultural heritage has been done. We are losing a lot of castles, not to mention the Ljubljana Drama, the central Slovenian theatre house, which is in a catastrophic state and requires emergency rehabilitation, if not for aesthetic reasons, but for protection reasons. However, Minister Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will obviously have to leave, not because of everything listed and not because of the devastating situation in the culture that has worsened during her term, but because of the reason that it is not justified, the maintenance of the Idri Mine has been suppressed by someone who knows whose interests and what interests have already been deprived of culture. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, whose discharge we will obviously deal with, is a member of the government, who is totally hypnotized with fiscal consolidation, in other words by tightening the belt. This causes the most damage to the culture itself, and the highest price for it is paid by increasingly sophisticated workers and workers in culture, as well as an increasingly good part of cultural heritage. It is precisely this saving direction and the written attitude towards culture that will leave permanent damage to the wider area of culture in Slovenia and not only by the Minister's fault. Since I have only a minute left, let me tell you a message from the culture who tell you that Slovenian culture and culture are happy to take over all the mines in Slovenia, operating and not working, only on condition that one of them is a gold mine. And in short, the joke aside, as it were, in the United Left novel of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, we will not object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u29	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u30	Your Honor, hello! Slovenian culture is a treasurer of national creation over the centuries, so we Christian Democrats are proud of it and want to preserve it while promoting the creativity and cultural participation of modern creators with appropriate legislation. For the present and future of the national community, whose identity is not based either on the historical emphasis on national competitiveness or on the extraordinary economic or military power of its elite, culture is indispensable. Without Slovenian culture there would be neither Slovenian state nor Slovenian politics. The values of cultural heritage and the achievements of modern cultural creativity can also be applied as an economic category, for example in tourism, in printing and discographic production, in industrial design and other forms. Certainly, laws are the foundation necessary to preserve cultural heritage. Thank God we have a lot, but we do not always treat it the most carefully, for example, the Plečnik Stadium and the Church of St. Michael on the Bar, both the work of the great architect Plečnik. In the New Slovenia Group, we have tabled an amendment to the proposed amendment for the meeting of the parent committee, which, in our view, would solve problems for those who have already obtained a cultural security agreement before, but have not yet started the procedures for building permits. The section warned us that there could be a legal void here, the ministry and the other advocates of the novel assured us that the amendment and the amendment had all been adequately resolved and that this had been withdrawn. We hope that the area is indeed properly regulated, and that soon after the law is in force, we will not all find again that something is missing. Although we support the proposed solutions, we support Christian Democrats, in particular the restriction on the validity of cultural protection permits. In our view, the owners will be more motivated to carry out the renovations in a suitable time period and will not go on indefinitely. Cultural protection consents impose a number of conditions on citizens, and insufficient financial incentives or tax incentives for those who want to preserve and invest cultural heritage. Members of New Slovenia will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u31	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a topic that is very important for the future of Slovenia as a small entity in the middle of the European Union and in the middle of the world, and for the importance of Slovenia, the development of cultural heritage is the factor that will bring the future and preserve generations to come. The law and the novelry before us in the Group of Non-Aligned Members will certainly be supported, but unfortunately it only brings about cosmetic corrections. This is a new expression and, of course, some corrections that will help us to obtain funds more easily within the European Union. However, I think it is high time that we had a broader debate and that we should address the subject in an integrated manner and find integrated solutions. Why? In the modern world of hybrid threats – it is a range of threats, including the disappearance of cultural heritage. We have witnessed wars throughout the world, in which entire cultural heritage is disappearing, for example, the recent destruction of Palmire and other cultural monuments in the Middle East. This is because the economic situation does not allow the preservation of cultural heritage and, of course, the neglect of institutions that should preserve cultural heritage. Of course, Unecso and other institutions are very helpful, they have certain resources, but these funds are getting less and more difficult for them to run for. The proposals on private-public partnership, which would somehow save cultural heritage, are not in the right direction, because we know that in such cases it is private earnings and costs of the country and that cultural heritage is often destroyed. What should be highlighted? That we must convey to young generations the awareness of the importance of cultural heritage and expose in society the mechanisms to preserve this heritage. We are all too much at the time of the financial crisis to witness thefts, looting, as well as the destruction of counterfeits in trade and everything else. We note the phenomenon that in this financial crisis, people are selling abroad what is supposed to be a cultural heritage to save their social situation and not even aware of the damage they are doing to the country. Here it is that we always say that cultural heritage is only the subject of one ministry. That's not true. We forget the Ministry of Education, Infrastructure, Home Affairs, which must prevent such crimes and everything else. There is a lack of cooperation here to preserve cultural heritage. In particular, I would like to point out that we do not address the issue of lost art in Slovenia when, before the war of 1940, Italians seized a whole bunch of art under the pretext of protecting them from war. The war is long gone, but we still haven't gotten these art back. It's part of our cultural heritage. To conclude, we will support the proposed changes, but we expect a broader debate and a solution to the subject and an integrated arrangement, and this is the work of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u33	The text is by the Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities, the last of which is Dr Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! In our parliamentary group, we agree with the objectives of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage to address the shortcomings identified in the implementation of the law on the protection of intangible heritage. We also support the decision that this amendment is necessary primarily because of the use of professional and internationally more established terminology in this area, i.e. by the solution to replace the concept of living heritage with a concept of intangible heritage. Despite the principled support for amending the law, I should stress that, above all, on the basis of clear communications from certain professional circles and institutions, instead of the proposed minor amendments to the law, we would be more pleased with the comprehensive legislative reform in the area of preservation and promotion of cultural heritage. It is noted that a wide range of activities in this area, as well as its organisation, would urgently need a comprehensive system-wide overhaul. This will be desirable from the point of view of indigenous national communities. At the meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly, representatives of the Ministry claimed that this was planned, but we do not have much optimism in this regard. From the point of view of indigenous national communities, the area of cultural heritage is an important factor in the preservation and formation of national identity, and some organisations in our community have become actively involved in the process of addressing the proposed legal change. Although the works have gone beyond the limits of proposed changes, this is a clear sign, however, that the area from the point of view of indigenous national communities is underlying, and we are also facing practical problems. At the meeting of the Commission for National Communities, and also later at the meeting of the parent working body, we have tried, in particular, to seek the initiative of our parliamentary group to provide greater emphasis on competences, on the organisation of these communities in engaging in activities of preserving their own cultural heritage. We have proposed to supplement the text, within the framework of the definition, by interpreting the system and the way in which protection is given, to indicate that individual measures other than legal and administrative measures are also carried out by the self-government national communities. This also makes sense to date within the competence of the said organisations, which, under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, are persons of public law. The proposal we came up with with constructive coordination was also agreed by the competent ministry, as was highlighted here earlier by the Secretary of State. Regrettably, however, because of our unclear main reasons for the unacceptable amendment by the coalition parties, both on the Commission for the National Community and on the national working body, he was rejected. Due to the emphasis on cultural heritage as an important factor in the preservation and development of indigenous national communities, in particular due to the clear definition of their legitimate representative organisation as part of the interpretation of the protection of cultural heritage, the adoption of our amendment would constitute a substantive enrichment of the proposed legislative text. The Government's concern for this area is also highlighted in the current coalition agreement. This is also why we have tabled an amendment for the second reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly, by which we wish to place the role of self-government national communities in the field of protection of cultural heritage at least at the symbolic level. The proposed supplement, which is of an interpretative nature, does not in any way interfere with existing systemic solutions, but merely explains the role of self-government national communities and sends a positive message to society's cultural heritage of indigenous national communities. Although we do not want to oppose the adoption of the law, we expect our amendment to be supported by coalition parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u35	The word is given by the Contributing Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone! In the Parliamentary Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Cultural Heritage Protection Act have only brought about urgent changes that address the most pressing problems related to the implementation of this law and the provision of public interest in the area of intangible heritage. We stress the complexity and importance of cultural heritage that a more comprehensive approach to drafting changes and supplementing this law would be necessary. The modern protection of cultural heritage in Slovenia needs a thoroughly renewed law that allows this important cultural and no less technical discipline to carry out its mission in the best way and in the spirit of time. The amendments to the open articles do not have that scope, they are only a set of basic measures. The bill before us today introduces a more internationally and professionally established terminology in the field of living, that is an insubstantial legacy. A more detailed definition of the declaration of the monuments of living heritage on monuments of local and national importance and the act on their declaration is introduced. The Ministry of Culture has taken into account the initiative that comes from the Modern Centre Party Group and in preparing the proposal under consideration, introduces an amendment to the effect that cultural protection conditions and consents expire no later than two years after their issuance. For conditions and consensus under the applicable law last forever, which is certainly not life-threatening, given the change in actual conditions and regulations. The proposed amendment to Article 40 sets out the possibility of investing public funds for the extraordinary costs necessary to protect, revive or implement other measures to protect the monuments of living heritage and the possibility of co-financing programmes to protect and revive the intangible heritage of particular importance within municipalities and provinces. The amendment to Article 44 provides that in cases of non-profit-making purposes a prohibition may be imposed on the use of the image and the name of the monument without the consent of the owner. In addition to that proposal, it also introduces the abolition of volunteering and the definition of conditions for professional work in the field of protection of cultural heritage, which take into account competences achieved through education, professional experience and with specific references. For all of this, we support the proposal of the Law in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u37	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! The core of the changes and the addition of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is the regulation of the area of living, there is a illogical legacy to ensure the application of internationally and professionally established terminology in the field of living, intangible heritage. The bill defines among others the declaration of monuments in the field of intangible heritage, distinguishing the law between monuments of local and national importance. The proposal also allows public funds to be invested in extraordinary costs for the protection, resuscitation or implementation of other measures to protect non-essential property monuments. The proposal aligns the provisions on the register of cultural heritage with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. The restrictions on the validity of cultural protection conditions and the consent to intervene in succession shall also be amended to two years from their jurisdiction. The Group notes that the draft law takes into account the comments and proposals made by the professional public, while at the same time drawing attention to the urgent systemic reform of the whole system or the law. The Ministry of Culture has ensured that a new strategy in the field of cultural heritage is also being prepared and a new law has been announced in this regard. We will not oppose the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u39	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Say good-bye to everyone again! Among the most important solutions presented by the bill is the enforcement of international and professional terminology and the regulation of the area of protection of the living or the new intangible heritage. In accordance with the decisions of the Government adopted in December 2014 and with the action plan on the organisation and implementation of traineeships in Slovenia adopted in June, as well as in the field of the protection of cultural heritage, volunteering is hereby abolished. Among other things, the amendments concern the limitation of the period of validity of cultural protection conditions and the consent to intervene in heritage. Following the current regulation, the validity of cultural protection conditions and consents is not limited in time. Given that this has in practice proved to be a weakness to be addressed, the validity of cultural protection agreements and conditions is now limited and terminated within two years at the latest after their jurisdiction. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that the draft law also takes into account the comments made by the professional public. So now, after a good year of legislation has been published on the e-democracy portal, we have a good law before us. That is why in the Desus Group we will confirm the bill. We are pleased that there is also a new strategy for the protection of cultural heritage in preparation, and we hope that a comprehensive reform of this area with the new law will soon follow. As has already been said, in the Desus Group, we feel that the amendment to the law that we are considering today is good, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u41	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that again, President. Dear Secretary of State with colleague, colleague and colleague! Protecting cultural heritage is our common concern expressed in the highest legal act of the Constitution. The Constitution gives special attention to cultural heritage. In the general provisions, primary concern shall be given to the State, and in particular Article 73 shall express our individual responsibility. The protection of cultural monuments is thus the responsibility of each of us, and at community level the country and local communities are responsible for preserving cultural heritage. The Constitution does not, of course, define the manner in which the declared concern is carried out as a general act. This leaves this to the district law, which is now the applicable law on the protection of cultural heritage. It defines heritage as a property related to the past or inherited from the past and establishes powers in its protection with the aim of preserving it for the future. How extensive the work in this area is, there is evidence that almost 30,000 of them are registered in the register of immovable cultural heritage, of which about 300 are national and about 8 000 are local. In addition, 46 units have been recorded in the register, according to the new unfathomable cultural heritage. This includes moving cultural wealth in museums, galleries. Any detail should therefore be considered in the assessment of support for amendments to the sectoral law. In view of the scale and significance of the changes, the proposal for a novel that is before us is seen as a diplomatic contribution to the protection of cultural heritage. Regardless of the assessment that cosmetic repairs are mainly concerned, the proposal contains some provisions that will, hopefully, have more tangible effects. Among them, we stress the novelty, the possibility of co-financing the preservation of living, intangible heritage from public resources. As it follows from the explanation of the proposal, no additional budgetary resources are foreseen for this purpose, and we believe that the Ministry, as the institution and the lawmaker for this purpose, has provided for certain funds under the existing budget and that the expectations raised by this provision in relation to the holders of the protection of living heritage will not be in vain. The second important contribution of the proposal, which is highlighted in the position of the Group of Social Democrats, is the abolition of volunteering in the field of public service for the protection of cultural heritage. In the Group of Social Democrats we support this direction. I emphasize, we support. However, we point out that the Ministry of Culture needs to relatively improve the possibility of classical training and thus enable this graduate to fulfil an important condition for work in this area, which is the subject of a professional examination. Managing the country's cultural heritage brings many challenges from investment to content. The proposed novel responds to a small part of these. A more systematic approach will be needed to exploit potentials that include wider social and economic opportunities in addition to cultural ones. We expect that part of this will also be covered by the recast law on the so-called cultural euro. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u43	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 18. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The text is by Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. As I have already announced in the position of the Group of Members, we have also tabled an amendment to the second reading of the bill at the meeting of the National Assembly, because we believe that this area certainly requires more attention on the part of the Government on the one hand to address the cultural heritage of the indigenous national community, and on the other hand we believe that it is important to note from the point of view of the national community itself that it is even more aware of its cultural heritage. We are also aware of what we have repeatedly stressed in the debate at the Commission on Nationality and also at the meeting of the home working body, that this law is too narrowly open to articles, so that we can present our content additions as we originally wanted. However, we have considered that in the part where interpretation of the text of the law and the terminology itself is concerned, it is important to draw attention at least to what is undoubtedly important from the point of view of our community in determining the cultural heritage, i.e. the preservation and presentation of cultural heritage, the important factors of the legitimate organisation of our communities, are the self-governing national communities. I will not be deepening here now in this regard that these are actually persons of public law, nor will I stress the fact that, practically, when the national community wants to present its own cultural heritage, it does not affect the rights of any other community, so we are also talking about our cultural heritage as an important factor of our identity. In short, taking into account other recent comments or the last position of the Legislative and Legal Service at the meeting of the parent working committee itself, we have further adapted our amendment proposal to such a form that, in our view now, for all the factors, that is to say, for all the parties present here today, it must be acceptable if the genuine intention in the coalition agreement is to take a step forward in the area of the cultural heritage of the national community. To make it clear what I'm talking about, I'm just gonna read it. We propose that, in the second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 3, the text of "implementation also" should be added to the text "self-governance national community" and this should then sound as if I now read the 42nd point as we would like to see it in this amendment of the law, namely: "The property is legal, administrative, organisational, financial and other measures of the State, the provinces and the municipalities which aim at the existence and enrichment of the heritage. Individual protection measures other than legal and administrative measures shall also be carried out by self-government national communities and other protection bodies.” In short, we only add this emphasis to the importance of the self-governing national community in this activity. To conclude, once again, let me point out that this role of the self-governance national community has already been played, this is merely a warning for both the Government or the executive side of the government and for the self-governance national community themselves, that there are still many open, many unresolved issues in this area and that, with possible major changes to this law, we will also make appropriate substantive improvements to the existing legal level. Of course, it is important that this amendment also takes into account at least this minimum comment or this minimum proposal of ours under this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u45	I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? I'll give you my word, rather than running the word again, Mr Roberto Battelli has it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is a little strange that in this text a dictatorship "including other protection entities" is adopted, but it is rejected that there are also self-government national communities. Indeed, the self-governing national communities do not have direct legal and administrative powers, but there is something else that, apart from the local communities, they are the only entity that is, after a halt, so that certain powers of the State can be transferred to them. The self-government communities are also in this context school founders, they make up electoral directories, so they have certain powers that are actually something that brings them closer to the status of local self-government entities on the one hand and, on the other hand, defines them as something that is not a society and is a person of public law. Among the most important roles played by the self-government communities is that they care about the culture of the national community. Culture is a very broad concept. There is no definition of national minorities and it is not for the benefit of members of national minorities. For no one shall be compelled to declare his belongings, but no one shall be hindered from declaring his belongings. But if there is no definition of national minorities, there is a definition of the identity of national minorities, in our community. There is a definition of identity, something that defines the subjectivity of this dimension. The identity of the national communities consists of religion, language, cultural tradition and cultural heritage. This means that these elements must exist and must be recognised. If national communities are recognised in the main elements of their own identity, it is likely that their legitimate and constitutional organizations, which care for national communities and which are composed of representatives of national communities and which do not operate in the void, but in full connection with the space, with the country, can also participate in the protection of other entities which do not otherwise have legal and administrative full powers, in order to contribute to the cultural transfer and cultural heritage of the space in which they live, preserve and valorise as it is written in all of our constitutions, but also in all documents ratified by Slovenia, both by the Council of Europe and UNESCO, which deal with national communities and cultural heritage and its protection. This law better defines the concept of intangible cultural heritage. The intangible cultural heritage can be effectively protected only with the space in which it resides. And in this sense, this is a better definition of this concept in law, and I believe that it will be even better broken down in the systemic changes that are being prepared at the Ministry of Culture. This dimension of intangible cultural heritage may also be the most important reflection of the identity of national communities. The approach to these issues is ambivalent. He's not finished yet. Something that happened in the definition of the element of intangible cultural heritage that concerns us. And this is that there has not been an equalization between the autonomy of the Italian national community and Istrian Venice as a historical idiom used in a place where we are historically living. The argument is that some tribal families of the Albanian tribe lived in Cyprus, for example, and so on. Now I don't know why this would be something that would challenge the link between Istrian Venice and the Italian National Community. It's something amazing. In fact, this is total absurdity in approach. Imagine that there is something used about Slovenian culture and Slovenian cultural heritage, because some of the surnames were of German origin, for example, or something like that. In short, this is completely ridiculous and wrong in approach. I hope that we will get rid of these misunderstandings in a short time and that we will no longer read on the ministries' portals, that in the past there has been wars between the Republic of Mljet and the Republic of Venice and such nonsense which also reflect, as I would say, the basic ignorance of things and just one such profound ignorance of people who are otherwise to professionally support this or that decision of the executive branch of power. [[…]] Of course, the author read some texts in Croatian, where the Republic of Venice is the Republic of Mljet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u47	I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? Yes, please report. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. This marriage is discussed with too much compulsiveness and so on and so forth, what is bad, without serious analysis of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Great hopes are also placed in the development of a cultural heritage strategy, which appears to be being done without adequate analysis, and it is therefore worrying whether it will not be just another paper that no one will take seriously. We already have one such document, this is the National Programme for Culture, which is very ambitiously set up, but I am afraid that so far it has been achieved very little. From the perspective of an architect who has worked continuously for 20 years with the service of monumental protection, I must say in this place, I am probably the only one who has this opportunity from the profession that we have experienced for years and years with the extreme severity of the service of monumental protection, nothing could be created to go in a more modern direction, in another expression of architecture that is, of course, respectful of what the environment is and what the structure is built. We have even come to absurdities that when we go architects on a professional excursion, for example, to Austria, a colleague from the monumental protection explains to me how a beautiful one of them on a roof is made of glass, not allowing them to think in Maribor. I say, "How can this be interpreted?".. She said, "Our legislation is like that." I think it is now time that, if this is indeed the case, this legislation is changing, that it is changing and that we approach a new and more serious amendment of this law, particularly in substance. We have also tried to reach an agreement with the ministry this time, but the issue of the renaming of the intangible heritage has been so urgent that we have failed to achieve this goal, and I hope that we will be able to achieve it easily in the future. Apart from the two-year period of validity of the cultural protection conditions and the consensus which has now been lifted, there is another absurdity that the deadline for issuing cultural protection conditions is 30 days, for issuing an opinion or consensus for 15 days, while the law on the construction of buildings under which construction is granted and awarded is allowed provides for the opposite. It is still amazing to me that, despite all my efforts, I have failed with the competent ministry to make this matter change. That's one negative thing, but we're not here just to brag, so I think we need to stress that. Of course, this resulted in problems in administrative units, since for each delay of this 15-day period, which was actually 30 days after the second law, the administrative unit interpreted that you had missed that deadline and refused to issue a building permit. For example, the 42nd Article, which stipulates that in cases where the owner does not carry out an inspection measure, is a competent state or municipality, provides for a number of other examples as a forecast of what we will engage in in the future. In practice, this means that the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage monuments implements the measure when it receives funds from the State and the municipality, because this money is not actually in the budget, the inspection measures are not being carried out at all. It's a terrible absurdity. The source of funds for this purpose should be provided for, of course, first in the law to pay for the enforcement of inspection measures and, of course, it will be necessary to determine the competence of the authority to recover that money from the owner of that property or monument. The following is the case in Article 59 when it comes to governance. The possibility of non-commercial rents on cultural monuments will have to be allowed, as commercial rents for tenants are generally unsustainable, and this is also one of the reasons why we die or that our cultural heritage is being destroyed, especially when it comes to these material artifacts, mostly for objects. We will postpone the provision of hereditary leases to allow longer rents, 90 years and more, to find a way to issue building rights for possible interventions on cultural heritage sites and so on. This will, of course, open the way for cultural heritage to be actively, in the spirit of time and in modern and economic success, with its presence in the everyday lives of our citizens. Finally, it will also be necessary to lay down the set and conditions for regulating professions to be aligned with the actual state of vocational education and the conduct of professions in the field of cultural heritage. There's a lot of people who don't have schools and schools, but they're needed. Members of the Modern Centre Party in the Committee on Culture are planning to engage in substantive improvements to the law on the protection of cultural heritage in the near future, so we are predicting a continuation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u49	The text is by Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much, for your word, once again, Mr President. For the first time, let me respond to the implementation of Mr Rajić, who did not touch the amendment, but discussed in general what parliamentary practice is in Article 1 or if the only article is, of course, the first in that article that is just being considered. I must stress that we agree with everything that has been said on his part. We too join in seeking these solutions in a new system of legal reform. However, since there has been no response to our amendment proposal, I believe that this text is in fact now so prepared that it can enjoy the support of the National Assembly as a whole or at least the majority required. In particular, I would like to point out that in past discussions, in fact, there were no substantive arguments against what we wanted here as an upgrade to the text to ensure. I must also stress once again the very corrective approach of the Ministry of Field Affairs, which was ready to discuss solutions, to negotiate, even though we did not agree on everything, but we have reached a consensus which Mr State Secretary has also made clear. After that, the Law-Legal Service had only one comment of a procedural nature, which we have also abandoned in this new version, so that it is, in fact, explicitly, as has already been pointed out, the clear relevance of self-government national communities in the issue of the application and identification of the cultural heritage of indigenous national communities. Let me conclude by concluding that, given the legal and legal situation or the constitutional position of the national community, as Mr Battelli has pointed out, when other entities are also highlighted, it is as important in our opinion as it is in substance that this word union, namely the self-government national community, is covered by this bill. Despite some minor, in narration, disagreements at the working bodies' meeting, I expect our amendment's support to be provided at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u51	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. About the relationship. For example, the Kori museum last prepared one promotion of Karpaccia, its operation in Koper. And then we read about this in the media and it's interesting that the central Slovenian daily mentioned the Dutch Renaissance in his report, but not Italian. Also now a very beautiful, very old house in Kidričeva Street in Koper is falling apart because it was privatized during a period of injustice, it is said. In short, it's falling apart. And then this house, once again in a newspaper report, says that such houses exist in Turkey, in the Arab world and so on, this house, which is medieval, has nothing to do with Italian, Mediterranean culture. This adjective is taboo, we have an Italian national community, but as far as the cultural dimension is concerned, because minorities are only a cultural dimension in the normal present world according to the regulations and standards that are in force and that are all present in our constitution and in the international documents that I mentioned earlier, which are ratified here in this Chamber. It's a cultural dimension, it's not a defence-ideological war, it's a security dimension. And until we understand this, we will not be able to have normal relations and even the valorisation of this cultural diversity, which of course also marks Slovenia. And it will not be possible to take a conceptual approach to those measures that essentially save minorities from this pressure, which is essentially nationalistic and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u53	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the law of the sea in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! The main reason for amending and supplementing the Maritime Code is the regulation of maritime employment legislation, which is also governed by two EU Directives under the Maritime Labour Convention, for which the RS has already received two official warnings due to the non-notification of the transposition into the legal order. The amendments and additions to the Maritime Code thus regulate the conclusion of a working relationship for a seafarer who is specific and different from the regulation under the Labour Relations Act. The provisions of the Labour Relations Act relating to a contract of employment for seafarers will cease to apply from the date of application of the proposal. This is already the subject of the Labour Relations Act itself in its transitional provisions. Given that the Maritime Labour Convention brings together conventions and recommendations of working standards adopted by the International Labour Organisation since 1919, most of which are already part of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, we do not expect major changes in this area. The ship, which is registered in the Slovenian Ship Register and which undertakes international travel, is also under-executing the system of supervision of the implementation of the provisions of labour law. Other amendments and additions are needed to ensure greater safety of navigation and to harmonise the law with other laws, European Union legislation and international legislation. These changes relate, for example, to the granting of a permit for scientific research and control over the conduct of scientific research, to the completion of the provisions on records of documents issued, to the obligation to pay a fee for safety of navigation facilities for all boats and yachts, to a more precise determination of original hydrographic data, to the preliminary right of the Republic of Slovenia or the local community to purchase land within the port, to the coordination of the port development programme with the national programme and also to the maritime development strategy, to the issue of a operational permit after obtaining a usable permit, to the distribution of tasks between port supervisors and maritime inspectors operating within the administration of the Republic of Slovenia for maritime navigation, to the documents to be forwarded by the ship prior to entry into the port, to the marking of areas of the prohibition of navigation to ensure greater safety of the minemen, to the removal of certain deficiencies in respect of insurance obligations, to the classification of the administrative system. The proposal also contains some editorial corrections. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose to hold a third review of the proposed law at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u55	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u56	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 19th meeting, on 6. 4. 2016 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Maritime Code submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. Amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups were tabled within the deadline. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. Klemen Grebenšek explained that the main reason for amending the Maritime Code is the regulation of maritime employment legislation, which is governed by two other directives under the Maritime Labour Convention. However, the implementation of the two Directives into the national legal order was delayed because the Maritime Labour Convention, adopted by the National Assembly at the beginning of this year, had to be ratified first. With regard to its ratification, several years of editorial and inter-resort coordination on the implementation of the Convention itself between several ministries took place. The draft law regulates the conclusion of a working relationship for the seafarer in accordance with the Maritime Labour Convention and the Labour Relations Act. The provisions of the Labour Relations Act relating to a contract of employment for seafarers will cease to apply from the date of application of the proposal. Other amendments to the legislation were made before me by Mr Grebenšek, and he would have referred to his statements in order to avoid repeating them. The legislative and legal services have also examined the proposal of the law in terms of its compliance with the other legislation and the Constitution. In this regard, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made comments, but it was explained that amendments to the coalition groups which are subject to the shortcomings were tabled in relation to the comments of the PSC. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports and has no comments. In a short discussion, a general positive assessment of the proposed solutions was expressed by Members and Members. With regard to the proposed provision of Article 53, which provides that the provisions on the possession of weapons on board the ship should be deleted, since weapons are to be regulated by the Weapons Act, the wish was expressed for an additional definition of the applicant. It was subsequently explained by the proposer that the arrangements under which the master of the ship for order and security was to carry firearms on board were based on the past when it was customary for the authority to be in the hands of the master of the ship in case of extraordinary events. New European regulations, which also take into account anti-terrorist and anti-piracy activities, are heading towards eliminating the presence of weapons on board. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to SMC, Desus and SD's parliamentary groups, which were the only ones proposed. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted all articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u58	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we cannot agree with the Government's explanation of the reasons for the long delay in ratifying the Maritime Labour Convention, as well as the transposition of both European directives governing the employment of seafarers. By the end of last year, 68 countries had ratified the Maritime Labour Convention, which constitutes a fundamental charter for the work of seafarers. Slovenia did so among the last in the European Union only in January of this year. That is why, of course, what is common practice, it has already received two official reminders from the European Commission in this area. Although Slovenia has signed the Convention, it has not ratified it, which is essential for the unification of international law. The Code of the Sea doesn't bring much news. It regulates the conclusion of contracts of employment for seafarers, respecting in a consistent manner the provisions of the Maritime Labour Convention applicable to all crew members working on a ship flying the Slovenian flag and carrying out international voyages. The establishment of minimum labour and living standards for maritime work and the provision of social security for seafarers and their families in the event of serious injuries is essential in terms of the alignment with the rights of work relations between other workers. The scope of employment contracts for seafarers is, following a new exemption from the Labour Relations Act, since the Maritime Labour Convention adopted by the International Labour Organisation in 2006 and entered into force in 2013, closely linked to the Maritime Act, makes sense that the Code also covers other solutions related to international law. It also addresses the shortcomings identified in practice by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs and are essential to ensure the safety of navigation. In Novi Slovenija we will therefore support the proposal for amendments and the completion of the Maritime Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Ms Vesna Vervega will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The maritime code clearly represents an important part of the legislation, as it deals with a number of issues that have an extremely important political, economic, ecological and defence dimension. The law was adopted in 2001 and was subsequently amended and coordinated several times with a number of international conventions and agreements. The new proposal for amendments to the Maritime Code also refers to the harmonisation of Slovenian legislation with European rules. Thus, the amendment of the Maritime Code largely regulates the transposition of two European directives concerning labour standards of maritime workers and thus aligns Slovenian legislation with the Maritime Labour Convention ratified by the Republic of Slovenia on 26 January 20165. The assessment has prevailed that the work of seafarers is specific in the field of labour law and therefore it makes sense to exclude this area from the Labour Relations Act and to regulate it in particular in the Maritime Code. The proposal introduces quite a few new developments: it sets minimum requirements for seafarers to work on board the ship; it prohibits the employment of persons under 16 years of age; it complements the provisions on the competence of seafarers; it regulates working hours and compulsory rest of employees; it regulates the right to annual leave; it also touches the areas of port management functions; it lays down the competences of port supervisors and inspectors; it complements the provisions on safety of navigation; and it introduces a number of other minor changes. The amendment was further tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups at 50. Article following the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service. While the existing provision is not disputed, the amendment improves as the crew member has the right to payment of at least half of the remaining salary foreseen to him at the time of the end of the journey, on which the shipwreck or other accident occurred, but at least at the rate of two months' wages, which gives seafarers greater social protection. We support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, because we believe that multi-annual coordination has helped us today to introduce better standards in the field of employment of seafarers into Slovenian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will postpone the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, especially the representatives of the Ministry! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Maritime Code, which is tabled on a regular basis. Amendments and additions to the Maritime Code are necessary due to the regulation of maritime employment legislation under the Maritime Labour Convention. The Convention entered into force at international level on 20 August 2013, and was ratified by the National Assembly in January 2016. The transitional provisions of the Labour Relations Act, the ZDR-1, relating to contracts of employment for seafarers governing labour relations for seafarers are also included. At European Union level, two Directives were adopted with a view to effective implementation of the Maritime Labour Convention, namely Council Directive 2009/13 of February 2009 implementing the Agreement concluded between the European Community Shipowners' Association and the European Federation of Transport Workers and Directive 2013/54 of the European Parliament and of the Council 2013 on certain State responsibilities to ensure compliance with the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention. The deadline for transposition of both Directives was March 2015. As no notification was carried out by those deadlines, the Republic of Slovenia received an official notice from the European Commission. The draft law also introduces a few minor amendments proposed by the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs and has proved necessary in practice. The proposal also contains some editorial corrections. Amendments and additions to the Maritime Code are necessary in order to harmonise the law with other laws, international law and European Union legislation. The proposal improves provisions that ensure greater safety of navigation. The Section on Ship Crews shall amend and supplement the provisions in accordance with the Maritime Labour Convention to which both Directives refer. The provisions on the crew shall be supplemented by making up persons, seafarers, who are engaged in any role on the ship and who are registered on the list of crews to work on the ship. A person who has not yet reached the age of 16 may not work on the ship. The provisions on the competence of seafarers, which are demonstrated by an appropriate authorisation or certificate, shall also be supplemented by the conditions under which those instruments may be withdrawn. New provisions are added laying down that the provisions of the Maritime Labour Convention relating to the employment contract shall apply to all crew members on ships flying the Slovenian flag flying the international sea. If there is doubt as to whether individual persons or ships for the purpose of the Maritime Labour Convention are treated as members of a crew or ship, the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia shall decide on this, after consultation with the organisations representing shipowners and seafarers. A new provision shall be made on records of documents issued by the Maritime Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which shall also specify which personal data shall contain those records. The law provides that fees must be paid for the use of navigational safety facilities. It shall be determined what is the origin of hydrographic data and the right to acquire and use such data as are of strategic defence interest. It is also decided that the original hydrographic data of strategic defence interest is maintained by the Geodetic Institute of Slovenia. The development of port infrastructure is planned by the port manager with the port development programme, which must be in line with the national programme, which is to be adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Government. The port supervisor shall be accompanied by control over the implementation of the navigational regime of all vessels not only by boats. The additional requirement is to notify the number of persons boarded also for passenger ships spitting in national voyages. Data is important mainly for the search and rescue of persons in the event of accidents. Experience in the control of the Slovenian Maritime Administration and near the coast has shown that the provisions on the distance of navigation from the coast cannot be effectively monitored during the summer months, so that the provision is supplemented by the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs for the safety of navigation and the protection of swimmers to indicate areas where navigation or anchoring is prohibited. In the light of all the additions and all the amendments mentioned above, the bill improves the roof law and eliminates the confusion so far, we will not oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We also support the proposal by the United Left Amendment, which has been tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! Although Slovenia is a small maritime country, we are aware of the importance of regulating maritime legislation, including the need to regulate the employment of seafarers, which is also the main reason for the amendment of the Maritime Code. The employment of seafarers is very specific and differs from that of the Labour Relations Act. The basis for regulating this area is the Maritime Labour Convention, which is also governed by the two Directives of the European Union. Although the employment of seafarers will be regulated under the Maritime Code, the system of supervision of the implementation of the provisions of labour law will still be maintained. Otherwise, in the Desus Group as a very important milestone for maritime workers, we assess the adoption of the Maritime Labour Convention in 2006. This is the first time that minimum labour and living standards for seafarers have been established. This also means ensuring a certain level of social security for workers in the maritime sector and at the same time for their families if the workers are seriously injured, which in extreme cases may also lead to permanent disability or even the death of a sailor. As we will or will hear more than once today, most of us are disturbed by the fact that the provisions of the Maritime Labour Convention are not passed on until 10 years after the adoption of the Maritime Labour Convention, and only after we have received an official reminder. While we understand the fact that the delay is the result of long-term negotiations between the ministries, due to fully specific solutions for seafarers. However, we believe that this practice of late transposition of European directives after receiving official reminders is necessary. After all, as a maritime state, we must meet all the requirements laid down by the International Maritime Organization in the framework of the Conventions, so it is our duty to implement, as important and specific solutions as this proposal for a law, as soon as possible. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the proposal for a novel of the Maritime Code. We will also undermine the proposal by the amendment of the coalition to Article 50, which, according to our assessment, improves the provision on the payment of the remainder of the salary to the crew member after a shipwreck or other accident, as it will allow, in the event of acceptance, at least half of the income that would be due to him for the journey for which he has embarked, but not less than two salaries. However, he shall be paid the amount that is more favourable to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code was submitted by the Government to the hearing following a regular procedure. The law is being amended to regulate the employment of seafarers in accordance with the Maritime Labour Convention ratified by the National Assembly in January this year. At the same time, it should be stressed in this area that we have not yet properly transposed the two directives of the European Union into our legal order, for which we have already received two official reminders. The bill is based on the principle of ensuring a decent living and working situation for seafarers, which we are the Social Democrats as a party that is historically based on the labour movement and on its fight for greater social rights. In doing so, it should be recalled that employment and the site of work, especially in neoliberal global society, are unfortunately too often neglected and therefore require special protection. We therefore support any solution that improves the situation of people living on their jobs, such as seafarers in the case of the novel of the Pomura Code. At the proposal of the law, the competent commission of the Council of State gave a positive opinion. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service or their comments were duly taken into account by the amendments. However, the last amendment, which we will also deal with today, provides an additional guarantor that, in the event of a possible shipwreck or other accident of a ship, the seafarer has the right to the amount paid, which is more favourable to him and in no case is less than the amount of two wages. At the same time, the bill also contains solutions relating to ensuring greater safety of navigation and certain editorial corrections. The law also takes into account the principle of the safety of navigation, the protection of human life at sea and the prevention of pollution by the sea. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the draft law improves the position of seafarers and that it is based on legal principles, and we will therefore support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. McKinley. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable others! The law, as has already been said before, introduces the content of the Maritime Labour Convention and the form of some minor corrections necessary to comply with European legislation, including certain amendments proposed by the Maritime Administration of the Republic of Slovenia concerning greater maritime safety. The largest acquisition of law in the United Left is seen in the transposition of the provisions of the Maritime Labour Convention. As already stated before me, the Convention was adopted decades ago and has become an important milestone for maritime workers, as it for the first time in history sets minimum labour and living standards for maritime work. Furthermore, the Convention, as we call it, is a living document that can be changed, not only in the light of the needs of the maritime industry, but also in the light of the needs of the workers at sea, and can serve as such an example to other economic sectors. In short, the Convention ensures a certain level of social security for seafarers and their families, in the event of serious damage at sea, which may cause permanent disability or even death. This law largely transposes the provisions of the Convention into our Maritime Code. However, we must draw attention to the fact that the provisions of the Maritime Convention are being transposed into our legal order with a 10-year delay. At EU level, with a view to more effective implementation of the Convention, adopted by Directives 2009, 2013, which we are also delaying and, as speakers have already said before me, because no notification has been made, the Republic of Slovenia has received an official notification from the European Commission due to non-notification. In short, it took Slovenia 10 years to transpose the provisions of the Convention. During this time, the left, right, whatever you call it, governments were exchanged, despite the fact that we have already written in the Labour Relations Act 2013 that the provisions of this law are applicable until a special law that will regulate working relations for seafarers is enforced. So we knew that working relations for seafarers must be regulated in a specific law, but it is obvious when it comes to the rights of workers, in this particular case of seafarers, that they are not in a hurry either with national legislation or with the transposition of European directives. The law and amendment proposed by the coalition, which further regulates the employer's obligations to pay wages to seafarers in the event of shipwrecks, will be supported in the United Left. With regard to the amendments, I will say a few words later, but this amendment is a very good example if you want to see how in this society and in this country we forget some of the proclamated facts. One well-proclaimed fact is that Slovenia is a maritime state and, as a maritime country with a rich tradition, we need ten years to put this kind of thing somehow, translate it into our legal order and a certain part of our work in order to express ourselves, to improve some working conditions. Well, someone might say, because these workers are relatively small, but here I would remember that story about housing. Some society, some parliamentary democracy is weighing, is the lacuna paper of its seriousness just in that it is very attentive to some such stories, which seem to be minor for someone, but they are key. Once these are residential dwellings, secondly they are small brewers, thirdly they are sailors and hopes, regardless of crossing the right, left, opposition, coalition, that in this composition and in the subsequent compositions of the National Assembly we will gain more sensitivity to such topics. Like I said, there'll be a pardon in the United States. [[...]] I'm getting a little cocky. You should go to sea. In the United Left, we will support both the law and the amendment, which we have some comments on, because we believe that it should be further improved. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 18 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and the Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. You can't sit down, let alone drink a glass of water in this House, but it's time. Yes, in some serious democracies since the beginning of the pro-democracy is an integral part of the fact that a speaker can take a break, two, three seconds and drink a glass of water, we are not yet in this aggregate state. The water is also associated with the shipwrecks covered by this amendment. The coalition has somehow been amended in a state of improvement. It is a simple fact that a sailor or a sailor is in an aggregate state of regular or extraordinary or indefinite-term employment and is shipwrecked — and what happens then? The legislative and legal service has generally pointed out some problems in this regard. The amendment somehow corrects this, improves that a person gets at least two wages, but at the same time somehow still retains, puts in an unequal position employees for a certain period of time and for an indefinite period of time. Why? I'll just read it to you. If, for example, we had a shipwreck of a ship on which one sailor would have a fixed-term contract and another year before the contract expired, in this case a sailor would have paid six more full salaries. Another sailor on the same ship who would be employed indefinitely would get at least two wages. In short, in the United Left, we believe that further consideration should be given to this article in order to be further amended by the sailors. employees for an indefinite period of time received in the event of shipwrecks paid at least the number of salaries paid to seamen employed for a fixed period of time. In short, this amendment does not fully address this issue. Maybe someone thinks something minor, but you know, after all, I've got a River Remorner exam, and of course I'm talking about sailors, like the United Left, of course, always working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I might be concerned with this amendment, in which there is a speech, in short, in the event of shipwreck, the provision has so far been made that a member of a ship's crew, who is in a working relationship and who has at least two months following the shipwreck, has the right to pay as set out in the employment contract. The coalition parties have proposed a certain improvement in this regard, namely that the crew member shall continue to have the right in the event of a shipwreck of at least half the remainder of the salary foreseen to him for the time of boarding in the ship if he does not have a shipwreck or other accident, but at least at the rate of two months' wages, if this is more favourable for the crew member. With such a dictatorship, the crew member who experiences shipwreck retains all the rights he has had since the law, and in fact gets even more, he gets that half of the salary for the remainder of the contract, so he gets more than it has been so far when the salary was limited to only two months. Given that such an arrangement is for the benefit of the worker, for the benefit of his social security, we are of course in favour of this amendment, which we have somehow drafted ourselves, and we believe is actually in favour of the seafarers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Marjana, on the microphone, the green light has to light up for you. The "plug-in" key. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I didn't understand because my phone was ringing at the time. I'm sorry. Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I, too, would like to redefine myself to this amendment to the 50th Article, which I think is very important, because it is the rights of a seafarer's worker, and I would also like to implement this Directive into our code. It is a matter of complementing the amendment of the code proposed for the adoption of the National Assembly in the sense that the crew member, i.e. the one who boarded the ship, is entitled to an additional salary in the event of an accident or shipwreck, by means of this amendment at least two months' wages, so this is for the benefit of the worker and that is why I support it. It is also true that this remuneration belongs to the seafarer in the event that he has concluded a working relationship for a certain or indefinite period of time. This is also very important, and it is, as I said, for the benefit of the worker. At the same time, I would also like to express my concern about this relationship that we are waiting so long to implement these two directives into our code, because it is the rights of workers from the labour force, in this case seafarers who are sailing across the sea. I do not think that this is acceptable, and in this regard I am criticising our ministry, which has waited so long for this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the implementation of the customs legislation of the European Union, in another case under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u76	Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The European Union Customs Union rules are directly applicable in all Member States. The vast majority of powers are transferred to the European institutions, but there are some areas where Member States have the possibility and duty of national regulation. In Slovenia this is regulated by the Law implementing the customs rules of the European Community. However, since new customs legislation, the Customs Code and the three implementing or delegated Regulations are to be applied at European Union level on 1 May this year, it is also necessary to adapt national customs legislation. Therefore, you have before you a new proposal for a law implementing the customs legislation of the European Union. The objectives of the bill are in particular to remove administrative burdens, reduce costs for debtors and the Financial Administration in the implementation of customs rules, promote existing procedures and harmonise criminal provisions with new customs legislation. In the area of removing administrative burdens, I would like to point out in particular the following. Economic operators will also be able to obtain new certificates of origin at the Financial Administration, not only at the Chamber of Commerce and Economic Affairs, which is a simplification and facilitation of the process of obtaining such proof, as it will be possible to carry out all customs formalities in one place. Under certain conditions, the draft law also allows for the prior validation of these certificates and thus for further simplification. Simplifications are also involved in the service of documents; on the basis of a proposal for a law, all documents will be served electronically using an electronic system. In addition, at the request of the parties in simple cases in which the customs authority complies with the customer's requirements, documents may also be served by electronic mail, which will simplify and accelerate the existing procedures. Under the conditions for business in free zones, the law repeals the obligation to submit extensive construction documentation for interventions to the premises or construction of facilities in the free zone. Among other solutions, I would like to highlight the following: the arrangements for the training of persons involved in customs procedures. These trainings are primarily intended for persons wishing to benefit from certain benefits, such as obtaining the status of an authorised economic operator for customs simplification, and the possibility of inclusion is open to all participants in customs procedures. With regard to education, however, no new licensing of the freight forwarding profession is introduced, as we have known so far. With a view to expediting the procedure, the customs authority may issue a decision in cases in which it fully agrees with the parties in the reduced finding procedure on the form, which will also help to speed up and reduce costs. In the area of offences, we are coordinating provisions with material European legislation, reducing the number of offences prescribed and adapting to the prescribed amounts of fines. Some decline and, on the other hand, raise the threshold for determining offences of which nature is particularly severe. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of all the above, I propose that you support the proposal for a law in the second and also in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 22nd session. 4. 2016 as a parent working body has considered the Proposal for a Law implementing the customs legislation of the European Union submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In its consideration of the draft law, the Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the letters of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial and Tourism Council and the amendments tabled by the coalition groups to the individual article of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service and the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance clarified the objectives and solutions of the bill. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service made specific comments on an article of the bill. For some comments, the service received an explanation from the Ministry and other comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled. In the debate, the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia presented the issue of the regulation of customs representatives and drew attention to the possibility of abuse and lack of education in this area. However, the members also highlighted the issue of the withdrawal of the licence and the fact that this would affect the performance of the operation of the customs representatives. However, some other members pointed out that there would be an unequal situation between customs agents if, in Slovenia, there were stricter criteria for carrying out the task of customs representative than elsewhere in the European Union; and considered that this would only remove administrative barriers. In the course of the discussion, the State Secretary provided all the necessary additional clarifications. The Committee considered the amendments tabled below to each article of the bill and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. He then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of the Modern Centre Parties, in its name mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Law implementing the customs legislation of the European Union is therefore a new law which has been drawn up with a view to adapting the existing national customs legislation to a new customs legislative package at European Union level. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we welcome the main solutions to the law, which means eliminating administrative burdens, reducing the costs for the debtors and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, accelerating the implementation of customs procedures and the commitment to a more friendly business with the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Economic operators will be able to obtain certificates of origin not only at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, but also at the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which will facilitate the process of obtaining such a certificate. The draft law facilitates the obligations of the parties to public administration, since the law no longer requires the submission of documentation laid down by the rules on the regulation of the premises and the construction of the facilities, in the case of interventions to the premises or construction of facilities in the free zones. With the application of this law, the actual implementation of customs procedures for economic operators will not change significantly, as a transitional period is foreseen allowing the application of applications, decisions and data requirements based on existing paper-based systems or forms until the complete introduction of the information technology system by the end of 2020. The text of the law is also in line with the law governing the Financial Administration and the law governing the tax procedure. If the electronic system is not used for service in accordance with the customs legislation of the European Union, all documents may be served electronically in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure. In simple cases where the customs authority complies with the customer’s requirements, documents may also be served by electronic mail if the customer has communicated an electronic address to the customs authority; this will greatly simplify the existing procedures. In summary, in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we will support the Law implementing the customs legislation of the European Union because the law eliminates administrative burdens, reduces the costs for the debtors and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and promotes existing customs procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in its name mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u82	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the first consideration of the draft law on the implementation of the customs legislation of the European Union, which required the adaptation of the existing national customs legislation at European Union level by means of a new law on the implementation of customs legislation. The main objectives of this proposed law are to define more precisely the Union legislation whose implementation is governed by this law, to remove administrative burdens, to reduce the costs for the debtors and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, to facilitate existing procedures, to harmonise the text with the law governing the Financial Administration and with the law governing the tax procedure. We will not oppose any proposed amendments or draft law implementing the customs legislation of the European Union because of all the changes proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on her behalf Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u84	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Members and Members, welcome again! We have before us a law proposed for a new legislative package at Union level. The existing national customs legislation needs to be adapted as the new customs code and the three regulations governing this area enter into force on 1 May. It was precisely because of extensive changes that a new law governing customs legislation was proposed in one place. Let me start by mentioning that we will unanimously support him in the Desus Group. The law removes the administrative burden of fulfilling customs obligations and reduces the costs for the debtors from the point of view of fulfilling their obligations and for the Financial Administration from the point of view of customs control. In addition, it promotes existing procedures while at the same time allowing users access to the necessary information in as simple a way as possible. In the future, economic operators will be able to obtain certificates of origin from the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the Financial Administration, which will facilitate the process of obtaining such evidence. In order to intervene in the premises or construction of facilities in the free zone, it will no longer be necessary to provide the documentation laid down by the rules on the regulation of the premises and the construction of the facilities so that the applicant will be burdened. In simple cases, documents will be served via e-mail, which will greatly simplify existing procedures. In the Desus Group we strongly support the removal of these administrative obstacles. During the hearing, there were doubts about the termination of licensing, which must be acknowledged that in the amendment to the law adopted last year, we had foreseen the suspension of licensing for customs agents or for freight forwarders. The draft law lays down the conditions under which customs activities may be carried out and must also be fulfilled by the freight forwarder abroad. A higher demanding standard would make our freight forwarders abroad more difficult to operate, as foreign freight forwarders with less regulation would make it easier for us to compete. As regards the fear that customs duties would not be paid due to the deregulation of the profession, it was ensured that these were secured by a bank guarantee, which constitutes a guarantee that the service would be paid. For this reason, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The proposal for a law implementing the customs legislation of the European Union follows the fact that, with effect from 1 May of this year, it will enter into force a regulation representing the so-called customs union. The European Union, as an area without internal customs duties, shall, together, draw up and implement customs rules in business with other parts of the world. Since its entry into the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia has been part of this system. The fact is that customs Union rules are also directly applicable and their transposition into national law is not necessary; however, there are some areas where Member States have the possibility of national regulation. Not only in Slovenia, but also in Germany, Austria and the Netherlands, this is regulated by a specific law implementing the customs rules of the European Community. However, some of the major solutions that relate to this law and also to the specifics in our area are in the direction of reducing administrative barriers. Administrative simplifications relate to electronic operations, document service, data coordination on declarations and also in the Free Zone documentation – that is to say, an investor who needs or wants to build a facility in a free zone will not need to submit all the documentation, as provided for by the rules on the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings, which will certainly greatly simplify all procedures and probably also raise the demand for construction in free zones in Slovenia. A few more dilemmas have been the fact that following the implementation of customs legislation in Slovenia, further education or the fulfilment of certain conditions necessary to enable a legal entity to carry out an activity in the field of customs representation has been obtained. It is therefore an additional regulation of the profession which was or is still in force in Slovenia. About 80% of companies doing so in Slovenia have such a regulated profession or acquired activity. With a new solution, we are opening this market in a way that, as already has an authorised economic operator, will have the possibility to carry out customs representation in Slovenia in the same way as in other countries; at the same time, if an entity does not have the status of authorised economic operator, it will be able to register this activity in Slovenia. Here a small dilemma has arisen as to whether we can monitor such cases closely enough. There is a very low risk that this would result in a loss of duty on the State due to the relevant insurance. The law also lays down clear provisions on the competence of the authorities, in particular the Financial Administration, to facilitate procedures for issuing and obtaining certificates of origin of goods and procedures for handling goods otherwise subject to restrictions. The law provides a clear framework for the continued success of all those operating on international markets; and we hope that our companies will also adapt adequately and prepare themselves for the new conditions of law. We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, on her behalf by Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Dogma teaches the benefits of free trade that customs a priori are something bad. This dogma was developed by English liberals 200 years ago. It expressed the interests of an imperialist country that had the most developed industry in the world and wanted to impose an unequal exchange on other countries. For 200 years, economics students have been studying the fictional case of Portugal, which is supposed to benefit from free trade with England. Anyone who knows at least a small amount of economic history knows that Portugal has not benefited from special relations with the UK, as it has not benefited from integration into the single European market and from taking over the euro. On the contrary, Portugal is today the saddest example in Greece, which is practically without its own industry and development, so that today the Portuguese move to their underdeveloped colonies, such as Brazil and Mozambique, even Angola. At the time of the first crisis after Portugal’s entry into the euro area, renowned IMF economist Oliver Blanchard advised Portugal to suspend investment in high technologies and to develop Florida-type tourism – that is, services for English and German pensioners who would move to cheap Portugal. This is more or less the model that Brussels and Berlin have foreseen for the entire European periphery; Slovenia is worth it. The use of customs is a fully legitimate economic policy whereby European countries can resist social and environmental dumping organised by world capital in the third world, as well as the United States environmental dumping. However, contrary to what is in the interest of the European economy and employees, the European Commission is forcing investment agreements with third-world countries and the so-called TTIP. The only analysis made for the Slovenian economy showed that positive effects on Slovenian export companies would be negligible. On the other hand, the adoption of the TTIP will reduce the number of employees in the farm, which is our paradoxical industry, as well as in agriculture, which has an extremely important social function for us. Otherwise, it is clear that these agreements are not about reducing customs duties that are already so negligiblely low; and it is clear that the US industry will also have problems. The interest is in the penetration of the US-British financial and legal sector into European countries and in the protection of property. To this end, we would like to abolish the jurisdiction of state courts over multinationals. This is an extremely dangerous move. In 2005, American multinational Western Wireless International founded Vega. As the investment failed, Western Wireless sued the state and Mobile for EUR 209 million. The action was dismissed in court, and I hope to state that private arbitration would have awarded the company compensation that the citizens would have paid as the owners of Mobitel. While this law does not directly affect the customs policy of the European Union, our political class in this area has completely waived its powers by entering the European Union. However, it regulates some of the foreign affairs, and we cannot support it as well. By lobbying employers, there has been a substantial reduction in penalties for offenders, for which there is no reasonable reason. Once again, it is logical to protect businesses, such as companies of humanitarian establishments that do services to workers; not the other way around, that they are organisations that allow capital owners to serve at the expense of foreign work. In a country with a tax debt of 1.4 billion, there is no reason to give up on tax discipline. Customs, as few as they are, are part of this tax discipline. In preparing the law, the government gave in to another requirement of so-called economists. It reduced the documentation requirements for the construction of facilities in free-carinic zones. After the news, Furs will issue a permit without looking into the project file. This is a new case of double treatment. Citizens must play a full role with all the certificates, and businesses do not have to. But when there's damage in the space, no one answers. On the basis of everything said in the United Left, we will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on its behalf, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Republic of Slovenia is a full member of the European Union, which was decided at the referendum of the citizen and citizens of that country. With effect from 1 May, the new customs legislation, the Union Customs Code and the three implementing Regulations shall apply at European Union level in 11 days, and national customs legislation should also be adapted. The current law was passed in 2004 and was amended twice last July. As part of last year's efforts to eliminate administrative burdens and deregulation of professions, the new Law on the Implementation of the Customs Regulations of the European Community prepared conditions for the conduct of representation in customs procedures; with the start of this deregulation with effect from 1 May of this year. This proposal, however, regulates, in accordance with the new legislation of the European Union, the way in which persons participate in customs procedures are trained or educated; as one of the ways in which relevant professional knowledge can be demonstrated. These trainings are primarily intended for those persons who wish to benefit from certain benefits in the implementation of customs procedures, such as obtaining the status of an authorised economic operator. However, the possibility of inclusion in these trainings is open to all participants in customs procedures. Economic operators will be able to obtain new certificates of origin from the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Until now it has been possible to obtain certificates only at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. This will facilitate the process of obtaining such evidence, while allowing for the advance validation of such certificates under certain conditions and thus simplifying their acquisition for economic operators. It also simplifies the service of documents in the implementation of customs legislation. All documents will normally be served electronically using an electronic system in accordance with Union customs legislation or in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure. In addition, at the request of the parties in simple cases in which the customs authority complies with the customer's requirements, documents may be served by electronic mail, which will greatly simplify and speed up existing procedures. Under the conditions for operation in free zones, the obligation to submit extensive construction documentation laid down by the rules on the regulation of the premises and the construction of buildings shall be abolished for interventions to the premises or construction of facilities in the free zone. This relieves the parties of the costs associated with the submission of this dossier. The draft law also provides a solution whereby, in the event of full consent, the customs authority may, under certain conditions, issue a decision to harmonise the data on the customs declaration in the summary finding procedure on the form. With regard to the fixing of the time limit for payment of the amount of customs debt duties, account shall be taken of the maximum period allowed by the Union Customs Law Regulation for payment of duties, i.e. 10 days. The proposal also amends the provisions on offences, reduces the number of offences prescribed and reduces the maximum prescribed fines for certain entities. On the other hand, it also raises the threshold for determining offences of which nature is particularly severe. Christian Democrats support the proposed harmonisation of legislation with the rules of the European Union. We are also pleased that the proposal brings a number of administrative simplifications and burdens. We hope that the optimisation will also be felt as soon as possible by the part of the economy that is most concerned by legislation in this area. As expressed and understood from the position presented, MEPs and Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a law implementing the customs legislation of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to agenda 18A, this is on the proposal for a decision on the framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u92	Dear Members and honourable Members! You have before you a decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the state sector for the period 2017 to 2019. This is the first framework for the preparation of budgets prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act. The Framework Decision sets out the target deficit and the maximum possible amount of expenditure for each financial year for the country sector as a whole, and sets out the target balances and ceilings of expenditure for four public funding treasury. The framework, in accordance with the requirements of the Fiscal Rule Act, lays down limits for the next three years, 2017, 2018 and 2019. An integral part of the material is also the draft Stability Programme 2016, which provides a substantive explanation of the figures in the framework. The adoption of a decision on the framework in the National Assembly is a key substantive novelty compared to the previous years, when the medium-term fiscal framework in the form of the Stability Programme was adopted by the Government; the National Assembly took note of its content, which is intended to provide for a future fiscal policy. As you know, by implementing the Fiscal Rule Act, the power to decide on fiscal policy frameworks has been transferred to the National Assembly. In this way, in line with the constitutional provision, it is expected to achieve greater respect for the limits in the preparation of annual budgets and financial plans, as restrictions will be more binding than if they were accepted only by the Government. On the basis of the limitations set out in the decree, the Government's task remains to prepare measures to ensure compliance with the objectives set out in the Framework. All of this constitutes such a basis for the preparation of annual budgets and financial plans for the institutional units of the State sector in order to ensure compliance with public financial rules. The proposal for a decree is based on the spring forecast of the macroeconomic indicators of Umar. The amount of the target balance of the State sector and the maximum amount of expenditure shall be determined taking into account the legal provisions which require the State to gradually achieve the medium-term balance of public finances. The Fiscal Rule Act provides that until Slovenia reaches its medium-term fiscal objective, a transitional period and the rule that the structural deficit must be phased out in a way that is consistent with the Stability and Growth Pact. The convergence rate of the Fiscal Rule Act does not prescribe, nor does it prescribe, a formula for calculating the ceiling of expenditure in the coming period. In order to phase out the deficit in line with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact, the Government foresees that, with the existing methodology of the European Commission and the conversion of the Ministry of Finance, the balance of public finances of the sector can be achieved without a negative impact on economic growth by gradually reducing the deficit by 2020. The key focus in the coming years will be to limit the growth of public spending by lagging behind the growth of public finances. In this way, despite the increase in expenditure, the deficit is gradually decreasing. The measures planned by Slovenia in the medium term to address the structural deficit are presented in the attached draft Stability Programme. When planning public finances, we focus on structural measures that will have a lasting impact on the structure and effectiveness of public finances. The key structural measures to achieve the objectives of public finances in the area of revenue-enhancing, which will not affect the increase in the tax burden, include restructuring the burden of public benefits, reducing administrative barriers and improving the efficiency of the collection of public benefits; all with a view to redistributing the burden of increasing competitiveness. The public expenditure policy will be relatively restrictive and will mainly cover the transfer of the relevant short-term measures, which have been established in the past in the ZUJF, ZIPRS and the agreement on measures to reduce the volume of wage funds and other public sector labour costs for 2015 to systemic legislation. The other measures will, however, be replaced by other systemic measures to achieve comparable financial effects. We are redirecting the subsidies to reimbursements, raising the level of investment, and we are also looking forward to accelerating the absorption of European Union funds. The envisaged fiscal policy also fulfils the debt criterion, as our debt decreases in line with the Stability and Growth Pact requirements by one twentieth of the surplus to 60% of GDP per year. In this way, the government insists on the planned path for the structural balance of the sector to be the state after assessing the balance in 2020 when we reach our medium-term fiscal target. In particular, the calculation of the target balances and the ceiling for expenditure therefore follows from the Stability and Growth Pact after the structural deficit has been reduced by 0,6 % per year. On this basis, the assumption of a cycle economy based on the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, taking into account the methodology of the European Commission and Umar's spring economic forecasts, calculated the country's target nominal deficit, in line with the required reduction of the structural deficit by 0.6% per year. The target balance is then based on the projected revenues of the sector and on the calculation of the maximum amount of expenditure of the sector by country for each year. The proposal for a framework ahead of you thus sets out the country's target balance for each of these three years following the ESA methodology of 1.6% of GDP for the product in 2017; 1% in 2018 and 0.4% in 2019. According to the sector’s target balance, the country for each year also sets the highest expenditure levels of the country’s sector, namely 18 billion 419 million in 2017, 18 billion 537 million in 2018 and 18 billion 584 million in 2019. The framework for each year also lays down, with the restrictions mentioned above, the coherent objectives of the pension and health balance balance, which will be balanced during this period. The same assumption applies to all municipalities together, while the state budget for the period 2017-2019 will continue to show deficits according to the cash flow methodology. In doing so, it should be stressed that our assessment of the cyclical situation of the Slovenian economy differs from that of the European Commission, which suggests overheating the economy. The European Commission's assessments do not reflect reality, because there is deflation in Slovenia, we have surplus in the current part of the balance of payments, and this is very large, and unemployment is above the long-term average. The level of investment, industrial production, and also the rate of growth of gross domestic product are not at the level of the crisis, so we cannot claim simply on the basis of the common methodology of the European Union, as stated by the Commission, that the Slovenian economy is overheating; especially since the calculations of other international institutions, the International Monetary Fund and the OECD, for example, do not confirm this. Finally, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the sixth paragraph of Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act, the Government still has the possibility that, in the case of changed circumstances, when the state budget is submitted for adoption by the National Assembly, it will also propose a change to the framework. This is particularly crucial as the calculations on which the framework is based are extremely volatile and dependant on changes in input data. In order to allow for the need for changes, experience has shown in the preparation of this year's Stability Programme, when it has been shown that a few weeks apart there may be major fluctuations in data on the past deficit by Surs or Eurostat, as well as major changes in the European Commission and Umar's forecast, making it difficult to prepare these documents. Notwithstanding what has been said in terms of ensuring compliance with fiscal policy, the Fiscal Rule Act is an appropriate framework. I therefore hope that today, in the proposed form, it will be adopted and that on this basis we will be able to focus as soon as possible on the preparation of budgets for the next two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 55th urgent session. 4. 2016 as a parent working body considered the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In addition to the proposal for a decree, the Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, a letter from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia dated 14. 4. 2016 and amendment of the coalition groups to Article 2 and Article 3 of the draft decree. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service were present at the meeting of the Committee. The introductory supplementary explanation was given by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, who said that this was a new document which had the legal basis in Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act. At the same time, she presented all the hands arising from this law and which the Government and the National Assembly must take into account when considering the draft decree. It further presented the content of the proposal for a resolution and provided further explanations on the draft Stability Programme, which is an act incorporating policies and measures to achieve the objectives set out in the proposal for a resolution. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Service had comments relating mainly to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the draft decree, which had been taken into account in the amendments tabled. As regards the comment on Article 3 concerning the target balance of the sector, however, the government provided an additional explanation. In the debate, the procedure for the adoption of the draft decision was highlighted according to its important content and the question of the methodology used. The need for more information and further clarifications was also highlighted. With regard to content, the question of consolidation of public finances was raised, particularly in the context of social transfers, the health sector, the return of funds to recapitalisation of banks into the budget and the lack of concrete measures. Members and members wanted data on the volume of revenue and expenditure for the period 2017 to 2019 after each year. It was pointed out that Slovenia is part of an unstable international economic and political environment, on which export-oriented Slovenia is particularly dependent. The debate also drew attention to an unestablished fiscal world. However, some members felt that a decision should be adopted in accordance with the applicable Fiscal Rule Act, which obliges us to do so; and that it is suitable for further consideration. They also stressed the need for the establishment of the Fiscal Council and for further coordination on individual treasury budgets. In the course of the debate, the Secretary of State replied to the questions raised and provided further clarifications. At the time of its consideration, the Committee also identified and adopted amendments to Articles 2 and 3. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the draft decree and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in its name mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u96	Honourable Chairman; Honourable Minister of Finance Dr. Marble, colleague and colleague! We have before us a decree on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for 2017, 2018 and 2019 under Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the budget is probably the most important document adopted by the National Assembly, the most important document for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the adoption of the fiscal rule, this law also travels for the first time in the history of the National Assembly, in order to address the decision on the framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector. So today we face again one of the most important documents. This document has already addressed the working body of the mother – the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already regretted that, unfortunately, the Minister of Finance was not present on this committee. The Minister of Finance has taken the time today to be present; I think this is commendable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect the Minister of Finance to provide some additional clarifications on this important document. We have already proposed on the committee in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the decision should be withdrawn or that the Committee on Finance should be suspended, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that one of the key conditions is missing is that this decision should be prepared in a qualitative manner so that we can discuss this in the State Assembly or in the Committee in a qualitative manner; namely, the Fiscal Council. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that the Fiscal Council, which should have been appointed a long time ago, did not receive sufficient support in the National Assembly. Under the Fiscal Rule Act, it is a fact that for the appointment of a fiscal council as one of the key bodies here, which could also be called a supervisory authority or a supervisory council, which should actually be an independent body, which would somehow also have a hand over the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; or acting in accordance with fiscal law. With regard to the two-thirds majority required in the National Assembly; this has not been achieved in the proposal of three members, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition of the Modern Centre, Desus and Social Democrats are responsible here for several reasons. If the coalition knows that the law provides for a two-thirds majority, at least in my opinion, it should take a step forward and establish a quality dialogue with the opposition as well; for you do not have a two-thirds majority in this House alone. Cooperation with the opposition is needed, as you have repeatedly stressed, but unfortunately these are only your words, coalitions, that you want some constructive cooperation with opposition parliamentary groups. But you don't do that in action. We should take the time to knock on the door of opposition parliamentary groups and jointly determine who are the eligible members of the Fiscal Council. But you chose your way, you chose three names, and you sent them to the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the decision on the framework for the preparation of the country's budgets for 2017, 2018 and 2019 cannot be adequate without the Fiscal Council. We have already pointed out this to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. This decree sets out the country’s target balance, which means the maximum amount of expenditure incurred by the State for 2017, 2018 and 2019; Article 2 of the Fiscal Rule and Institutional Unit Act under Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act — State budget, municipalities, pension and health insurance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also warned on the Committee that, in our opinion, or we believe that this material prepared by the Government of Mir Cerar is likely to be insufficient in the greatest light with the Ministry of Finance. Once again, we are talking about the most important document adopted by the National Assembly; and if we consider the parts included in this material, we can read the contents on about eight pages. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that eight sides are significantly too small for such an important document. Eight pages could also be enough if the content of these eight pages were quality and concrete; but this is not the case. However, we can probably explain these steps in a way that is also self-evident that this coalition and the government of Mir Cerar will always take their own course and that they do not take into account the proposals and comments we have on the opposition parliamentary groups. The fact is that the budget for 2016 and 2017, adopted by this National Assembly under the tactics of Finance Minister Dr. Marble and Prime Minister Mir Cerar, was adopted for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia without the amendments adopted by the opposition. This means that none of the opposition's amendments were adopted by this coalition when the 2016 and 2017 budget was adopted. This has happened for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that this clearly speaks of how this coalition works. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the State Secretary who was present did not provide appropriate answers to a number of questions raised by the opposition parliamentary groups. If we move forward, there is a high risk of not complying with European rules, according to Brussels' latest assessment of this year's Slovenian budget, and the European Commission and Brussels are fundamentally pointing to a lack of fiscal effort. We have also repeatedly warned Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party about the lack of fiscal effort in this mandate, but the coalition and the Ministry of Finance have not responded. What did the head of the Eurogroup, Mr Dysselbloem, say? "Slovenia must be prepared to do more to comply with European budgetary rules." In its opening remarks, Mr Disselbloem recalled the message by the Eurogroup that Slovenia did not guarantee what it had promised with regard to the fiscal rule, which is that it would actually reduce the structural deficit. In the European Group's documents, Slovenia is expected to have a structural deficit of 2.8 GDP in the euro area in 2017, which means that after this data, the Eurogroup Summit will be followed by a deficit in the euro area. I think this may also be some worrying information, but we have also warned several times in the Slovenian Democratic Party about these issues. We have already warned about the adoption of the 2016 and 2017 budgets adopted by this coalition of SMC, Desus and SD parties. It should be stressed that, when these two budgets were adopted for 2016 and 2017, the Commission for Public Finance Supervision also adopted a conclusion that these two budgets are lacking. At that time, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission specifically pointed out that there are no structural deficit data in the budgets, which is also important by the application of Article 148 of the Constitution of Slovenia and also in relation to the Fiscal Rule Act; and that the Financial Ministry has not yet prepared documents relating to the fiscal rule on the annual fulfilment of the conditions for the provision of a fiscal rule. What we have already pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party in adopting the budgets for 2016 and 2017 is that they are weak, that the most important data are missing in relation to the structural deficit, and that the question of the reality of the planned revenue and planned expenditure is also now being raised by the European Commission. What is most worrying about this Brussels report is, at least for the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Minister of Finance's statements that the Eurogroup's forecast is related to migration costs and different methodologies and that they are irrelevant and misleading. For in the 2016 budget, a solution was adopted on the basis of a special amendment to provide an additional €132 million in the migration budget. The European Union methodology for calculating the structural deficit is also clear, transparent and well-known in advance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would understand if Dr Marble's Minister of Finance were to discuss the methodology at some academic level rather than as Minister of Finance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the European Group's forecast for the Slovenian structural deficit actually represents a fiasco for Minister Marble, for the Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Mir Cerar and for the entire coalition of the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus; for you, the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government, have promised Members and Members in this National Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that Slovenia is going in the right direction on the deficit. Now it turns out that the structural deficit is becoming a rakrano of Slovenian finances. And we are convinced that the Minister of Finance has neither the credibility nor the power to change matters in any way and to put matters in the right direction. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we stress that we are, after the sustainability of the public finances on the European Union's tail, and that is why the Eurogroup of Slovenia has degraded from groups of countries that are largely in line with European budgetary rules to a group of countries where there is a risk of non-compliance with the rules. This means that Slovenia has been demolished. We were demolished at the very time of this government and precisely this coalition. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that Slovenia, which adopted a fiscal rule last year in the Constitution, should not be able to afford this deficit at all. The reasons for such a situation are clear, but the indecisiveness of this government, the indecisiveness of this coalition. You will have a mandate for almost two years, and you have not brought any reform into this National Assembly, nor have you been able to make any reform in more than one and a half years. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that in order to reduce the structural deficit and that the budget of Slovenia will be in line with the fiscal rule, we urgently need reform. And this government, this coalition in the National Assembly, is unable to bring about any reform, and this certainly shows how you feel about this issue. The recommendations made for Slovenia by the European Commission should also be highlighted, namely privatisation, improvement of the business environment, further fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. Not only the opposition, but also the European Commission draws attention to these five key problems facing Slovenia. And if the necessary structural reforms are not adopted, the structural deficit in Slovenia will be the highest in the European area in 2017. Some estimates are that it should be 2.8%, which means it could be twice as high as the euro area average. And all this information is worrying. A well-respected coalition, honourable coalition members and Members, will have to take its mandate and your responsibility more seriously. During the last period we have witnessed that you are mostly dealing with yourself and that you are dealing with, probably mostly, also with staffing; but if at least this recruitment was successful, but we see that the recruitment on your side is also very unsuccessful and especially to the detriment of Slovenian taxpayers. If we don't have a fiscal world, the same story has been done at our biggest bank. This means that the bank is so-called without a supervisory board or there are three members of the supervisory board missing, in fact, we have the d.e. President of the NLB administration and the coalition does nothing. A few more current data that we have been able to understand from publicly available data, namely that the state budget last month had as much as €324 million deficits, which is the biggest hole this year; this means € 139 million more than last March. This represents 324 million deficits, and compared to the year before – 139 million more. Overall, after three months of government budget deficits amount to 569 million, 103 million euros less than in the first quarter of last year. We've recorded a 2% increase in current consumption. The revenue of the state budget after three months amounts to little more than €1.9 billion and is below €39 million in the first three months. The decline is largely due to smaller inflows from European funds, excise duty has also risen less than last March, excise duty has risen by 32 million euros less. It should be pointed out that this government, this coalition, the only things you have brought into this national assembly, are raising tax burdens for taxpayers and for the economy and raising excise duties. And now you can see that all this revenue is lower than it was a year ago. And we have warned about all of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, because of everything that has been said, we cannot support the country's framework for the preparation of the sector's budget. We have not supported it on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, nor will we support it today. And the fact is that we remind all the opposition parties of the great problems this coalition has, but unfortunately, you are not following or listening here. This will have to be addressed and it must be said that you take great responsibility for all the moves and for all the decisions you make.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mr Uroš Prikl, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government, Mr. Minister! First of all, let me say that in the Desus Group we will support the Proposal for a Decision on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2017 to 2019. What is the legal basis for this document? It's the Fiscal Rules Act. The law sets two key objectives: the country’s target balance as a whole and individual public treasury financing and the maximum possible amount of expenditure for the state sector and individual public treasury financing, namely for the state budget, the local community budget and the pension and disability allowance. The document that we are discussing today, which is under discussion and I do not want to underestimate it in any way, is virtually no special news, a special novelty, since the planning of the country's target balance and the maximum possible level of expenditure of individual institutional units has already been the practice we have implemented under the Stability Programme. The only news is that we now have a special act, a special document – a decree defining the country's financial plans for the next three years. This decree is based on the adopted Fiscal Rule Act. Therefore, according to the commitments given, we have almost no room for manoeuvre for substantive design or co-forming. However, to begin with, I must express a somewhat critical view of our parliamentary group – the Desus Group – on the substantive part of this act. It must be acknowledged that in our Group we expected a more extensive, perhaps more reasoned explanation of individual articles, including specific objectives and measures for, for example, individual public treasury. Just the content on a few pages and relatively, I'm speaking relatively, skopa explanations is a fact. A number of concrete – and further – needs to be explained also because this decree provides the basis for the country's budget. And we will be very precise, very careful and very constructive in the same breath when the specific rules for the adoption of the budget, the countries and the two cash registers are also being prepared. That is why we cannot pass this warning in this place that the pensioner’s box office, the ZPIZ, cannot and can not keep me from being mutilated. At no time will we allow the coordination of pensions to be called into question in our parliamentary group. This is an area where Members of Parliament and Members of Desus simply do not see any room for tightening the belt, we do not see any room for excuses in the provision of decent and fair rights that go to all pensioners and pensioners. Of course, we will insist. The fact is, the whole world, the whole of Europe, if you want, faces population ageing. The number of the older working population will double several years later, and the Republic of Slovenia is no exception. For this reason, in our Group of Members, we are aware that it is really difficult to expect satisfactory financial coverage for all measures taken, but we will have to pull our own species together and take real priority. In our parliamentary group, we know our priorities and this is primarily the social security of all peoples, so it is more than necessary to complete the reserve demographic fund and to adopt the Long-term Care and Personal Assistance Act, which will certainly contribute to the overall and comprehensive provision of the favourable position of all citizens regardless of age. Yesterday, we also received assurances from the President of the Government that this and all of this can give hope to us, especially to citizens and citizens. The Stability Programme, which further explains the financial framework set out in each cash public funding framework, also shows projections of the long-term sustainability of public finances. As a result of negative demographic trends, expenditure on ca pensions is expected to be incurred. 11.5% increased to slightly above 15% in 2060; while spending on long-term care by 2020 should already rise to around 3%. The poor demographic picture therefore remains a key challenge for the sustainability of the pension and health system, the pension and health treasury within the established public financial framework. I therefore appeal once again that now is indeed the time for us to form and adopt a law on the demographic reserve fund. Reforms – yes; in particular, smart and bold examination of the situation and action under existing legislation. Support for the proposed budget framework will be a little easier in the Desus Group, or we will provide support mainly for the guardian, so that, in the case of substantially modified, tight macroeconomic changes, this document can be amended together with changes to the state budget; all in the interest of preserving and providing the social state. On conclusion; MEPs and members of Desus will adopt a motion for a decree desiring to give effect to the actual wishes of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The proposal for a regulation on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019 is a new document which has its legal basis in Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act, which speaks of the setting in this document of the target balance and the maximum amount of expenditure for the state budget, the target total balance and the maximum total amount of expenditure for municipal budgets, the maximum amount of expenditure for the pension fund and the maximum amount of expenditure for the health treasury. The most important targets are set out in this decree by 2019 and of course we welcome the procedure adopted within the Fiscal Rule Act to be decided on by the National Assembly. However, we can be a little less satisfied with the weight of the document and the determination of this target balance with the data that the National Assembly actually has at its disposal when it adopts such an important document. While the fact is that the primary surplus of 0.8% of gross domestic product was created in 2015 for the first time since 2008, the primary deficit was 1.7% of gross domestic product. The country's total revenue increased by 4 % in 2015 and the total expenditure nominally decreased by 1,7 %. And if we look at the forecast then the country's deficit for 2016 is estimated at EUR 871 million or 2.2% of gross domestic product. And the country's gross consolidated debt is expected to amount to just over €31.6 billion or 79.9% of gross domestic product at the end of 2016. How important the precise data are and how important real planning is, is already the result of this paragraph, which is already contained in the Stability Programme, which is an annex to the resolution that we are considering today. In the fact that, in the event of a decision to rehabilitate banks, we had, in particular, flawed assumptions on economic growth in 2013 and 2014, where, in fact, it was found that the decline in economic growth should have been by just 7 % in two years; in fact, we are recording and recording, as shown in this data, economic growth. This calculation error still occurs in this Stability Programme, and consequently also in a decree setting out a framework for the preparation of the country's budgets from 2017 to 2019. And this is the burden that we are obviously still carrying in our acts; and it should certainly be cleared of this issue, which occurred in the recapitalisation of banks, which we can estimate was exaggerated due to the wrong forecasts of economic growth. And in the future, when we look at the promise of Umar, we are expected to see lower economic growth again. In 2016, economic growth will be 1.7%, which is less than the last two years, when it is around 3%. In 2015 it was 2.9% and in 2014 it was 3%. Again, it is an extremely important forecast that economic growth will be lower. However, the justification for the decline in economic growth is mainly based on a lower level of absorption from the new European financial perspective. This is the kind of information that we can say that we knew all along that it would happen, because the transition from one financial perspective to another has always led to a stalemate in the drawing up of funds, in the preparation of documentation for drawing on funds due to possible changes in the drawing principles and also to the change in the scope of the drawing option for each sector. At this point, much more could be done precisely in planning the construction of the second track, for which we have been able to obtain non-refundable funding all the time, even to the extent of almost 80% of this investment. Here is the drawback to this period 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019. This is certainly something that must at least lead us to make sure that, despite the stagnation in this investment, we are trying to obtain the remaining grants available and thus mitigate these forecasts that have been made in the event of the economic downturn. The fact that we have also pre-capitalised banks is, and must be, a more important starting point in these three years, also the fact that we have the capital most appropriate banks within the Eurosystem. Why not use this capital to stimulate investment, and why not make use of this fact? Only through investments will we be able to help to continue to reduce unemployment, which is written down as one that will decrease in this three-year period; but after the end of this three-year period, unemployment will continue to be at a higher level than before the start of the economic crisis, that is, before 2008. The fact that we have lost as many as 60,000 jobs since 2007 and 2008 by 2012 is the answer or the fact that we need to find an answer to how we will improve the sustainability of the pension fund, which is an integral part of this decree, as well as the health treasury. More than employees, there are, of course, more contributions to both registers; and also more private spending, which also contributes greatly to economic growth. The higher state budget is also more appropriate, and municipal budgets may be more appropriate. We can assess that we have much more options than we want to recognise in this document right now. It is also important that, on the basis of the available data, this decree can also be supplemented and implemented, we hope that better data is provided by Umar in his report on expected economic growth. Above all, there will be a real need to invest significantly more energy in investment and thus create jobs and better conditions for employment; as the data given in the decree on labour market movement is also being observed, demographic movements will increasingly be present, mainly due to the decline in the number of working-age people; this is the period from 20 to 64. Family policy is also one of those challenges that will need to be substantially more ambitious if we are to avoid the context of countries that are found to be ageing. We can and must be more ambitious in the future than this moment can be recorded in this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the House of Respect! I have to repeat myself like yesterday when we were in the opposition against making an extension of the agenda. What's this all about? Beyond some so-called key economic indicators, the indicators that are now juggling here are basically about how this society, this country, will live until the end of this decade. That's it. If we look at it in any way, the hall is essentially empty, and we have a total of 64 attendances of 17 or 18. We're from the opposition three here. Why is that, he has already said in part from the opposition before me. I will take my position on the United Left two-partite. First, I'll give you our position, take a look at this; then I'll give you a comment. I will not stop at the technical shortcomings or ambiguities of the proposals in the first part, where there are some minor matters against the fact, what can be considered in the proposal itself and in the wording of the Minister at the beginning of this point in the United Left. Firstly, the proposal explicitly foresees additional savings in the area of social protection, although the number of poor, in particular the long-term poor, is increasing and even though the recipients of social assistance are already receiving EUR 100 less than the cost of living and EUR 300 less than the poverty threshold. Yesterday, on behalf of the United Left, I asked the President of the Government. I must say that the answers were, unfortunately, expected and not in the direction of awareness of this issue, let alone a solution. Furthermore, the proposal foresees a reduction of the deficit without an active increase in revenue. In that appendix, if you put on the side of a graph, it has eight pages, on the wrong side there is something little written about the revenue side and even a little bit less about the expenditure. In short, all the measures announced are tax neutral. What does that mean in practice? This means that the government will eliminate everything it acquires at the expense of increased corporate taxation with tax reliefs; for example, it will eliminate 15% of the taxpayers with the highest wages. Moving on, the assurances sent by the Government to Brussels are contrary to the promises it makes to us, citizens and citizens. On the working body, we heard on the committee that it was a matter of haste, because it was supposed to be up to 30. 4. turn it over to Brussels; otherwise the penalty awaits us. We are ensuring the limitation of social protection expenditure in Brussels, and we promised the citizens in the social agreement that this year the government would calculate the cost of living and align the minimum income with them. By adopting a decree that the coalition will obviously burn, it will deliver a real guarantee to Brussels instead of helping the socially disadvantaged in Slovenia. Furthermore, the government also tells citizens that we will go to abolish supplementary health insurance. This procedure is due to be introduced into the parliamentary procedure sometime by June. However, it sends a guarantee to Brussels that it will increase the minimum contributions paid by, say, espeia, among which there are more and more players. The adoption of the decree, if I may say so, will prevail over the interests of the insurance lobby over the interests of the majority of the population, in particular the poor employees. Of course, we will not and cannot support such a decree in the United Left. It is not true that there are no alternatives; of course they are. Slovenia has not been forced by anyone to adopt a fiscal rule that is stricter than European rules. It was just a conscious decision by you, two-thirds of the Members and Members. The decision to deplete the public sector, to reduce the well-being of our people in the interest of capital. Even if we adopt a fiscal rule — or we are — it is not true that we are limited by government expenditure. The deficit closes with two real ones. This is clear to everyone who has ever read a budget, already a budget of a small municipality, on the expenditure side, and also on the revenue side. Obviously, as far as we can see from this volatile document, the government is deliberately cancelling the increase in revenue; the finance ministry is planning to raise tax on profits from companies that are expected to bring 130 million; but not to increase the revenue side, but to release, as I said before, a reduction in income of 15% of the best paid. If the government were to work in the public interest, it would seek to actively increase public revenues. If you had taken little account of the interests of the 300 thousand poorest, you would not have donated this 130 million, but would have spent them to raise social assistance at least to the level of living costs. If I had worked in the public interest, I would have included in the financial plan of the Health Insurance Office and in the budget of the Ministry of Health and the fiscal framework revenue from the duty to replace supplementary health insurance. If the government were to work in the public interest, then the State secretaries would not explain how capital income in Slovenia is sufficiently taxed or very taxed, regulated by the Chamber of Commerce, AmCham and others. The fact is that after taxing capital on the tail of the European Union and the revenues from this title will continue to decline; for example, interest income will be reduced because they are relatively low interest. In short, the government does not work in the public interest, but in the interest of capital. What he's doing is extremely short-sighted. And I'm just going to read what my experts wrote to me, that's kind of a question to the government and to the coalition, let's imagine. How many more times do you think you will fuck people in elections by being the only alternative to being a Slovenian Democratic Party, but then, when you come to power, you will be doing a dictatorship from Brussels exactly the same as a right-wing government?Oh, my God! Now let's go to the file. We have repeatedly reiterated that this document is difficult to take seriously because it is not available. To discuss where we are going to lead this society by the end of the decade, this hall should be broken in the seams, it should be similar to the English Parliament during those most gruesome discussions, when the luft is literally running out, if I say so myself. But we have a relatively empty debate here. If I were to take seriously what the representatives of the Social Democrats and Desus said, I would say that this coalition is about to break down. But first he gets a little puffed up in the way he says in my mother's language – frogs, but then you'll kind of burn it. The messenger who's sitting in front of me here said at the board meeting that he believed in this document, and he wouldn't repeat himself. We decide on very important matters concerning this country and society on the basis of a lack of data. It was written there very clearly, and Mr Minister said this time, "relatively restrictive will be," the Secretary of State said at a meeting of the committee in response to Mr Piklo, that he should not be so optimistic in the promises of the pensioners. We basically do not know how or what not to go to some of the things that some have already started before me – the question of the congregations. The question of municipalities and the financing of municipalities, which is somewhat confused under carpets, sometimes the person feels that this somehow corresponds to a number of mayors and some existing governments; that there is some tension, even though I have repeatedly, because we are seriously analysing it in the United Left, he has made several proposals. One of these suggestions is to consider the scope of the congregation’s mandatory tasks to consider whether all congregations really need to have the same headship. Retirement. The White Paper has now been out, it could be long and wide In fact again it can be seen that in the background there is no substantial, typical consideration of how to curb this society, if I so express myself how to find some new developmental economic, economic model that will respect citizens and citizens, very domestically. [[…]] Or do I live to work to work, and I can't live off it if I can even get to the labour market?Oh, my God! Am I working so that I can live?Oh, my God! Plus economic democracy, plus, if you want, marriage. The government even has a secretary of state for this area, and somehow I don't think something's moving significantly. When you speak from the coalition – conscience, there is no cohesion and therefore we need to squeeze a little; if we depend on this so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called public treasury, then it means that we have not done our homework. This means that we do not think about ourselves or think about our own development. Cohesion should be a diabetes that we are kind of thinking about how we're going to get it into infrastructure development in a way of indivisibility. As I said before, the coalition is pouring ashes, we have an eight-page document attached to it, Mr. Minister is talking about the volatility of the calculations, and it all reminds me of what I have been doing professionally for a quarter of a century, if called GIGO computers – garbage and, garbage out. And unfortunately this debate is going a little in this direction. We made some commitments, that house made a commitment. We have a Europe 2020 strategy, where we have committed ourselves to fighting poverty, where the number of people excluded by 2000 is expected to decrease by 40,000, and in fact the number has increased by 44 000 between 2010 and 2014. That's what I asked Mr. Cerar yesterday. Despite the threat to the public sector, to the social sector and so on, Slovenia is already spending significantly less on social protection than the European average, about 20% less than that. We had a record of a social agreement this year signed on behalf of the Government by the Minister of State Anja Kopač Mrak. It states, I read, "that a calculation of the minimum costs will be made this year and that the minimum income will be aligned with the cost of living". The Ministry of Labour has been promising this since 2009, and we are still where we are. Will the government take into account the promises, the commitments of the 2020 strategy and the social agreement, or are we still in force, or have we forgotten about them, or will we implement them?Oh, my God! If I look at the National Reform Programme, if I look at what Mr Minister says, if I look at the White Paper on pension reform, if I look at it all together, I am on behalf of the United Left, frankly, very skeptical that this will happen. Mr Cerar spoke yesterday about the debt write-offs that you have mutilated, talking about jobs that he obviously doesn't understand, and using a foreigner who somehow reminds me that we're going in the direction of "food stamps" as it is called in the United States of America. Is this the range of this government and this society?Oh, my God! I hope not. I would have concluded this part, that I would still give myself some time with what's called Japanese syndrome. Japan is a society that has had very low economic growth for a long time, and I have been reading some studies recently about it, but it still preserves some quality of life. The International Monetary Fund has recently proposed — you will not believe — the horror, end of the world — to raise public sector wages in Japan. Perhaps Mr. Minister would be unconscious if someone really suggested it from the coalition. Why am I saying this? I am speaking because there are also different approaches and ways of getting out of the crisis that do not forget something. Here we have New Slovenia, we have a Prime Minister who says he is a man of faith, we have a lady head of the Modern Centre Party Group who says the same. But in these suggestions, how will we live for the rest of the decade, my dears, you forget about that – Ecce homo. Where's the man?Oh, my God! Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on its behalf, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Once again a very nice greeting to the Minister with the co-workers! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We, too, in New Slovenia, regret that, as it were, through the back door of this National Assembly, this agenda item arrived at the April meeting of the National Assembly. We expected answers to too many questions on the parent’s working body. We have suggested that this document should at least be suspended, let us say to the next month; but we have simply failed. And we are also wondering if those who voted against our proposals understood why it was going. It is the Slovenian Constitution, the second article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states: Slovenia is a legal and social state. Today I will not discuss so much about the rule of law, a little more about the social state, or better – about financing, ladies and gentlemen, social states. One who promises something either to the government or here in the National Assembly promises people something and does not tell them where he will take it or where he will create it is a social demagog. And we hear examples that one layer of people will get two packets of ice cream per month, that's actually a joke from one layer of people. The one who doesn't say where he's going to create this, where he's going to take this money, is the social demagog. Or in this case, ladies and gentlemen, it will be for the illegal financing of an election campaign by one of the political parties. In accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, the National Assembly is involved in the preparation of a public spending plan for the next three years from the very beginning when the key objectives are set. And here I would like an open Fiscal Rule Act signed by the President of the National Assembly on 10 July last year. And I would like to point to Article 17, which speaks of the adoption of the first framework and also of the resources for the work of the Fiscal Council. And the first paragraph of Article 17 of the Fiscal Rule Act states: "The first proposal of the framework, together with the draft Stability Programme, is forwarded to the National Assembly and the Fiscal Council at least 20 days before the deadline for the intervention of the European Commission's Stability Programme in 2016." But we now have this decree, which is being forwarded to the National Assembly, here I make a hook. This document, and this decree was not transmitted to the Fiscal Council because it's not there. It is therefore an eclectic case of a violation of the law, specifically Article 17 thereof. I will always pay tribute to the Minister of Finance to Dr. Marble, who has made great efforts to win 60 votes here in this house, that we have passed the Fiscal Rule Act. Unfortunately, too little — perhaps too short of time — efforts have been made to form the Fiscal Council. And now, in some way, he's trying to prove himself to the opposition, yes, even to New Slovenia – if you do, it's your fault that we don't have a fiscal world. This is not fair and this is not correct, such claims are not correct. I would like to draw attention to one more article, given that the members of the Fiscal Council in the National Assembly have not received sufficient support. I would like to point out in the second paragraph of Article 9, which reads: "After receiving a notice of expiry or upon receipt of notification that the proposed candidate for a member of the Fiscal Council has not received the necessary majority or has been released prematurely, the Government shall publish an application for application in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia without delay." I didn't see it in the Official Journal. Maybe I read it carefully. That's my next question. Has this call for new candidates for the Fiscal Council already been published? The proposal for a decree on the budget framework that we have before us has arrived at the National Assembly in a situation where, as we all know, we do not have a formed Fiscal Council to keep an eye on numbers, according to our own words. This means that the Government is in breach of the requirements of the Fiscal Rule Act, which was adopted by a two-thirds majority. The fact that the budget for the next three years takes place without the Fiscal Council is unacceptable, colleagues and colleagues. It's unacceptable! As if we do not have a fiscal rule law, as if we do not have provisions of the Constitution. That's unacceptable. So it's all the same. While we have this document, it has been proposed by a government that knowingly violates the law and requires us to confirm this decree in the National Assembly, which has not undergone the legal procedure. And whether I continue or not, it is understood that Members of New Slovenia cannot support this decision. However, we would support it if the government made more efforts to form the Fiscal Council, if the Minister would come to the New Slovenia Group and other opposition parties at least so many times. We want to cooperate constructively, and when we agree on names, then we will also have a fiscal world. However, I can see that there seems to be no interest in getting the Fiscal Council in this mandate at all. The Fiscal Council should ensure independent supervision and assess the proposal for a decision before us. We don't have that grade right now. We strongly condemn the violation of the Law on the Fiscal Rule of Christian Democrats. We call on the coalition, led by the President of the Government and the Finance Minister, to ensure that the law is respected and that the Fiscal Council is established immediately and that we are not forced to think about a constitutional charge. In Novi Slovenija we also note that the controversy regarding the structural deficit is not cleared. The European Commission has highlighted the structural deficit for Slovenia as one of the key problems, and Members have not yet been assured of the implementation of key reforms to reduce them and the reasoned explanations on the methodology for its identification. We read the European Commission report, the State Report – Slovenia 2016 and in this report the European Commission states that Slovenia is facing the highest risk of fiscal sustainability among all Member States. With the highest risk, and that's the problem, that's what worries us. If anyone else in the country, in the National Assembly, in the government – is okay. In Nova Slovenije, we have therefore proposed at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that the Proposal for a Decision on the framework for the preparation of budgets should be presented until these questions regarding the methodology for determining structural deficits are clarified. Unfortunately, our constructive and well-intentioned proposal has not been accepted. We also express our well-intention and constructiveness here once again by calling on the Minister of Finance, if you want the government. If the government does not have enough support to adopt structural reforms in the coalition, then let it also try to win votes in the opposition. When we discuss such important issues as the preparation of the budget by 2019, we could expect a much more inclusive relationship from the coalition, where different opinions, specific figures and legislative provisions are taken into account. In our view, the way in which the government initiated the budget framework procedure is inappropriate. We draw attention to the developed countries at the moment, which are shaping modern economic policy. In Slovenia, however, the government seems to be acting in principle – which it will be. The way the social state is financed is entirely dependent on the economic policy of the country. Slovenia currently spends one billion more than it creates. By 2019, economic policy should first answer the question of how to produce one billion more. Of course, it's not overnight, but at least to have extensions that suggest that we will create more in the long term so that we can fund the social state more effectively. That's what this is about. We all know where money is being created in the country; especially those we have ever been in the real sector. To respond to these challenges, we need first to clarify the important questions about the structural deficit and the full composition of the Fiscal Council. Allow me a few more words about the structural deficit. Structural deficit is, in fact, a Sorry term, a tumor of Slovenian public finances growing somewhere hidden in the protection of healthy economic growth. I must say that here again I agree with Minister Dr. Marble, who says we have economic growth, but this economic growth is very fragile. This also shows some concern and a conservative view of the Minister of Finance. As a result of this structural deficit, Slovenia is becoming a structural patient of Europe. If we do not remove the structural deficit, it will seriously affect us. However, for such an operation, we need appropriate legal tools. The opportunity to establish them is offered when the Public Finance Act is recast. The evolution of the correction of the deficit is set out in Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act and is bound by the European Union Regulations, Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, as appropriate. 1175/2011. If we do not respect dynamics, this will not only violate these two rules, but even violate Article 148 of the Constitution of Slovenia, which is a level of infringement that can trigger impeachment procedures. This year, as well as the next two years, they will by no means be easy. The high economic growth announced by the European Commission will require high structural efforts on our part. Structural efforts, however, mean permanent reductions in expenditure, permanent reductions. While high rates of economic growth, it is difficult for some to understand that expenditure needs to continue to be reduced, but unfortunately there is no other way. Structural adjustments must be made as a matter of urgency. The current economic situation is certainly very favourable for structural adjustment. The projected growth is so high that part of the negative impact that some will have on the loss of revenue from the budget will quickly be compensated by higher inflows from the growing market. The correction of the structural deficit is an excellent investment for future recession periods. If not because of ourselves, we have good starting conditions for entry into future recessions to ensure to future generations, respected colleagues and colleagues. Especially because we also leave them a high level of debt. Further downsizing of expenditure will help us to finally start creating budget surpluses and to reduce the actual and not only the relative volume of debt. At the expense of brutal indebtedness, we have survived the last crisis in a relatively favourable way. Participation in economic growth was also consumed by debt in times of crisis. It is said that we have already consumed economic growth in some way. It is essential to be aware of this fact, as economic growth is unfortunately creating a risk that the structural deficit will start to grow again. The time ahead for economic growth is therefore not a time when we can leave ourselves to unbridled consumption again, but a time to settle past accounts while preparing for new crises. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, for all the above reasons and for many other reasons, unfortunately the New Slovenia Group cannot support this motion for a decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u106	Nice greetings, vice president, minister, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The decree before us today is our first time. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, we will set a so-called fiscal framework for four years in the National Assembly. The Minister said earlier that this was the start of a procedure for the preparation of the state budget. I hope that after a year and a half, when we are here, we all know in this National Assembly that the procedure for adopting the budget is laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; some special procedure which is not equal to the adoption of laws. The Rules of Procedure shall specify the procedure for the adoption of the budget. Dear Minister, there is not a word of this decree in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When adopting the Fiscal Rule Act, I pointed out that the Public Finance Act and the Rules of Procedure would need to be amended. This decree cannot somehow be the start of a budget adoption procedure, as there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, the decree is absolutely not prepared in accordance with the law. The law stipulates that this decree shall be sent to the National Assembly and, secondly, to the Fiscal Council. The Prime Minister of the Government said this yesterday somehow – the Fiscal Rule Act was passed by the Government. For the Fiscal Council not to be accepted, it's your fault. Both require 60 votes in this National Assembly. A well-respected coalition, a respected government, even the Fiscal Rule Law could not be adopted by themselves. On the other hand, as far as the Fiscal Council is concerned, the Secretary-General, with the four of us, no one has coordinated with regard to the Fiscal Council. SDS said you didn't coordinate with them. Thus, even if Nova Slovenija voted in favour of the Fiscal Council, it is still only 59 votes. That's why you have to point the arrow of guilt at someone else. 60 votes to 60. And I don't understand democracy and the functioning of the National Assembly by getting a proposal on the table and someone says - take it or leave it. That's what we were told. I have already put forward a proposal on the committee to leave the opposition to the composition of the Fiscal Council and simply to ensure the required number of votes in the end, if that is what you imagine. And it is not right for the President of the Government to mislead the Slovenian public when he talks about how he coordinated himself on the Fiscal Council. Nobody with us and, as colleagues at the Slovenian Democratic Party have said, no one with them. The names on the table couldn't possibly get 60 votes. Now for a little while, as far as the numbers in this decree are concerned. The document can truly look like a document we can accept with our left hand. Twelve figures are listed for each cash register separately, the State budget, the pension register, the health checkbook and the municipalities for three years. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope you know that by this decision you are very precise in drawing, defining and limiting things. We haven't actually heard anything about what these numbers contain. I will mention only three of the biggest categories: social transfers; except for the fact that there will be an additional reduction in one line. The pensions are not even mentioned in the document, and Desus is not a problem to confirm, and then he will again be like a great fighter in the air. Very precisely this number defines what is happening; and the same for public sector wages. You define a number after their consent, but I wonder what it will be like for the last five or ten congregations of these two hundred and some that we have to run out of quotas. Does this mean that they will either adopt a budget without spending, or how?Oh, my God! We don't have any answers. They may sound very technical, but respected colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately there's a lot of content and a lot of life behind here. Most interestingly, however, the trend towards lowering the expenditure of the state budget, where this government and this ruling coalition leave virtually the whole effort of consolidating public finances in this medium-term period to the new government. These are not just words, here on the chart I show you how you plan to reduce the expenditure of the state budget. In 2017, they will be minimally lower than in 2016 and will then be stronger than in 2017 and 2019 than in 2018. And it's called good care for sound public finances or as the Prime Minister of the government said yesterday. This is called irresponsible fiscal policy, because we are on our way where we have once been; where all the promises we made related to the budget we passed on for three years and each year we have been late for another year. We have never come up with the necessary changes, minireforms or whatever we call them. That's what this document shows. If these are sound public finances and responsible public financial policies, I don't know what else we can call this. In our Group of Members, this decree will not receive absolute support.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Ms Urška Ban will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Finally, let me present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre on the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2017 to 2019. This is the first time that we have met in the National Assembly, with a proposal for a decision on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for a three-year period. Only in 2015 did the National Assembly adopt the Fiscal Rule Act; we were the last country in the European Union to adopt this law. This law, in addition to the fundamental principles of public finances management at the level of the whole sector, redefines and defines our role – the active role of the National Assembly in the planning of public financial spending. Thus, we Members are involved in the preparation of a public spending plan for the next three years, this time from 2017 to 2019, from the very beginning when the key public financial objectives to be pursued in public financial planning are set. This is how we welcome the preparation of the budget in the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, as civil society can also be involved through the National Assembly in the preparation of the budget. It is this decree that all four cash public funding is addressed, and this emphasis seems particularly important to us, since, above all, municipal, health and pension funds are those pillars in the country that provide stability and security for our citizens. The decree pursues two key objectives, the country’s target balance as a whole and individual cash public funding, and the maximum possible amount of expenditure for the state sector and individual cash public funding, namely the state budget, municipalities, health and pension funds. Today, we face the first step in responsible and transparent budgetary planning, and this also in some way for the next three years. With this document, which we are considering today, we will set out the above-mentioned objectives, which will follow the adopted Fiscal Rule Act and thus allow all necessary measures to be taken to achieve these objectives, as defined in the Decision, until the implementation or preparation of the budgets for each year on this basis. However, although the process of adopting these public financial objectives is now formalized by the Fiscal Rule Act, it is not essentially a matter of content for a completely new matter. The process on the basis of which the country's target balance and the maximum possible level of expenditure of the sectors of the State has been carried out until now, even before the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act; all since the adoption of the Stability Pact rules. Data on the country's target balance and target expenditure were included each year in the Stability Programme, which represented the Slovenian medium-term fiscal framework. The Government was responsible for adopting this medium-term fiscal framework, which then forwarded the Stability Programme to the European Commission for further consideration in the context of the European Semester. However, with the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, as I have already said, part of the responsibility and responsibilities attached to budgetary planning is also being transferred to the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 6 and the transitional provisions of Article 17 of the Fiscal Rule Act, the Government is obliged to send to the National Assembly a draft framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State for the next three years prior to the final approval of the Stability Programme in 2016. In accordance with the deadlines laid down by the Fiscal Rule Act and taking into account the spring forecast of the macroeconomic indicators prepared at Umar, and taking into account all other available data regarding the expected expenditure and expected expenditure of the State sector, the Government has forwarded to the National Assembly this year and the next three years a proposal for a framework that we have on the table today. Allow me to define myself in a few of the following sentences to the very content of the proposal for a decree, which I believe will be discussed further today. The proposal for a decree contains and defines two important objectives. Firstly, Article 2 sets out the target balance of the whole sector of the country and the maximum possible amount of expenditure of the whole sector of the country measured by the accounting methodology, i.e. the ESA methodology. According to these baselines, the Decision provides that the country’s target balance for 2017, 2018 and 2019 is to be determined in such a way as to ensure a reduction of the sector’s deficit by 0,6 % of gross domestic product over the next three years. The maximum possible amount of expenditure of the sector is determined by reference to the estimated amount of revenue of each institutional unit of the sector of the country and the expenditure which the other unit of the sector represents is cleared. So it's a consolidated amount of expenditure. The provisions of Article 2 of the Decree are in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act. Secondly, Article 3 sets out the target balance and the maximum amount of expenditure for individual public cash financing, that is, for the state budget, the budget of the municipalities, the pension and health allowance calculated after the cash flow, that is, according to the principle that the financial plans for public finances are drawn up. This Decision provides that three public cash registers, i.e. municipalities, health and pension stores, will not create an additional deficit between 2017 and 2019. For the last two, the legislation itself already in force provides for this, while for the national budget, a deficit of up to 1.7 % of GDP is foreseen in 2017, in 2018, 0.9 % of GDP and in the same year 2019. The State budget segment compensates for surpluses or deficits of other units of the sector, which are not specifically covered by the decree, because this is not prescribed by the Fiscal Rule Act. These are public agencies, public funds, public institutions, which are financed by public or mostly public funds, budgetary funds and companies which are mostly financed by public funds. The budgetary framework described will serve as the basis for the preparation of the Stability Programme, which contains a description of policies and measures to achieve these objectives and also sets a medium-term fiscal objective. However, the content of the Stability Programme is complemented and overlaps in certain parts with the National Reform Programme. The Stability Programme focuses on macroeconomic development, fiscal policy and public finances, while the National Reform Programme describes measures announced for structural reforms within the European Semester. Both documents represent a fundamental strategic framework for the development of Slovenia. During the medium term, Slovenia is currently planning to gradually reduce the balance of the sector in the draft Stability Programme and the country's cyclically adjusted balance. Therefore, when planning public finances, the government focuses on structural measures that will have a lasting impact on the structure and effectiveness of public finances. The Stability Programme also foresees a further trend in the debt reduction of the sector, a country that will start to decrease already this year. Given the fact that the deficit was below 3% in 2015, this means that we are moving from the corrective to the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact, and in addition to the deficit targets, we must also pursue the target of reducing the debt of the country's over 60% of GDP. From what I have said in our Member State, I am evaluating the preparation of the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019 as a fulfilment, for the first time, of the legal commitment and also as one of the measures that will in the future increase budgetary transparency and improve the planning of the revenue and expenditure of all four public finances. However, in our Group, we are also aware that this time the problems with the consideration and adoption of the proposal for a framework are also the result of the unnamed and thus inactive Fiscal Council and the absence of the implementing part of Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act in the Public Finance Act or in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. With regard to the appointment of the Fiscal Council, much has already been said on the committee today, but let me point out that the proposal tabled by the government in March at the meeting of the National Assembly in our parliamentary group, the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, was unanimously supported. We have assessed the proposed candidates as competent and professionally highly qualified to perform all the tasks entrusted to the Fiscal Council by the Fiscal Rule Act. However, this proposal did not receive adequate, i.e. two-thirds support in Parliament. Due to the important and crucial role in the further public financial planning and monitoring and monitoring of public financial spending, we expect the Ministry of Finance and also the Government to continue the process of appointing members and the President of the Fiscal Council with the publication of a new call for proposals and to forward the proposal to the parliamentary groups as soon as possible. However, we expect responsible and nationalised reflection from the parliamentary groups on the new candidates. The process of drafting a new Public Finance Act is also ongoing, with comments coming from public hearing under consideration. As the State Secretary said on the committee, these are huge, very large and because of the complexity of the matter, the law is a little late. The Public Finance Act is one of the basic public financial rules, which, in addition to the principle of fiscal responsibility, included the obligation of medium-term fiscal policy planning. At the same time, the drafting of the new Public Finance Act is also an opportunity to modernise public finance instruments in some way, as this law has been for quite some time, with the exception of certain partial interventions through other laws – the Law on Budget Implementation, the Law on Public Finance Balance and through another similar regulation – has not undergone a greater change since its adoption. However, this issue, which has also been raised today, and these two problems that I have mentioned, will be re-emerged this September, as the sixth paragraph of the Fiscal Rule Act provides that by 15 September of the current year, the Government will find that the circumstances under which the framework has been adopted have changed, the National Assembly and the Fiscal Council, when the draft State budget or its amendments are forwarded, are also being referred to as a proposal for an amendment to the framework. The National Assembly shall adopt a change to the framework when adopting or amending the State budget. We are aware that without amending the Law on Public Finance and/or the Rules of Procedure, further consideration will be difficult to carry out. Despite the problems mentioned in our Group, we assess that the Fiscal Rule Act provides the legal basis for the examination and adoption of this document and that at the same time the procedure for the adoption of this document is carried out within the framework of the existing provisions as set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we assess that the proposed decision is the appropriate basis for preparing the budget changes for 2017 and the draft budget for 2018 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. The proposed fiscal effort provided for in this Decision shows the correct direction and stability in the public financial projections in individual years, and we will therefore support the proposal for a framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2017 to 2019 in the Parliamentary Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a framework. Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Let me give you some explanations. We are aware and have had a very serious difficulty in drawing up this decision in the government, particularly at the Ministry of Finance, and also in drawing up the Stability Programme, because, contrary to the general belief that the methodology of the European Commission, as Commissioner Pogačnik put it, is clear, transparent, well-known in advance, of course it does not. If you saw this methodology, it's about that thick. They refer to it as rocket science, which has been expressed in the last Eurogroup. The result that came out for Slovenia for 2017 is not only illogical but even absurd. And when I pointed out this to the Eurogroup that the result of this methodology is illogical for certain reasons – and I will explain why it is illogical, and I hope that everyone will understand – seven more countries were immediately reported ready to sign one document that we wrote to the European Commission and warned it that certain methodological problems should be addressed in this methodology. In addition, we have been supported by some other countries that have come up with the same problems. This methodology is actually problematic. For the following year, 2017, at 2.3% of projected economic growth, which is low economic growth for Slovenia. Before the crisis, we had economic growth of up to 3.5% on average, with 2.3% economic growth for the following year, this calculation leads us to have 1.9% higher economic growth than the potential for Slovenia. This is said to result in potential economic growth below 1 per cent, which is total nonsense, because this result means that we have a very heated economy in Slovenia. This 1.9 percentage points exceed the economic growth that we should potentially have, is the highest wage or the highest difference between what is envisaged and between the potential for the whole of the European Union when we have deflation in Slovenia. Thus, if we had so much surplus economic growth, this was the case in 2008. What did we have back then? Huge inflation, a huge deficit in the balance of payments, we had very low unemployment. But we now have a deflation, a huge surplus of the balance of payments, one of the highest, for Germany is the highest in the European Union, and we also have unemployment, which is at a long-term level above this level. The results of the methodology show that Slovenia has a strong, overheated economy in the European Union. And when I went to my colleagues with this, some said – we had similar problems, not as big as you, but similar problems. We are therefore prepared to go together with you to discuss with the European Commission the revision of this methodology or corrections. The Italian finance minister came to me with a proposal to correct the extension of the period for which the averages count. We have signed and sent this to the European Commission. This logic that Slovenia has a structural deficit of 2.8% of gross domestic product in 2017 is completely meaningless. He also admitted this in a television interview with Disselblo – now chairman of Ecofin and at the same time the Eurogroup. For the following year, after the calculations we have, a structural deficit of 1.3% is foreseen. The structural deficit, the reduction of the structural deficit in 2016, is said this year, according to our calculations, will yield 0.6% of GDP, just as much as it should be. And given how the IMF and the OECD calculate potential GDP, the production of gaps and structural deficits, this is even less than the calculation of the OECD and is somewhere at the level of the IMF, the International Monetary Fund. There's a lot of trouble here. We have a conversation with the European Commission and we are talking to them about how to solve this problem; not only for Slovenia, but for several other countries. With regard to deficit reduction, deficits – 15 % deficit in 2013, 4,9 % deficit in 2014, 2,9 % in 2015 and 2,2 % in 2016. We have a very clear downward trend, even if we have one-off impacts such as recapitalisation of banks and other one-off impacts, we still have a very healthy fall, which we all acknowledge. The question was regarding structural reforms. True, with regard to demographics, Slovenia is in great difficulty. Demographically, we have one of the biggest problems for long-term fiscal sustainability – by 2060 these projections – and for medium-term fiscal sustainability. And to address this, as you have mentioned, Mr Member, then you need structural reforms to establish this long-term fiscal sustainability. That is why the National Reform Programme has also foreseen all these reforms. In 2016, 2017, there must be a health reform, there must be pension changes, there must be changes in long-term care and changes in higher education, which will shorten studies. All of this enables a large part of the working population that pays contributions and thus keeps the pension allowance and the health allowance to the extent that it is possible to pay normal pensions. But this is already in the national reform programme adopted last week by the government. With regard to the current deficit, Mr Pogačnik, they do not hold the data that this year's current deficit is greater than last year's. This year, as stated in the Ministry of Finance reports, it is 100 million lower than last year. However, we have another point that we have also pointed out in the press release, because it fell on Sunday the last day of March, payments for March were made on the first working day that followed; and this was on April 1st. [[advertising from the hall]] On 1 April, what should be paid in March for March was paid. And this is 49 million. If we add that up, we have 150 million in a round-down deficit in this year's first three months than in last year's first three months. Revenues are higher than in 2015, which is a surprise for me. Why is it a surprise they're taller? Because they're supposed to be lower. We should be lower because the old financial perspective is over, we are moving on to a new one that has about 900 million less resources available for cohesion than the old perspective. And in the initial period, the pumping will be smaller because all those documents need to be made so that it can be pumped. The fact that the revenues were higher than in 2015 is a surprise to me; of course, we have to add 49 million to those in our reports, and then they are even higher. From this point of view, these estimates of how we move this year are slightly different than you mentioned. How do we plan this decline in the structural deficit by 2020 so that the structural deficit is nothing? They're all predictions. These forecasts for 2016 and 2017, which were also presented by the European Commission for Ecofin and the Eurogroup in March, are only predictions and warnings. We will know the exact data for this year, what the structural effort was like next autumn. Only then will we be able to determine whether this structural effort was appropriate or not. And now these predictions are premature. We don't even have the final result as far as last year's deficit. If you don't know how much last year's deficit was, then you don't know how much structural effort there was. This statistics are still clearing up with Eurostat and will be published in a short time. Based on this, it's a fiasco, and I don't know what else it is, but it's really an exaggeration, these are the European Commission's assessments. And one more thing I would like to say is methodology. It has input data for the methodology. What input data are used and how it is calculated, we do not know. We don't even know how they're calculated for a lot of this data. For example, for long-term unemployment, we do not know what the model behind this input is to be calculated for the methodology. We have our own calculations, and we don't come anywhere near together. And there will certainly be a proposal by this coalition of countries to calculate the structural deficit, the potential GDP and the country's production gap themselves to control the inputs. This is then controlled by the European Commission. Because we actually don't sometimes know how to calculate and get to the same number as the European Commission does. But whoever wants to see this in more detail can come and look at this methodology, and you'll see that that's why it's rocket science. Only this rocket does not end up flying, at least not in the case of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Get Dr. Bojan Dobovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u112	Good afternoon. This decree, which we are considering, in some ways lays down the framework for how the future budgets of this country should be followed and what deficit this country will face. If you look at the decree, then you see that the closer we get to 2020, the smaller the country's deficit will be, of course, an encouraging one. Of course, these are all letters and figures on paper that will become reality only when certain structural and reform measures follow these figures. Without this, it is simply not possible to ensure any substantial movement in the country. Demography is a major problem that will hit Slovenia significantly in many areas in the coming years; and this will still have a bearing on the preparation of annual budgets. If you look at only the data of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, you will find that in just the next ten years the population, over 60 years of age, will increase by 100,000 people. This will certainly be enormous pressure on pension, medical bills, and more over the next ten years. And if the country does not begin to think today about appropriate reform measures to adapt our systems to future demographics, then it will present us with a hard one. When we talk about budgets, there are two key data – what will be the revenue and what will be the expenditure. At least in Novi Slovenija, we see a few possibilities to optimize them further; let me put in particular subsidies here. In New Slovenia, we find the subsidy policy led by this government inappropriate, because sometimes it is difficult to understand why the country would first collect some money for all citizens to then distribute it to some with subsidies. Wouldn't it be easier if the state wanted to help some businesses or citizens, then it's better than giving them money to leave them, with ease and similar things. This is one of the important expenditure in our state budgets, which could be further optimised. On the other hand, according to our assessment, health and pension reform is crucial. At least as far as health reform is concerned, we are often told that we are advocating the privatisation of health care; that is not true. These are lies. I will repeatedly repeat that we advocate public health, but a different, more sustainable way of financing this public health care. The pension reform will also have to happen. Above all, I think it is crucial what we, as Parliament, will do to improve the business environment and create new jobs. That's the key base, and without it, all the other stuff goes down. If we don't have people to pay extra for all these systems, then nothing helps. And here is one of the basic things that we see, especially that we reduce taxes on wages or work. This is where the most needs to be done, and if we are to add an even better service for citizens, that the public administration will work for the benefit of the citizens in placing them in the premises themselves and in other services to improve the functioning of the municipalities, then a better future for this country can also be smiled at.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the word. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The document before us simply cannot be supported in the light of all the arguments we have heard in the debate so far. If we only expose two flaws. Procedural first, how the document was produced. Since we do not have a fiscal council, the document is procedurally flawed and cannot be accepted as such. Another problem is the substantive problem. So far, we have not heard satisfactory arguments and the government has not presented the necessary information to support this circumscribed document. Let's see what the problem is. There are a number of restrictions on salaries, pensions and social matters. One very large segment was not exposed, namely the financial segment. This is a sector where this financial sector is not sufficiently exposed. If we know that we have a problem with banks that are majority state-owned, we have a problem with SDH and today we see that we will also appear to have a problem with DUTB. All of this will still have a bearing on the present document, and that's why we're going to have a problem. We have not highlighted enough in the document and we have overlooked the issue of the municipalities and their budgets. The point is that both trade unions and the economy are against this document. The European Commission has also warned us several times that the document is not appropriate. She warned us in particular about the bad situation in Slovenia. What am I reading with this document? That there was no coordination on this document that we did not get enough information, I am already seeing this kind of government activity in a number of other activities, such as migrants and everything else. Thus, opposition parties are not getting enough information, no one is coordinating with us, and we are being held accountable for the decisions taken. The point is that the government is also late with this document, as is the case with some others. The government excuses that the document is the same as it is, due to short deadlines and what we have heard today is rocket propulsion. I think that this is such an important document that decides on the future of Slovenia that the excuse of rocket science is not appropriate for this national assembly. In view of this, I can conclude that I cannot support the document in any way because there is no fiscal council and no independent control, the government has had time to harmonise it. To take responsibility against Parliament, the government is once again trying to wash its hands and make Parliament responsible, so I appeal to members of the coalition if they accept this document, that the government places the responsibility on them for the adoption of the document and the long-term development of Slovenia and that there is no predictability in the document. I can tell you there are two possible explanations. The first explains that the Government is not capable of adopting the relevant document and the second explains that the document is intended to do so. And both explanations are unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, get Mr. Franc Ly ready. Here you go, Mr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you for saying that again. We continue this debate, which is more of a non-debate. I'm gonna start here where my buddy ended up in front of me. Look, parliamentary democracies of the European type have in fact had one in them for quite some time, I hope, a defect. The majority of laws, in particular system laws, invest in the parliamentary procedure of the executive authority, which then, to a large extent, is subsidised to various divisions of territorial authority, which are different from country to country, from country to country. And if we come from this deficit, it is Parliament's task, if not another, to set up a double mirror both by the opposition and by the coalition, to carry out something that is said in today's lingua franca fine toning such matters, and to monitor what is usually forgotten about how these laws are implemented in practice. We are kind of talking here in the air, and I would like to quote the Minister's statements for the introduction of these remaining minutes. He said, quote, "just as it must be." This is exactly what this document must be. The lack of a healthy fall that everyone acknowledges to us, regarding the financial situation in the budget, I am surprised about the methodological haircut, we do not know about the methodology of rocket science - but this rocket does not fly, at least in the case of Slovenia. In short, this also points to some of the problems of the Eurogroup, which, as we have learned in recent years, is an informal group of gentlemen who apparently want to speak quite empty, invent some methodologies for the benefit of some, to the detriment of others, and, if I say so, get lost in translation. We still do not have an answer to the question that I will repeat again: do the promises, the commitments of the 2020 strategy and the social agreement still apply? How will they be realized? "In view of this, "just as it must be," the end of Mr Dusan's quote, somehow I'm afraid not. There is a lot of talk today about reforms. We could count them a small million. We are definitely aware of demographic situations for quite some time, health reform, pension reform, or we are so rich society that we have some duality of the municipality, administrative unit, in short, we should also consider the reform of local self-government and public administration. It would probably not be a bad idea to think about school and technological reform if we were already talking about reforms. One lady, who was the European Commissioner who was obviously missing this SMC, spoke as Mrs Bulc said that on one side of the A-format we should write what we want in this society. And we're squeezing or squeezing these reforms, some semi-documents that don't usually come to the opposition. If they come, we, as some other government mirror, if you like, are always voted out. On what basis are we going to carry out these reforms? If you listen to the Minister of Finance, on the basis of some of the decisions that some gentlemen, which is not yet a formal club, do not have any legal basis – the Eurogroup, has invented. And it'll be exactly what it has to be. If the cow dies in this, if there's no man in this, pah, who cares what it is that we're going to fall healthy, which everyone will admit to us, but if we break our noses in this, and then we wait three years for the operation when we have a broken nose and we're going to have to do this on our own, then we're going to. [[...]] The situation is what it is. If I somehow conclude, given what Mr President of the Government has answered us or has not answered yesterday, in view of what Mr Financial Minister, who is now a percentage, says, I know that Mrs Vraničareva, who has to take care of these tables, cannot put the whole world into words. Given that social democrats, who are feudalizing the labour sector, are social and usually forget the same opportunities, the percentage even on the work of their mothers, is very, very bad for us, so of course we cannot support this in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. He has a word, Mr. Franz Ly. Get ready, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. It's good to see you all again! I think we have a very important document ahead of us, with which we will certainly be pressing our future for several years. Given the number of words spoken in one and the other, and also the shortcomings of this document, I might have chosen the middle way. In any case, planning is necessary to at least outline our path in theory, but it is necessary to look at the basis on which this planning is based. We must not forget that if we want to achieve these planned targets for managing the sustainable deficit, anything must certainly be done to ensure sustainable economic growth, because otherwise there is tremendous constant pressure on the state budget. If, on the one hand, there is tremendous pressure on expenditure, that is to say on the expenditure side, on the other hand, if there is no sustainable economic growth, these objectives are at risk. That's a fact. What's wrong with getting close? In my view, certainly and certainly, the measures that will give all these options so that the economy can breathe normally so that it can develop normally. If we look at what is currently going on, these words, that there is an increased inflow compared to the period of the previous year and so on, I believe all of this to the Minister that these data are being kept. However, it should also be borne in mind that certain processes, trends in economic decline, are showing, this is said to be a reduction in economic activity due to the many impacts on which we have direct influences in certain cases, but not in others because they are globally conditioned. These are the facts. Only then will all these cashiers be able to manage. Here it was mentioned, as far as local self-government is concerned, that there is also a need for change. Of course they're needed. Looking at the structure of the budget, in the structure of expenditure, how much expenditure is represented for the municipalities, this is not negligible. Yet, local communities show dissatisfaction. It is said that pressure will be repeated here, too, because many are mainly on the periphery of the state at the edge of sustainability, no development, no development is blocked, the costs of action themselves are so high that they barely come with these resources that local communities can acquire. The fact is, as many young people leave the country as possible, this is a major damage to the national economy and it is normal to reduce inflows to various cash registers as they are less competitive productive jobs because they are the most capable of leaving. And there are problems, and all efforts should be made to improve this situation. Let's just look at the case. Have we been able to do anything in health care? We can't say we did anything. Almost nothing or very little. Did we manage to cut the costs? Almost didn't. The pressures are great, and I want to say that we are seriously and deeply behind in concrete actions. There are many words, but few concrete actions to support all these projections, which would also actually be sustainable. To plan a reduction in the expenditure of the state sector. This is true, but the question is whether this can be done in real life. I don't believe it. Look, the pressure's on the unions, too. Normal. Pressures are from public sector unions, then the police union, and health problems are opening up. If this is not resolved properly, then there will certainly be irresistible problems. Is it right to reduce deficits at such a pace? Yes, obviously we have set ourselves this task, we have accepted this commitment, and it will be very difficult to depart from this. This is said to be the case if we are not to move away from this, all efforts should be made to draw on European funds to support, above all, productive development. Let's see what's going on. If there is no major investment, the construction sector is also in severe decline, which binds itself to many other sectors, which can naturally increase domestic consumption. I think that, given how this document is prepared, given all the shortcomings that my predecessors have highlighted, there is no fiscal world, and so on, it will be very difficult to support and believe this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Urška Ban. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you. The material annexed to the decree, which is called the 2016 Stability Programme, also gives a serious warning that demand in external markets will also decline in the coming year. If we are aware that exports were, in fact, one of the major warnings of economic growth that enabled us to successfully reduce debt in Slovenia, including the success of responding to the challenges we faced, this would certainly be one of the serious warnings, so it would be very important to prepare for a possible reduction in demand today or, if you would like, even a possible new global recession, which then directly affects the exports of our companies and thus the corresponding decline in economic growth. It is right that we are prepared for this not to happen to us as we did in 2008, when we were actually saying that there will be no crisis, but in fact the crisis was practically before the door. If we want to manage this situation, the only effective solution is to invest in infrastructure. Given that we have infrastructure needs in Slovenia, and given that such investments in infrastructure also greatly accelerate the development of the economy and also of jobs, I could argue that we will also be able to take up possible fluctuations in demand on the external market and replace this manca with more demand at home and also with more jobs than is currently available. I therefore believe that in these years ahead of us, 2017, 2018 and 2019, every effort must be made to invest and move from coordination, negotiation, discussion that the 2nd indent is important for Slovenia, for the Slovenian economy and for jobs, to action. We have already missed several calls for grants during this period. And at this point, resources are actually available to a limited extent and will probably be only those remaining due to the non-realisation of some of the projects to which other countries have applied. Therefore, the 2nd indent is certainly one of the key investments in this period 2017, 2018 and 2019. Finally, the capacity currently available to Luka Koper is being filled by 2018. Given the ability of the current movement of cargo following the existing Koper-Divič track, and only with extremely fast dynamics in building this investment, I think we will be able to provide a successful response to the stability of economic growth in Slovenia and that we can also be prepared for possible fluctuations in external markets. While this is not mentioned in these documents, the fact is that the decline and planned decline in European funds from the new financial perspective is incorporated in this document, and this is the only way that I think we can overcome this gap. However, at the moment the remaining funds would have been exhausted, we would have really come to the enviable level of economic growth that Slovenia urgently needs in order to, I hope, establish the situation before the global financial and economic crisis. But here I do not speak and agree with the Minister, in fact I must commend him, if I may say so, in his efforts to prove within the European Commission that it is not about overheating the economy in Slovenia. We experienced economic overheating in the period 2004-2008 and then a real regulator and all those who had the opportunity to act did not perform their tasks and somehow probably possess those cheap loans abroad. At that time there was indeed a period of overheating of the Slovenian economy. I hope to say that this moment, not in Slovenia, there are so many favourable credits that overheating of the Slovenian economy can occur, and not least in the external markets, although Slovenia has reached an ever-increasing level of funding in recent years, which is certainly extremely encouraging and necessary in fact. This should also be used to the greatest extent possible at the moment when this funding is favourable. Of course, this is about funding, as I said before, not public spending as such, but investing in infrastructure, and thus elevating these resources that we can get. Other infrastructure investments in addition to railways are certainly also in the field of road infrastructure. All too long we have been talking about the third development axis, the third development axis, the fourth development axis, a little more talk over the last period about the third development axis, its north and south legs, but again everything is getting too stuck in providing resources for the construction of these development axes as well. I do not think all options, opportunities have been exploited and there is not enough effort to try to create financial resources for this road infrastructure as well. We are at this moment in the implementation phase of the remaining motorway leg, which has been successfully carried out or brought into the execution phase. For all the other sections that I have mentioned, there is no relevant dynamics, so I think that the debate on the gas centre should continue. Here I am not talking about interfering with the amount of excise duties that have come into the state budget at this moment and are an important source, but they would say a small proportion of the petrol cent, which we can use in addition to the already established excise duties to finance infrastructure. Even if we have been monitoring the fluctuations in excise duties over the last period, we will find that the economy is able to cope with these fluctuations in fuel prices and that it does not detect problems due to what has been happening to you in the last period. Recently we had almost the value of diesel around the euro, today it is, I think somewhere the euro is thirty, but there were no shocks in the economy when this rise in prices of oil derivatives was detected. So with minimal rises or additional resources through a gas cent that does not interfere with the cash register, but creates a dedicated resource, we could certainly also, when we decide to rent a loan for the construction of the infrastructure for a period of 20, 25 years, raise some 200 million euros, so that this loan will then be repaid for a total of 0.32 cents. This is also illustrated by the study prepared in the context of the construction of the second track and, last but not least, by the Economic Chamber. Therefore, with minimal efforts, it is possible to make a substantial number more and to improve the actual situation of both the country's budget and the budgets of the municipalities, and as a result of economic growth also pension and health allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. In the introduction, let me also welcome and commend all the efforts made by Finance Minister Dusan Mumorr to prove that only on the basis of the common methodology of the European Union can we not claim, as the European Commission has said, that the Slovenian economy is overheating, I welcome these efforts and the search for support from other financial ministers. I hope that further talks, negotiations will be successful and that what the Minister emphasises is that the results of this methodology show some illogical results. If I touch once again briefly on the document under consideration today, the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for 2017/2019. I've already said it's a new document, but only from the point of view of the hearing in the National Assembly. The government has already established this framework for setting the target balance of the public finance sector and the maximum amount of expenditure under the Stability Programme, from which the Stability and Growth Pact rules apply. In the past, until the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, the stability programme was also a Slovenian medium-term fiscal framework. By adopting the Fiscal Rule Act, certain powers are also linked to budgetary planning at this initial stage, the setting of these key objectives, the maximum expenditure limits and the target balance for all four cash registers, both the budgets of the State, the municipalities, the health and pension registers, in order to move to decision-making and debate on parliamentary working bodies and then to the meeting of the National Assembly. This is how we welcome the adoption of the budget or the launch of this document in the SMC, as it will also ensure some transparency in the future in the consideration of budgetary documents, since we must not forget that civil society is also involved in the consideration of such documents by Parliament, through the consideration of the Parliament, and that all four public funds, municipalities, states, pensions, health checkers, some pillars in our country that provide stability and security to our citizens. This consideration itself in the National Assembly gives a greater role to the National Assembly in budgetary planning, which also ensures transparency, a more binding role in the budgetary process itself in the adoption of budgets in the National Assembly. What's the decree talking about? As I have already said in our parliamentary group, we see the basis in the Fiscal Rule Act, which we adopted in the National Assembly in 2015 on the basis of the amended Constitution, Article 148, and in future and final provisions of Articles 15 to 19 of this Act, the law discusses how medium-term balance is exercised during the period of approximation of the medium-term fiscal objective. And now we are in this period and exactly what we have written in this law is now being operationalized, with numbers I write in this decree. According to Article 15 of the Fiscal Rule Act, which sets out how and how we approach the medium-term fiscal objective, with what dynamics, this is now recorded in this decree. It is necessary to limit expenditure upstream in order to ensure that the structural balance of the sector is adjusted in the direction of the medium-term fiscal objective. As it is said, that is exactly what this decree requires. It sets out the country’s target balance as a whole and for all four public treasury and the maximum possible level of expenditure for the country’s sector for all four cash registers. When it has been said earlier that this four-year decree has all been cemented and written down, let me say that, in accordance with this Act, the Fiscal Rule Act, the Government will be able to re-examine all its objectives in the autumn with new macroeconomic forecasts and, if necessary, also propose amendments in the light of the highest level of expenditure on individual public finances. And what will make this document possible? The adoption of this document will allow the preparation of the budgets for the following years in the framework necessary for further fiscal consolidation and the adoption of this Decision will allow all the necessary concrete measures to be taken to ensure that these figures, which are recorded in the decree, are also actually realized and those objectives, which are recorded, are achieved. It is certainly necessary to look at and consider, together with this resolution, the development programme plan and the stability programme, which we have already had on the Committee as an annex to this decree, both of which constitute a fundamental strategic framework for the development of Slovenia. The Minister has already stated what measures are envisaged on both the revenue, expenditure and structural reforms from pension, health, long-term care, higher education reforms, long-term care that will have to be prepared in the coming year. I myself assess that the proposed fiscal effort envisaged in this decree over the years shows some direction, including the results presented by the Minister in the introduction and then in the second intervention, when he answered questions, shows that we are in the right direction, pointing to some stability in public finances, in public financial projections, and therefore I consider this decree to be an appropriate basis for us to then undertake the rebalancing of budgets for 2017 and 2018. I think these are real and good bases, so I'm going to support this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! We are now considering a item on the agenda which should not, in fact, be in the legislative process, because, according to the Rules of Procedure and the law, this item does not meet the conditions for hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly. We have also pointed out this in the expansion of the agenda that the coalition has taken to force, but that is the case. The coalition has votes, rules of interpretation by its own, business and legislative, and that's why we're where we are. When no thing is done in the way it is written, but always in a slightly different way. Or in this case it's quite different than it was legal. First of all, I'd like to warn you, given these repeated findings, that we didn't support the Fiscal Rules Act. True, we did not support him, even though we talked to the government a lot. It has to be admitted that there have been several conversations. However, there is an important substantive difference between the writing in the constitution and between the fiscal rule, because the Fiscal Rule Act has greatly improved and softened the situation, so that the government can interpret this problem around the assessment of the crisis and, in particular, the assessment of when the special circumstances are. Nor is it a secret that the fiscal rule law brings something that the constitution does not allow. This is already a half-percent deficit in border conditions. And an authorized assignment, although there are no conditions for it. The coalition and part of the opposition parties have thus supported the deformation of the constitutional provision. You have received this solution, which you have proposed, 62 votes, and so are the votes of two opposition parties. But in the final stage, that doesn't mean much. The next step the Government should have taken, but it was not able to do within nine months, is to prepare or propose candidates for the fiscal world. The government has spent a great deal of time drafting a proposal for a vote at the National Assembly. It also needed 60 votes for each of the proposed ones. However, as we see, in fact, there was no particular negotiation or coordination with any of the opposition parties regarding the suitability of candidates for the fiscal council. He didn't visit us and invite us to an interview, not the President of the Government, not the Minister of Finance, not anyone from the Ministry of Finance, so we were just informed of what she was going to propose. There is no possibility of any impact or possibility of any impact. I hear it's similar with some other opposition parties. And then here the President of the Government can, because that was yesterday, accuse those who did not support this proposal for the fiscal world, that we are guilty of this problem and that we have almost committed a crime against the coalition in some way. If the coalition knows that it needs more than its own votes for a proposal, it is the most normal thing to negotiate and talk to those you expect to support and need. None of this was done by anyone in the government outfit. Nothing. In the Fiscal Rule Act at least a few articles you wrote down the fiscal council and its role in drafting proposals, evaluating government starting points, and also to whom the fiscal world must all convey its assessments. Not only does the fiscal council have to provide its assessments to the government regarding its documents, which it prepares, but also to the National Assembly. Article 7, paragraph 3, reads directly: "The Fiscal Council of the Evaluations referred to in the preceding paragraph shall prepare and transmit to the Government and the National Assembly." I now ask the Government when they received the opinion of the Fiscal Council and also the President of the National Assembly, when the opinion of the Fiscal Council relating to this item on the agenda was submitted to the National Assembly. He's not here. And once again, this item of the agenda does not meet the conditions for consideration at this meeting of the National Assembly, because there are simply no relevant mandatory elements. Yesterday, we heard that the Government needed two invitations to tender in these nine months to prepare a September call, to somehow shape it in November and to put it into action in March. Why did the government take these three-month delays to come up with this final proposal? Why? If the government had an interest in the fiscal world actually being set up and set up, then these procedures should be carried out with extraordinary momentum, extremely quickly. And if we did, we could have a fiscal council for the first time in a vote in October for the second time in December, and for the third time in February, if we chose this technology. The tender deadline can be adjusted by the Government in some way or on a 30-day basis, it can give 15-day deadlines and so on. None of this has been done, but it has been delayed by calls, proposals have been lying on drawers, and then it has been tried with this proposal, which the Government has chosen, to force the National Assembly to make a decision with which part of the important part of the National Assembly did not agree. Nor did those who supported the Fiscal Rule Act 62 vote in favour of this proposal, which apparently was specifically sought by Minister Marble and talked to some personally who applied for this call. This means that this proposal has been drafted entirely by the Minister of Finance. Nevertheless, this delay does not mean and shows that the government has not worked hard for the fiscal world to be called. And this has led to this extreme situation, so that this fiscal world would not have had these key documents to be drawn up by this government, this framework for three-year budgets, and if it were already such a document, not faced any different view of the public financial policies that this document prescribes, such as government estimates. This is one of the fundamental reasons for me, and that is why this procedure has been carried out, and that is why this situation, when the fiscal world decides, has also been avoided. If one government led by the constitutional expert, Dr. Miro Cerar, can afford such acts, then it is unlikely that we can talk about how well-intentioned and consistent with constitutional arrangements and laws that further divide this situation. We are in a situation where the rules of the Constitution are broken, we are in an unconstitutional state and we are in an illegal state. To adopt a plan, a medium-term plan for the next three budgets on an illegal basis, probably cannot be a certificate that the Government is seriously seeking budgets for these things. Earlier, you have been shown a diagram by Ambassador Alenka Bratušek, which shows how you designed this financial framework for budget planning. So you are the burdens from this public financial situation in which we are transferred to the government by your government. You are not able to take any real burdens and no measures to possibly at least proportionately divide the burdens that will have to be lifted due to the frameworks and burdens so far, this is a real burden on the budget and also by public debt. None of this matter has been taken by this government to act. And the Prime Minister spoke yesterday about the fact that this is the first government to pursue some sort of arrangement. This is the first government to knowingly violate a constitution that knowingly violates the law, but it is not the first to place the burden on the next government. I must warn you, Minister, there have been different times. We remember the period 2004-2008, when the Prime Minister was someone else who has set himself a firm stance on the policy of balancing public finances, it is said that you can take on as much burden as you can in the budget. And that's when these things happened. While at the same time a tax reform was carried out, where the revenues of the budget decreased by about a billion euros, public finances were still sustainable during that period. In 2006, 2005, 2004 budget deficits were extremely low, in spite of tax reform, the budget showed deficits and only in the crisis period 2008 when the Borut Pahor government corrected and abandoned certain things, there was a slight deficit in the budget. In short, if the government decides on a policy, it doesn't need any rules. But governments that make rules and then break those rules mean that such projects go into populism with a fig in their pocket, do not take on a proportionate part of their responsibility, but take their part by getting the best public opinion extract and then go into the next mandate with some image, I don't know, imaginary social and I don't know what kind of government. We have not seen any reform measures in this period. When you ask the government or any minister, even the Prime Minister, by what measures this government has contributed to economic growth, they may not write a single measure in response. Not a single action. We can now ask the Minister what measures have contributed to economic growth, with tax burdens, cost burdens on the budget and so on. There's no action. Government investment is low, almost absent, European funds have been reduced and what remains of investment in the economy and their efforts to maintain or increase exports remains. There's no action. Then we come into a situation because there are no measures to place all these things on someone who will be once again strong enough who will be able to set his back, to implement these measures and implement the framework outlined. If he pulls it off, it's gonna be a problem, 'cause everything's gonna be on the road. But if he doesn't, the media and other devices will do their part. And he probably won't be working with that one in gloves unless the real political option is the next suit. What has been submitted with this document on two, three pages, I do not think is sufficient for a serious debate in the National Assembly. It is irresponsible, it is inappropriate for the government to deal with this problem in this way. If he has already praised the government with the Fiscal Rule Act that this law is due to her, he should have taken on the greatest burden of this law in the first year. It would be logical if she boasted that she had adopted the law, that it was her achievement. But no. The minorities are or are supposed to be in the following budgets for the envisaged period of the third government's mandate, the main and the key burdens are then shifted to post-election time. This is irresponsible and also inappropriate and also unworthy. Also, what we are doing with the management of public financial policy and debt is inappropriate. The failure to implement these measures, which the government or the previous government or the Pahor government should adopt, has resulted in a rapid increase in public debt. This has increased several times in nominal terms and very much in relative GDP. This all means the absence of financial policy measures, the irresponsible behaviour of the government, while maintaining certain systems, when it secures some peace, most likely it counts on the public sector, because nothing is going on there at all, and things are going on at an unabated rate as regards debt. This is irresponsible policy management. As we see, there are also no serious measures envisaged to reduce tax obligations, not by citizens or by businesses. We have taxes and contributions or, for example, if you are looking at income, the threshold is significantly lower than in neighbouring Austria. Our Members would come to Austria in the almost lowest tax grade. Perhaps the first one, which is why the Austrian state has no problems with the implementation of social policies, school policies, investments and so on. Obviously, there is something very wrong with us in this spending or in redistributing the revenue of the budget, because we are paying substantially lower amounts of income than Austria. And all policies that belong to the country are implemented, all of them. No one guarantees that they are overtaxed, no one guarantees that they have bad services or worse services than in Slovenia and so on and so on. It is similar with contributions to the functioning of public systems. And we're all over the tip. If someone boasts of the social state and measures it only after how much money is transferred from the investment part of the country to transfers to eliminate poverty and similar things, it is not a social state, this concept is somehow misinterpreted. In the end, we're going to redistribute everything and we're going to do it over there plus, minus 3% to the balance sheet. The social state is working in a different way. As the 2004-2008 criticism of inflation and overheating was previously expressed, let us look at real wages or real pensions or real other things during that period, despite the fact that it was overheated and that inflation was too high. If you sponsor this, you will still get a significantly more favourable situation than it is now. It's much more comfortable. And the biggest criticisms at the time the economy overheated should now know to warm up the economy, without being worse than the entire damage block after this economic growth. Let's warm up, let's write up measures to warm up the economy, to new jobs and so on. You were able to criticize the period, which, as far as economic growth is concerned, is the most favourable in Slovenian history, but we do not know how to correct the situation so that we can now somehow jump up. The criteria are predictable. I think as far as measuring the standard by purchasing power is concerned, let's say one of these. We have fallen on this average scale, comparing 28 to the EU by 5 or 6%. Of those, I don't know, 91 or 92% now we're down to, I don't know, 85 or 87%. This is the achievement of these criticisms and the inaction and maintenance of the wrong things that keep repeating and which keep going. But let's not do the right thing. Come with suggestions to warm up the economy. In this year and a half or almost two years, which will be a few months from now, we have not seen them in any particular area. Planting flowers is the only thing this coalition has ever mastered or mastered in this term. Nothing else. And the machine that's doing this to you, the media machine, it's obviously doing this with great joy. And we're basically sinking in some way. They are ahead of us after the economic growth of Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland, the Baltic, Croatia. Where in this story have we now come from with our legitimates and I do not know what kind of policies? We maintain problems, we service them, no strikes, although we fall, we fall behind, no protests. When the situation was good, there were streets full of protestors. Now that we are actually weak and losing compared to all comparable environments, there is nothing. Clearly, something is wrong in this country because the right criteria do not apply, and the right criteria are not respected. Wrong things are bragging. I don't think it's gonna be possible to do that for a very long time. Once again, to deal with this document, for which we will now spend almost 5 hours if time is spent, there is no business and legal basis, because it does not meet the requirements of the Fiscal Rule Act prepared by the Government of Mir Cerar and has obtained a sufficient majority for it. So it's a document that doesn't have any weight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The last interviewer reported is Master Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u126	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I think my predecessor Mr Tanko has told us everything, all the essential things we are talking about in here today. I personally and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group are convinced that this document prepared by the Government is not suitable for further consideration and that it is not appropriate for the National Assembly to discuss it at all today. And the key reason is because there is no fiscal world. Dear colleagues, fellow Members, I will not ask the Minister of Finance to read Article 7 of the Fiscal Rule Act, because he probably knows him well, but the Coalition Members and Members should read Article 7 of the Fiscal Rule Act, which deals with the powers and tasks of the Fiscal Council. Dear Minister, we expected that before you would send this decree to the National Assembly, you would send a proposal to appoint a fiscal council. But you didn't do it. Look, the fiscal board is some kind of supervisory board, a supervisory board, one regulator that checks whether what's written down in some papers is even kept or not. And how can we believe today that all the numbers you've listed here are those that have some kind of stamina? We see that Brussels, Europe reminds us of significant risks. Will the 2016 budget be in line with the rules or not? And we are warned by Europe, not by a structural deficit. I am talking about Decree 2017, 2018, 2019. You're here today because you've had to meet some dates that bind you to certain institutions to send this information. As a Member and as a taxpayer, I am interested in when we will get new numbers, when you will send a budget balance for 2016, a respected finance minister. When do we get to the National Assembly again? See, I am sure that these figures mentioned in this decree will not hold that we will continue to discuss this decision for 2017, 2018, 2019. But look, I'm not talking to myself, but because things are getting worse from day to day. And every day they come up with a flower plan. Today we were able to understand in the media that the DUB is ahead of the insolvency situation. 50 million will have to be given again if they hold the statements of certain media. Because you decided to join the Factor Bank and the DUTB to the bad bank. Even though these two banks should be liquidated. You've charged the human resources dutb. You're the only one who knows the reasons. The Government has decided to simplify the connection without revisions without the corresponding balance sheets. I think you know exactly why you did it today. Because they're hiding certain things inside. How many more of these things are going to come into play, and you, the well-respected Minister of Finance, are selling here how right it is for the National Assembly to accept this. We are without half the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank, which should be just before the sale. I am talking about the structural deficit for 2017. 2017 is also the limit when New Ljubljana Bank should be privatised. Today, Nova Ljubljanska Banka does not have a complete composition of the Supervisory Board, it does not have a President of the Management Board. He only has a V.D. And that's our biggest bank. I am sure what the budget deficit will look like and what the structural deficit will look like, it is also likely to depend on the success of the NLB privatisation procedures. These are all things that say that this government does not act as it should, that every day new facts, new knowledge and what the opposition warned about six months ago, one year ago. Without the fiscal world, I don't think this decision makes any sense. And not least 8 pages for the decree, but when we talk about the budget 2017, 2018, 2019 target balance that is essentially insufficient. And if so, there are at least two key tables missing in this material. Dear Minister, you place the greatest burden after the end of your mandate – to 2019. Ladies and gentlemen of the SMC, do you find this ethical and moral to propose the greatest burden in this document after your term of office has expired? Dear Minister, you are also from the SMC quota, is that ethical and moral? If you ask me, it's not. At least give the European Commission's comments something to do. You answered earlier about the deficit. I have cited the facts arising from publicly available data. The state budget last month had 324 million euros in deficit, which is the biggest hole this year, and more than 193 million euros last March. We're talking monthly data. Overall, after three months of government budget deficits amount to EUR 569 million. However, it is true that € 103 million is less than in the first quarter of last year. But all these things that are now coming, the DUTB, the additional recapitalisation of 50 million and the question of what else will come, but I am confident that this government will probably have to come to the National Assembly very soon with the rebalancing of the budget for 2016. Minister, why didn't you decide to propose names for the composition of the fiscal council before sending this decree to the National Assembly? Dear coalition, at least today you have not knocked on the door of the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the appointment and filling of members of the Fiscal Council. Are you going to do it or not? But look, you need a two-thirds majority. You have already been told by the former Prime Minister that it is not enough to knock on the door of New Slovenia. You don't have a two-thirds majority. You're gonna have to knock on another door. And, Minister, it's my opinion that you're being irresponsible. To behave irresponsibly towards the National Assembly and to behave irresponsibly towards citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I expect, Minister, also your greater presence – especially on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u127	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government as a proponent. Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I would focus on just one thing, and I think it's very unfair if from a comprehensive, general government, it's said from a wider country that you only exclude a narrower state budget and look at what happens to it in expenditure and leave a complete picture with all the cash registers on the side. The state budget of a narrower country, the real budget of a narrower country, has the highest deficit. And this deficit needs to be reduced and a reduction of expenditure is therefore envisaged in the narrower country in order to reduce the deficit to nothing. While expenditure increases for the whole public sector from year to year. For 2019 as well. So that's incorrect. You can just take one piece out and say, but that's unfair because it's shrinking. This I would like to remind you that we did not plan at all to watch when elections are here and when elections are not elections, but we were wondering how we would get to the structural deficit nothing. But Mr. Tanko asked for action. All the measures we took, which was at the time of the 2015 budget, were 57 measures that managed to offset the deficit for the first time since 2008 below 3% of gross domestic product. The fact that we managed to get out of the debt crisis, to get back to normal access to financial markets has greatly reduced our interest rates and greatly accelerated our funding capacity. As is the case with the State, so is the case with the companies in the country. I went to the directors and asked them whether we had a higher rating, that we had a positive outlook for the future, that our competitiveness indicators were so high, we went from 51st to 29th, we went to the World Economic Forum for 11th places better, IMD for six places better in one year, they all said that all these measures had an extraordinary effect on companies being treated differently, that we came from a normalised country and our business was better. So the government has definitely helped. In addition, I would like to point out that we have come out of macroeconomic imbalances, that is to say from this process, and that we will undoubtedly leave in May, which is true next month from the surplus deficit procedure, all of this adds to the fact that the economy has a different position in its exports. We come from a country that is no longer problematic, in which the interest rate decreases, which is stable, and now, even when I was in America and I went to the circle of investors, it was a completely different roadshow, as it was called when I became a finance minister, where the situation was extremely tense and very rough. This time they were especially interested in when we would come back for funding. So all these measures together and the national reform programme that defined the improvement of the business environment by reducing administrative barriers in three areas, in the tax area where we have already amended the Tax Procedure Act by facilitating last year, where we introduced in material laws things that reduce these administrative obstacles and where we have groups that are constantly working. This year, too, we will come with a change in the tax procedure law, with further facilitations and amendments to other laws, excise duties in the customs law and so on, in the tax area for tax restructuring. I've done circles, circles around all the employers. I also had the directors of the most important companies. And I asked very simply whether any way to restructure taxes is one that would benefit them. Yeah, of course it's from one pocket to the other. Only if one is more burdened than the other, and then you're burdening both of them the same way, one of them breaks. And they made it very clear to me that they are willing to go to higher taxation of profits if they receive the most professional personnel that are most critical to the quality of businesses. That's what the directors said. The unions also agreed that the middle class needed to be unloaded because it was uncompetitively burdened compared to other countries. This is also part of improving the business environment. Then these administrative obstacles are in two areas, which are crucial. This is the area of building permits and the area of environmental permits. We have two laws that have been in public debate and will be adopted in Parliament to facilitate what has been problematic in these competitiveness analyses and competition comparisons between countries. The next segment is the justice system. In the justice system, we know that we had very long hands in particular to resolve these business disputes. As we see now the results of the European Commission, with the changes we have achieved, not just us, there has already been a previous government here that we are now the second most successful European Commission in this area. We've already made progress. In my opinion, however, structural reforms in the field of justice are envisaged. In short, all these changes that we are making also have an impact on the business environment and thus on the ability of companies to do better and to export more. This, of course, has led us to have 3% economic growth in two years, to draw on all European funds, but this has also increased it, which could not be done, and we have worked very hard. However, as to how much expenditure can be spent each year, much depends on how dynamic European funds will draw on the next financial perspective. This can move further or further back. As you've seen for your previous perspective, it's our logic to do nothing from the beginning, and then finally to get started, to do better than the others. And in recent years, we've pumped the most. From this point of view, Mr Tanko, I think it is quite this activity that we have had and have set ourselves up through the Action Plan, the National Reform Programme, the Stability Programme, the Reduction of Deficiencies and so on that all these measures have had effects. Now there's going to be a reduction. The question is, how much will the reduction be? This time, Umar is the most conservative for 2016 with 1.7% predicted economic growth. The International Monetary Fund, which has never, at least as I recall, had a higher forecast than Umar, this year's forecast is 1.9 and in the coming years even higher. Employment is increasing. After increasing productivity, we are in 3rd or 4th place in Europe, but after export growth, we are in third place in Europe. Slovenia is actually a star now. When I went from one institution to another, I was also in London and also in Berlin, I had meetings or lectures or meetings, not only with investors, but with representatives of institutions, from parliament to government, and they all claimed that Slovenia had made a remarkable conversion, from the problem that arose at the end of 2012 to the beginning of 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u129	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If he would also like to discuss the Government's representative as a proponent, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. At least the debater has 5 minutes. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your word. Perhaps it would be better if the replica were to be debated, but it would be more time. I asked the Government last June what were the measures that contributed to economic growth, which was praised by the Minister of Finance at the meeting of the World Bank in Washington. I have received the answer to this question that this is the use of the bound account book and the value added tax, which simplifies the procedures for calculating and paying VAT for taxpayers who occasionally provide international road transport services to passengers. That was the answer I got on July 10th. The second time I asked for an additional explanation immediately after this question, I received the following reply in September. I asked about the measures that had helped and had been taken by the Government. They wrote to me: promoting entrepreneurship, open call, lending programmes, open call, promoting the internationalisation of enterprises, open call, promoting entrepreneurship, open call. These are the tables that the government responded to. However, I asked what the Government of Mir Cerar had adopted during the period in which it had been, and the Minister in New York praised the measures that had contributed to economic growth. I assure you that the open invitation to tender is not a measure that has helped economic growth six months after the elections if you have taken these measures 2015 from June onwards. That's impossible. As regards regulation of the economy, stimulation of the economy, measures for the economy and economic growth, Mr Minister, this government has not taken these measures. All that has contributed to economic growth have been the measures of one of the previous governments, not the previous ones, but one of the previous ones, even before the one that set back, adopted the Law on Public Finance Balance, fixed procedures, simplified procedures, etc. Although part of this was changed by constitutional decisions, these were measures. And when we talk about what is also envisaged by the measures provided for in this financial framework for the next three years, as long as we only look at the tables when maximum burdens or reductions in budgetary expenditure are foreseen, then it is clear that these are not measures that would affect this government. This government, Mr Maramor, is not prepared to accept a proportionate burden. But in the period following the expiry of this government's mandate, you have three or four times anticipated greater burdens than during this government's period. If you have prepared a fiscal rule law, then it would be normal to expect at least a proportionate burden on you and not leave your successors with what would be the main problem for these public finances to be brought into the envisaged framework. However, it would be easier, Mr Marble, if good economic growth measures were to be envisaged, because, given that all these things are relative, it is said that revenue and expenditure are relative, which means that higher economic growth would also have proportionally more revenue from taxes and services and who else and could also be slightly different, given that everything is based on low economic growth, but problems. If we want to follow, at least follow the averages of the European Union, we should have better economic growth than the economies we are competing with and compared to a few percentage points. If we wanted to maintain it. However, if we are to catch them, it is true to catch up, but we need a substantial number of points of higher economic growth than the average of the European Union. And these measures are not meant to put the functioning of our economic system in such a way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u131	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia, together with Minister Dusan Maramor, claims that we have a fragile economic growth. New Slovenia argues that economic growth is solely the result of external factors. That is why I always first look at the economic trends in Germany. You all understand why in Germany. And I'm worried if there's cooling, I'm worried about what's going on with the Chinese economy, where our economy isn't, I don't know, how strong or focused it is, but it's an extremely strong economic player on the ground. We regret that, at that time, this government and this coalition have not done and has no intention of taking any concrete measures in the field of lower taxes, simpler procedures and an open economy. It seems that we will not experience the so-called social cap, the development cap, as we said in our clear solutions supported by the Slovenian economy in Novi Slovenija. We proposed solutions for Christmas, where the entrepreneur, the owner of the company, said, "I am willing to give up part of my profits, let the state be." And the state said, "No, but we will not give up part of your profits." That's why it's not Christmas. Christmas trees are in developed countries, and now I'm not going too far again, just into the northern neighborhood, they're actually kind of after the difolte. And what we are saying is that we need this moment, this moment, despite the fragile economic growth, is the perfect moment to implement structural reforms. We do not invent this ourselves in Novi Slovenije. I don't know if anyone was among you, colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Tonin and I were recently back at the Hotel Elephant, where Umar, OECD and Banka Slovenije are, because they analytically also presented the effects of unnecessary structural reforms. And it looks like no one's listening to them. Not Death, not Bank of Slovenia, not OECD. Nor does New Slovenia, which most often and very loudly draws attention to the problems that are present. Sometimes I think we have to start with the alphabet. Indeed, the Fiscal Rule Act and the fiscal rule implemented in the Constitution are new. I think that many times in discussions there is also a mix of what a structural deficit is, what a nominal deficit is, like it's all the same. Of course, I am not an economist, even less a professor of economics, but with my own, forgive me, but with physical knowledge I have somehow reached these definitions and I understand that the structural deficit, the structural deficit, is that budgetary deficit that is adapted to the estimated effects of the economic cycle. We need to watch the entire economic cycle, which again has four phases of economic theory: expansion, slowdown, recession and reheating. I would like to reiterate that the structural deficit is not the same as the nominal deficit. Mr Minister spoke of 57 measures, which, we understand, were only measures to reduce the nominal deficit and were by no means structural measures. I don't like a measure that, for example, reduces, weakens family policy. Of course, it will contribute to the nominal deficit, it will reduce it, but I do not like a country that has a bad family policy. It is also about improving competitiveness with us, where we do not have, colleagues and colleagues, the answers why there is no great crowd, a large drain by foreign investors who would like to invest in Slovenia. Does anyone see any crowds? She's not here. Why would foreign investors invest in us? What can we offer them? Are we competitive? What kind of labour market do we have? Can our employer forgive a bad worker? And similar questions that concern us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u133	The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I could take the debate today in three points. For those debaters who have largely run out of substantive arguments for some constructive criticism or comments on the decree, the framework has been reduced to a procedure. If we find that the framework of the National Assembly is to be adopted, the second paragraph of Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act states that the Government is to forward the proposal to the National Assembly and to the Fiscal Council and then further discuss the deadlines in this sentence. If I skip a second sentence talking about what a stability programme is, we have in third that the National Assembly will adopt a framework no later than five days before the deadline set for the intervention of the stability programme. If this second paragraph is read as if the Government's proposal for a framework was forwarded to the National Assembly and the National Assembly adopted a framework, then, for my sake, forgive me, the obligation of the National Assembly is clear, irrespective of the absence of the fiscal framework and the fact that, because it is not, it has not been transmitted to the Fiscal Council, the National Assembly still has an obligation to adopt the fiscal framework. From here on out, we can also come up with a debate about why there is no fiscal world. You often tell us that the world isn't because we haven't talked to you. But for me, I'm sorry, there's no substantive argument. I don't remember the debate about the candidates for the fiscal world, or today's, that you should mention with a word why some candidates aren't appropriate. No, out of some negative appeal, no, but you won't have it, because you haven't talked to us, you've rejected the candidates, just like you're rejecting the proposal of the framework today. That's not a substantive argument for me. I agree, however, that, from a political point of view, the coalition must and will have to make more political efforts to obtain the necessary two-thirds support at the time of appointment, in the second attempt to appoint members of the fiscal world. So much for procedure. Now if, despite everything, given that the procedure is not essential in this regard, we touch the content. Minister Mumor very logically explained the illogical result resulting from the use of the methodology proposed or recommended or requested by the European Commission. That the result was illogical, did not come up with Mr Minister himself, he received support for this German finance minister Schäubl as well as seven other finance ministers. This shows that the problem exists, that it is serious and that it is already under discussion with the European Commission. I have no doubt, I must say in person that those who have learned this problem in the methodology will somehow be able to demonstrate and prove that something is wrong with the methodology. What's the point of this? For 2017, at 2.3% GDP growth, which was highlighted as low for Slovenia, the calculation shows that the potential GDP growth is still 1.9% higher than the maximum potential growth, which is highest in the European Union. Then, on structural reforms, which are then part of the documents accompanying the framework. Of course, I can say that we can imagine reforms in one way or another. We agree that in some areas we still expect the greatest achievements. We are also aware of this in the coalition and do not run away from the responsibility that this will have to be done. The first steps in this direction have already been taken. The evidence that we have done nothing, that the coalition has done nothing, of course, does not stand for serious judgment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u135	The word is from Master Dusan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, President. The Minister for Finance sends a nice greeting, Members and Members of Parliament as well as to you! Both on the parental committee and today, there is a debate on a decree with only 4 articles. I must admit that as the 14th debate on the parental committee, there was not much talk about this today. But it was about all possible matters, especially how the Minister of Finance is misleading, doing nothing and so on. I must admit that I am firmly on his side, and I am also denying many statements by representatives of opposition parties in particular. It was also said that there is no legal basis for this decision. My colleague Krajnc has already mentioned something, the fact is that it is a legal basis. Those who have read the opinion of the Legislative-Legal Service, which clearly states that the legal basis of this framework is this act in Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act. So much for showing that certain activities carried out by the Ministry of Finance do not even have a legal basis. Your Honor! The fact is that for the financial situation of the state in which it is in its condition, I again point out that there is no reason to attack the government of Mir Cerar after a long and continuous period. The financial situation in which the country has been since 2008 is the same as it is. And the finance minister, together with the government, strongly wants and is also with a clear direction where the financial situation of the country would like to lead to 2020. Unfortunately, however, we have Members or some Members with a lot of problems in arguing why this is so or because virtually everything is wrong. Today, among other things, the recruitment of the New Ljubljana Bank was mentioned, and it was as if nothing had ever happened in the past that some had refused. For me, right now, if someone is already commenting on staffing at the New Ljubljana Bank, then they should also say something very clearly. The new Ljubljana Bank is perfectly capable of doing so, regardless of its staffing composition, both management and the supervisory board. And that's what's really important. Every Member in the National Assembly should then also conclude this in his own debate if he has any concerns about the recruitment, but I will not let this happen. As far as the members of the fiscal world are concerned, there were a few words about this. I'm going to re-emphasize what I am on the parental committee. We are all aware that a two-thirds majority is required to appoint a fiscal council. The reason that this did not happen, I think the Minister of the Interior was aware of this reality, and this is likely to be taken into account in his further activities. But do not rely on this because we do not have a fiscal world, that it is only a coalition that is to blame. The coalition doesn't have 60 votes. That's very clear. The next case, which is a typical case of the political abuse of individual words or Members, I can appoint a distinguished Member of the Council, Dr Trček. Those who were on the committee, and also present today, when there was a talk about this act that was before us, when he kept telling me that I had, because it was directly linked to me, already some kind of sacral look at the so-called credibility, so-called expediency, that I believed in this act. I would also ask from this city, and it will also be on the record that I should look at the MRI of the parent committee, where I have also made it very clear in this matter that I believe in this act prepared by the Ministry of Finance. There was no verbal connection to belief, not even to a sacramental relationship. This is a typical case where an individual Member, in this case an opposition Member, misuses the literal debate and the alternate word and follows its objectives accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u137	This concludes the general debate. No amendments have been tabled to the proposed decision. The vote on the motion for a decree will take place fully in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u138	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled, 18. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 11. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 48. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the amendment to the supplementary proposal has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 18. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities to Article 2. The explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group shall be mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that the amendment to Article 2 tabled by the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities is inappropriate from a nomological point of view, as the proposed solution puts an inappropriate article. The solution can only be achieved through a comprehensive reform of the law and with the implementation of a cultural heritage management strategy, when all relevant articles are open, in which it will be possible to adequately define the role of minority communities in cultural heritage decision-making processes. Legal and administrative measures for the protection of cultural heritage in national mixed areas are not only an inheritance that identifies national communities, but an entire population. Therefore, the proposal for self-government national communities to have the same powers as the State and municipalities in the development planning and declaration of monuments is not acceptable. The Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage treats equally and equally the entire heritage, including the heritage of members of national communities, and this is clearly stated in Article 1 of the Act which defines its purpose. The specific situation of indigenous national communities is undoubtedly taken into account by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but it should be pointed out at the professional level that it is necessary to assess whether the conditions for deciding on the status of cultural heritage are met for a purely professional issue. The professional evaluation of the fulfilment of the heritage elements may be carried out only by a certified expert with appropriate education who is empowered to do so within the framework of the public institution for the protection of cultural heritage. The placement of the amendment to Article 2 is not, by no means, appropriate and would not produce the desired results after the integrated regulation of the role of the national self-government communities, in particular because their powers are not defined and are not limited in any way. This, however, creates a further legal problem as it does not provide any basis for an assessment in the current form of possible legal proceedings. Our rejection of the amendment does not mean our disagreement with the inclusion of self-government national communities in the process of determining the status of cultural heritage. This is simply a consequence of the conclusion that the amendment, as proposed, raises more problems than it is actually able to solve. We see the solution in a comprehensive revision of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, detailing the role of national communities and not in the current amendment. The amendment doesn't belong to her, so we can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u140	Mr Roberto Battelli has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This explanation also prejudges the course of any further discussions on whether or not national communities have a cultural heritage, which is an integral element of their identity under the applicable Slovenian legislation and constitution. And these arguments are also pretentious, because at the same time it is good for the coalition to talk about other protection entities here, it does not bother, it is not undeclared, it is not systematically included as is supposed to be only legal communities. So these arguments aren't real. I call on my colleagues to at least vote on their conscience. At least I won't support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u142	Any other explanation for the voice? First, Dr. László Göncz has an explanation of the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As has already been pointed out several times today in the position and also in the debate under the agenda item, we simply wanted to stress the role of self-government national communities in creating cultural heritage activities. Since the first sentence in this regard, we have been aware that the articles are not such as to be able to solve this issue in a comprehensive way, so in view of the problems that are occurring in this area, we have focused only on explaining that, in the context of the explanation of concepts or expressions in that part where we believe there are no no nomotic problems, we should also consider only the administrative national communities as the most important subjects of indigenous national communities, which are also persons of public law at the same time. I would stress once again that this does not prejudice any systemic definition and that we would simply write with this amendment what the self-government national communities are already implementing on the basis of the Constitution and other legal provisions. It is therefore clear to me that, in the proposed form, I must support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u144	A self-explanation of the voice, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Anyone who at least partially or slightly deepens into the relationship they have in this country of authority and national communities will see quickly or know that what is enshrined in our Constitution is not respected to a large extent. I hope to say that the national communities also play an essential role in their activities in the field of cultural heritage, that is to say, the role of recording what is a cultural heritage. I think they are also relevant partners in the development of lists, in the preparation of proposals for what is included in the list, in the register of cultural heritage or in the way cultural heritage is dealt with. There may be some shortcomings in this amendment, of course it may be asked, but I will support this amendment today in particular or in one respect, and this is that at least if not the other, it will draw attention to the state's attitude towards national communities and the role I want to attach to them. In some ways, however, I think saying things about systemic solutions or promises of systemic solutions that will come someday is not enough. I think we have to commit in some way to change things, and I see this amendment just as one of these commitments, so I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u146	Mr Roberto Battelli has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, because the provinces aren't professional authorities either, and we don't have any. The congregations are also not professional bodies. I do not accept because I think it is insulting and underestimating to say that, and not for the first time that we do not have experts, we are not at the level, as I would say, aware of what cultural heritage is, and we do not know what its meaning is probably and so on. Let me point out once again that we know this very well. All ordinary people know this well, as stated in Article 1. We all enjoy cultural heritage and we all want to protect it as it should be. But the fact is that cultural heritage in Slovenia is diverse, rich and must be recognized and protected by all its aspects and named as they are called. That's all this is about. If not, there is a denial of cultural heritage. That's why I'm going to support this amendment, and if it's not adopted, I'm not going to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u148	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Both my colleague Roberto and my colleague Matthew have somehow said the point. I must say, I was a little dismayed when I read what my colleague Banet was going through to read, as my colleague Roberto said. It kind of sounded like the national communities didn't have enough intelligence, expertise and skills to participate in this matter if I put it that way. Fortunately, this Saturday I wandered a little through Prekmurje, and I am also fortunate that in a small family I have quite a few members of one of these national communities, I am also fortunate that in the narrowest nucleus of the family, in short, my dear, me and our bunch of children cross five national communities, if I may say so, from Slovakia through Austria, through Slovenia, through Hungary to Croatia, or I have forgotten something. And somehow, at this personal level, I find it difficult to vote against this kind of amendment. We will also have to think a little bit about another community in this House, for example, the one from which my very respected colleague, who spoke on behalf of SMC, came from a community from which my mother came, and someone else. This wording, which we are also witnessing here, somehow limits itself to something that I would almost hope to mark as the microfascism of the majority community against other communities, and to some such procedures within any legal formalist excuses I will never agree to. I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment. In case he doesn't support me, I won't hold back, but I will vote against this law, because somehow it's not just a mockery, it's, I'll say, constitutionally written.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u150	Mr Franz Leigh has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u151	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I'll say so. I fully agree with my predecessors who are on the side to support this amendment. I see absolutely nothing wrong with this amendment to support myself. However, if it does not support itself, I have the feeling that in some ways indigenous national communities are being excluded from these processes, which I believe is also constitutionally controversial. I call all things to the common sense that whoever, in his conscience, decides that this amendment will also be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u152	Is there any explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 38. (For the vote was 26.)(against 38.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the amendment to the supplementary proposal has not been adopted for a second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 2. (The vote was 46.)(against 2.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 18. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 50. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. (The vote was 66.)(against 1.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted for the second reading, the proposer has already proposed, in the introductory explanation of the draft law, that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that decision. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. A third consideration of the bill will be carried out by the National Assembly on Thursday, 21. 4. 2016, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. The amendment shall be open to this Article by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. This is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of European Union Customs Law under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019. Since the amendments to the amended motion for a decree have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decree in its entirety. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u153	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the State budget framework proposal for the period 2017 to 2019. We won't support him for a number of reasons. We are convinced that the key part missing here is not naming the fiscal world, which is the responsibility of the coalition and the government of Mir Cerar. We are also convinced that the material prepared by the Government or the Ministry of Finance is inadequate and poorly written. It is also true that we are on the tail of the European Union after the sustainability of public finances. The Eurogroup has therefore also degraded Slovenia from a group of countries which are largely in line with European budgetary rules to a group of countries where there is a risk of non-compliance with the rules. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the key actions that are missing in order to reduce the structural deficit are reforms. Slovenia urgently needs reforms. These are the only ones that have ensured that we can consolidate or stabilise public finances. We are also convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that, given the nearly two-year mandate already conferred by this coalition and the government, these reforms will unfortunately not be seen by the National Assembly. And there is no reason why this decree on this budget for the period 2017 to 2019 should also be supported, because we are confident that, sooner or later, this government will have to send a budget rebalancing for 2016 and, as a result, all these documents that the National Assembly is considering today are likely to break.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u154	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats of this Decision on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019 unfortunately cannot support. We regret, indeed, that, at this first step – yes, this is the first step towards adopting the budget documents for the period until 2019 – and that by this first step, by the way the coalition accepts it, it actually creates a major divide. But this time between the entire opposition and the coalition. I would also like to remind you that we have ever had a government that, along with the opposition, has supported an amendment to support the budget together. There's not actually going to be a possibility here. We regret that this is how you started by accepting the most important documents in this country. We're sorry. And I would like to reiterate that we, by means of the Fiscal Rule Act, have relied on regulations that implement the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact, i.e. European regulations, and this, in our firm conviction, includes taking account of their calculations. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking now that the EU methodology is not okay Yes, when will it be okay? [[…]] At the end of this term? It's irrelevant here now. We believe that the Minister is trying, perhaps some colleague of his, but how you will convince the citizens and the opposition that you are right. Indeed, with these excuses, that the methodology is not good, that we are actually significantly better than Europe shows us, and that is what our citizens know to say that we are not better. Look at those who live on the edge, on the edge of this country and the edge of this society, and you will see. They're expecting us, they're expecting structural reforms from the National Assembly. They expect us to take some measures to increase competitiveness so that there will be crowds concerning foreign investors. I can't see anyone. Why not? Why not? Is everything so perfect with us? It is high time that we made this country a more friendly, more favourable country for all citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u156	The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, chairman. As we have already announced in the debate on the Committee and yesterday and today, we will also vote against it. Let us first touch on some of the promises made by this government and this coalition to its citizens. The Social Agreement 2015, 2016, was signed by Mrs Anja Kopač Dark, SD-quota resort minister, as it is called. This year, the calculation of the minimum costs should be carried out and the minimum income should be aligned with it. The Europe 2020 strategy, which aims to somehow reduce the number of socially excluded by 84 000 by 2020, although it increased by 44 000 in 2010-2014. A coalition agreement that says that supplementary health insurance will be replaced by a public benefit. These are some of the promises made by this government. Even in the United Left, we would agree with the work of these promises, with an even deeper one. And we are now starting a debate on how we will live in this society and the country in the second half or the end of this decade. Yesterday, the leader of the SMC Group said that let us vote, let us extend the agenda so that we can get more information in today's debate. We didn't get information, we didn't get any information about social transfers. Mr Minister said that exactly as it must have been, he then talked about some methodologies. He said that methodologies are like rockets that do not work in Slovenia. These are the quotations from the Minister of Finance. That's not funny, mate, what you're grinning about. It's basically the Eurogroup, some club of gentlemen who's just doing something, and apparently sometimes he doesn't know what he's doing. Here we should ask ourselves together, or at least ask the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister of the Government and even the team and the coalition, as it should be, but for whom. But for the citizens and citizens of this country, this republic, which has some constitution, which is not some piece of paper to go to where the emperor goes on foot? But apparently somehow this coalition rides on this wave of self-sufficiency. It does not seem necessary at all to launch a serious debate on any such key document. And apparently, it will also take responsibility and end up in a dump in history, which would not be tragic if, at the same time, many citizens and citizens did not have to search the dumps because of such a policy. That is also why we will vote against it in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u158	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 47 for them and 21 for them. [[There were 47 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Turkmenistan on international road transport. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. By signing an international road transport agreement, the Republic of Slovenia and Turkmenistan have arranged for the carriage of passengers and goods by road between the territory of the Contracting Parties, transit through their territories and from a third country or from them carried out by carriers established in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties. International road transport of passengers and goods shall be carried out on the basis of permits, in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement. The Agreement also defines the types of transport which are exempt from the system of licences, namely the common provisions of the tax provisions, the mass and dimensions of vehicles, equipment and other characteristics of vehicles, controls, obligations of carriers and infringements, cooperation and the Joint Committee and the final provisions, which are the entry into force and duration of the Agreement. The Agreement was signed in the Slovenian, Turkmen and Russian languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u160	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present and 62 voted against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Turkmenistan on cooperation in the field of transport. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you very much. By signing the Transport Cooperation Agreement, the Republic of Slovenia and Turkmenistan have accelerated and strengthened transport cooperation based on the common interests of both countries, thus promoting economic cooperation and trade between countries. The Agreement creates conditions for the development of rail, air, road and maritime and river transport between countries. The provisions of the Agreement allow for the deepening of the mutual cooperation of the signatories with a view to fostering the development of transport and transport infrastructure. The signing of the agreement laid the groundwork for specific forms of cooperation between the ministries in the field of road, rail, air and maritime transport. This agreement was signed in Slovenian, Turkmen and English.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u162	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. (The vote was 66.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožet Tank, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Jožet Tank's question on fiscal matters. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. I asked the President of the Government a question, namely, who took over the tasks of the fiscal council – whether the government or the President of the government, and if that is the situation that the Government has brought us into, is illegal or even unconstitutional. Despite asking him an additional question or requesting an additional answer, the President of the Government did not answer these two questions. The Fiscal Rule Act, also adopted by the Government with the support of some opposition parties, provided for only one body, the Fiscal Council, which provided for a specific role in the examination of acts relating to the three-year budgets and also to reports to the European Commission. Thus, the Government has presented to the National Assembly a framework for the preparation of budgets and has not attached to the opinion of the Fiscal Council. This opinion was not given to the National Assembly, although it should have been in accordance with Article 7(3) of the Fiscal Rule Act. Given the fact that the President of the Government, when he was running for office, had set up respect for laws and constitution, this is what is said to respect the principles of the rule of law right at the top of his agenda, we would expect him to answer very precisely and precisely to such simple questions as they were. I didn't get that answer. Even more. The president of the government said that things need to be looked at in a relative way. One way to view these things is when you speak as a legal or constitutional expert. And another way is to look at the same provisions when you're a politician and you're doing these things. I believe that this country has one legal order, that we must look at the laws, regardless of the function we perform, all equally. Commitments must be the same for all. In view of the fact that the President of the Government has not explained the situation in any way, I propose that we hold a debate on his non-response at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u164	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal of colleague Jožet Tank. This debate, proposed by colleague Tanko, is now so much more up-to-date because you, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, adopted an illegal budget framework decree for 2019 a few minutes ago. These are the key reasons why we need to talk about a fiscal world that we don't have, which we probably won't have by the end of our term of office, because this government is not in a hurry, so we don't have masters to take the tool into our hands, which I repeat a hundred times, and the tool is called the Fiscal Rule Act. What will you do with the tool if it's securely closed in the window and you don't have any masters to use it?Oh, my God! There won't be any results. That is why this debate is so much more necessary and important, and that is why we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u166	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. Who's in? [[16 members.]] Who's against it? [[43 members.]] No decision is taken. In line with the proposal by Dr. Franz Trcko, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the speech of the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr Mir Cerar on Dr. Franz Trc's question on government measures in the area of poverty alleviation. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group is given by Dr. Franz Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you once again for the president's word, I hope that I will speak to you for the last time today. Even if most of the people who are here don't see it, there is poverty in this society. At the previous 17th session, we tried to initiate a debate on poverty by the opposition, and we were somehow over-voted. Yesterday, I asked Mr Cerar about this, I got some expected, mostly read answers, which somehow suggest that he doesn't understand the problem and that is why a serious debate should be held. I may have been somewhat unclear in some explanation of the decision on the budget framework, the promises I have read, the promises of this government, also the commitments of the Europe 2020 strategy, and so on, in an attempt to discuss the budgets for the next three years, have been over-heard. In the light of all this, it seems to me that this serious debate on poverty is essentially necessary. In the event that the coalition behaves again, I do not call, you vote, as you wish, in some way, that you do not see it or do not want to deal with it, will be the first step towards disclosing public opinion on this issue, and then, of course, we will continue to rumble through the committees, because there is nothing left for us as the opposition. Of course, in the United Left we will vote in favour. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u168	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. Who's in? [[20 members.]] Who's against it? [[43 members.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožet Horvat, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr Mir Cerar to the question of Mr Jožet Horvat on the procedures for returning Slovenian money from tax havens. An explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will, of course, support this proposal for a decision. We have examined even an important European Parliament resolution adopted on 21 May 2013 and we are talking about the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. This is a very important work of the then Slovenian Member of the European Parliament, Ms Mojce Kleva Kekush, who is not a member of New Slovenia, but we greatly appreciate her work with regard to this resolution. Among other things, we are deeply concerned about the finding by American economist James Henry, who has found that Slovenia has gone from 55 billion to 75 billion euros in tax havens in the last 20 years, what I know where, and has avoided paying taxes in the Republic of Slovenia. Colleagues and colleagues, if we are to make up for our development backlog in Slovenia over the past few years, we need to engage fantastic financial resources, which, with great indebtedness of the country, we will not be able to provide only with austerity measures and even with such high economic growth. Bad practices from the past have made it possible for some Slovenians to be more or less famous today, those who have more or less sympathized with the left political option to take away some tens of billions of euros from the country. And in fact, we know a lot about our developmental backlog. So it would be very useful if we could get at least one piece of that money back. While Prime Minister Miro Cerar said that by November 2014 the Government had set up an inter-resort commission dealing with this. On this occasion, I predict that before the parliamentary holidays, we will ask about the results of this Interdepartmental Commission. But as a basis, it would certainly be a very welcome debate that I have proposed. We Members of New Slovenia will, of course, support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u170	We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 45. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Culture mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar at Violeta Tomić's question regarding the maintenance of the Idrija mercury mine. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. As we know, this issue has escalated to a boiling point, and I think it would be good to find out what is behind this conflict in this national assembly. It is understandable that if part of the mercury mine in Idrija is listed on Unesc's list of cultural heritage, then the cultural ministry should take care of it, but that it must also take care of monitoring, water depletion and the wages of miners along with the so-called strict cultural budget, and I also think that the Ministry of Culture does not have the necessary personnel for such a thing, it seems unheard of. Especially because the inhabitants of Idria are threatened with sinking the whole city. Mayor Idrija Mr Bojan Sever said that bureaucrats should finally settle this matter. I'm threatening with a criminal complaint to the Prime Minister. He also offered three possible solutions. One is the abolition of the destruction of the mine, the other is the execution of a decision by the Government of June 2014 and the third in order to call for an invitation to tender for the concessionaire to take care of it. The municipality of Idria also offered to be a concessionary and to provide for miners and their lives. In short, we are asked a lot of questions about why the Prime Minister has put so much pressure on the Minister on this very issue of what is really her fault, because we are also interested in what is the logic of the rule here in Slovenia. I hear the minister was thinking with her head and it was the only sin, and I wonder if that's true. I am also interested in what decision it has violated and under which law the Government has adopted this decision, what is the legal status of the centre for the management of the heritage of mercury in Idrija and how this centre is financed. There are a lot of questions here, and I think it would be appropriate for us to have a debate on this subject in the National Assembly. But the cultors tell you, we take over all the mercury mines, all the mines that are active and inactive, provided there is also a gold mine among them. Otherwise, it is not in the budget of the already dwindled Ministry of Culture and the already dwindled Slovenian culture of resources so as to be able to accept additional obligations, because we have not heard that we would also receive additional funds for this purpose. In short, we would like to clarify these concepts and then make it easier to decide other things in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u172	We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 42. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following a proposal from Ambassador Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision:The National Assembly will hold a debate in the next meeting in response from Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Makovec Brenčič to Mr Tomaž Lisca's question on the financing of higher education. We're voting. There were 59 Members and Members present, 12 of whom were voted against and 44 against. [[There were 12 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Dimic's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate in the next meeting in response from the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. On Mrs Ive Dimic's question of tax policy in agriculture. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question was also about cadastral income, which is an important part of the tax policy in agriculture. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food under the leadership of Minister Mag. For the second time in the preparation of the calculation of the cadastral income, Dejana jedan is already involved in the preparation of the calculation of the cadastral income. What is prepared seems to me, if this is realized, will result in a complete breakdown of Slovenian agriculture. We also receive messages from the field today from people who, in one way or another, are affected by the cadastral income, that the increase from four times and up to one seventy times is on individual parcels. We got calculations for all of this. I think the subject is extremely serious, the most affected will be olive farmers, wine growers, foresters and also fruit growers. In the light of future tax policy in Slovenia and the burden of agriculture, please support my proposal. That's it. I also did not get an answer to the questions about how farm burden adjustments will be implemented in terms of their economic strength and the principle of proportionality and in what way, in what percentages, the correction of cadastral income will be carried out due to the limited possibility of production in areas with a specific regime and which regulation will provide for this. I have not received an answer to these two questions, which are very important for the calculation of the cadastral income, from Minister Dejan Židan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u174	We're voting. There were 58 Members and Members present, 12 of whom were voted against and 43 against. [[There were 12 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mesca, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Petr Gasperšič to the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Luke Mesca, on the issue of Termoelectric Trbovlje. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. I reminded Minister Gasperšić yesterday that this government, like many before it, had forgotten Zasavje. In Zasavje where we once had Trbovlje, a city with more jobs than residents, the situation has deteriorated dramatically over the past 17 years to the point that we can speak, as the Finances once wrote down, that Trbovlje became Slovenian Greece. One of the key reasons for this is the continuous transfer of responsibility to others and the failure of a type of government in this part of Slovenia. Yesterday I attended a meeting in Zasavje on the Energy Strategy in Zasavje and on the final closure of the TET, where I found that despite the deadline of 31. 7. for the closure of the TET when work is likely to lose the remaining 45 employees and the remediation of the landfill, which is environmentally hazardous there, will be questioned, while the rehabilitation of the entire location will be called into question. This government and HSE as well as SDH have no answers prepared – no, what will happen to the employees, no, what will happen to the location, no, what will happen to the dump. I therefore called on Minister Gasperšić to take action, but at the same time I call on the National Assembly to launch a debate on the development of this part of Slovenia, to which unfortunately we have not only been governments, but also a broader policy in Slovenia, obviously in the past decade and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-19-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u176	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 42. (For the vote was 16.)(against 42.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jernej Vrtovec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to Mr Jernej Vrtovec's question on measures to ensure a more effective appointment to the supervisory councils of banks. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 43. (For the vote was 12.)(against 43.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Zvonk Lah's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen to Mr Zvonka Lah's question on the amendment of spatial legislation. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. (For the vote was 12.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irene Majcen, to the question of Mr Franz Breznik's question on the rehabilitation of the abandoned gramosa near Lovrence in the Drava Field. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 44. (For the vote was 12.)(against 44.) I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
