ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mr Roberto Battelli, Dr László Göncz from 16:00 on, mag. Mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Bojan Podkrodšek, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Popotat from 12 p.m. to 14 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek, Violeta Tomić from 16 to 18.30 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček by 3.30 p.m., Mrs Eva Irgl, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek from 3 p.m., Mrs Urška Ban from 16 p.m., Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc, Mr. Igor Zorčič from 3 p.m. on and on. Branislav Rajich. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the Minister for Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anjo Kopač Mrak to the 28th item of the agenda, the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 29th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 2 December 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 25th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written statements of 38 questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Mr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. I will ask the President of the Government a question regarding the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia. If we look at the guidelines of the European institutions on how to manage the country, we see that we can do this well in the three guidelines. First of all, the government has to create politics. We can see that she is very poor in the field of health. Secondly, it must introduce transparent control mechanisms. For example, this does not work in the control of SDH, DUTB and other institutions. And the third time to answer to Parliament. We see, however, that responsibility is passed on to Parliament on many occasions rather than the other way around. If we look at the supervisory function, which is the key to the response to governance in the country, we see that the Bank of Slovenia appears as a financial and legislative oasis, similar to the Vatican, which no one can control. The Court of Auditors should regulate supervision, but it is not allowed by the State to do so as is necessary. The point is that the Court of Auditors considers the usefulness of using and acting to view the correctness and, in particular, how the supervisory function is performed. To see why there was a financial crisis. Just because the control mechanisms didn't work. That's why there's a bank hole, and we can't figure out who's responsible for this bank hole. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister: How will you ensure effective control of the banking system? And in the following order: Is there any change to the Constitution or any other appropriate law that the Court of Auditors will be able to effectively, unequivocally and independently review the operation of the Bank of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u3	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament has also used the question to say how bad the Government is doing, which, of course, it does not. Mr Dobovšek points out, however, that Mr Dobovšek withdrew from the coalition when he found that after what year of work he had done nothing, he had prepared no proposal to improve matters and instead moved between the opposition benches, where he could only criticise. But I'll say it very directly. This government has not made a bank hole, but is working hard to prevent such a bank hole from ever happening again. We are therefore establishing more effective supervision of banks and other institutions in the country in different respects. The Bank of Slovenia also needs more effective supervision. Reliable. We need to know that the Constitution provides that this bank is independent and directly accountable to the National Assembly. Its operation is governed by the Bank of Slovenia Act and must also be in line with the European rules applicable to European banks within the area. Therefore, the Bank of Slovenia must operate in accordance with the Treaty on European Union and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. Banka Slovenije must be provided with functional, institutional, financial and human resources independence in accordance with these rules. However, some more effective controls must be put in place so that we do not get to what has happened in recent years. For the time being, there is an external auditor established by this special position of the bank, the scope of the audit covers all areas of business here and the bank also provides its financial statements to audit to an independent international auditor recommended by the Council of the European Central Bank and endorsed by the Council of the European Union. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia acts on the basis of the Law on the Court of Auditors and its decisions are binding on users in the audits. This means that if this court carried out a review of the operation of the Bank of Slovenia, this would affect the performance of the functions of the Bank of Slovenia, the independence that has now been determined. Such an exercise of the review under the current legislation, the legislation we have inherited, which, as is applicable, would be contrary to the Constitution, Article 152 of the Constitution, contrary to the implementing legislative provisions and European regulations of this area. Therefore, it is not possible, under the applicable Law on the Court of Auditors, to carry out audits that are sufficiently effective. It could only be a review of the correctness of the implementation of the rules of the Bank of Slovenia, but not what Member Dobovšek rightly points out, to the supervision of business banks because it is linked to the European system of central banks. If we want to have some meaningful control over the Bank of Slovenia and thereby its control over business banks, we need to change the law. And this change has already been made. At the beginning of this year, we have prepared it in the Government – a supplement to the Bank of Slovenia Act, which would ensure the implementation of the audit of the Court of Auditors over the Bank of Slovenia and in accordance with the insurance which is important for the preservation of the independence of this central bank and which the European Central Bank envisages to make this control effective. We sent the draft law to the European Central Bank in the spring, which did not have any substantive comments on it at the time. However, since some stakeholders, including the Court of Auditors alone, have proposed some new solutions, including additions, in the process of further consideration, a new legislative proposal, which we have drawn up immediately after that, has been sent back to the European Central Bank for its opinion. We expect this opinion on 20 December this year. If I say so again. The government is still in a position to control, so we have just put together this government to tighten up such matters so that mistakes from the past will no longer take place. We have already prepared a law at the beginning of the year that will establish this supervision of the Court of Auditors over the Bank of Slovenia, but in order not to come into an unconstitutional, illegal situation, we have put this into the opinion of the European institutions responsible for this to tell us whether we can fully implement this solution and then implement it. We are all aware that because of the special constitutional situation of Banka Slovenije, it is so important that it must be ensured that it operates independently. Politics must not directly interfere with this. However, this institution, like each other, needs effective supervision, but one that will also be in accordance with the European Regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u5	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you. The European Central Bank certainly has the same problem as you have presented it. The European Court of Auditors also wanted to review the functioning and supervisory mechanisms of the European Central Bank, but it received an answer which, legally, can be interpreted very differently. Again, it's about the creative interpretation of the law and the creation of defence mechanisms so that such control will not be introduced. Just like we do in Slovenia. If it's willful, that's what you can do. The point is that the European Court of Auditors has received an answer to verify the operational efficiency of operations. What is operational efficiency, and no one knows. Under this government, Slovenia is waiting again for some European directives, instead of taking action and taking control on its own. As far as this supervisory function is concerned, the government could have done more. The opposition has repeatedly proposed solutions that the coalition did not want to accept. With regard to that personal approach, I would like to stress to you the book The Fifth Branch of Power, which shows exactly the problems you've pointed out, but you don't want to solve them, but in the week of the fight against corruption, this book will look at the light of the world, so your first copy will be [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u7	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I'll just fill in the answer for a minute. Of course, I will look at the book, like many other books that I have already looked at, but I always think that if someone can do something in this temple of democracy in concrete terms, it is as important, sometimes even more than if they are criticising, but there is an opportunity that does not take advantage of it. But let me say, Slovenia is not waiting for any EU directives. You didn't listen well, Mr. Ambassador. At the beginning of the year, Slovenia adopted, prepared legal changes, and put them in the opinion, because we do not want, as you said, where there is a will, to do something about it, we do not want to change things just by doing what we want. Amendments to such important arrangements as supervision of the highest banking institutions must be legally ensured. The rule of law requires that we do so in accordance with the international law applicable to Slovenia, our Constitution and that we adapt the laws to that. So don't worry, the government will establish, ensure that this control is possible. If the Court of Auditors is his contractor, I believe it will do him well. Above all, I would like the Bank of Slovenia and all the other banks to find within themselves the right consciousness, the responsibility that will still be required in our society, in order for all institutions to act in harmony for the benefit of citizens. Don't worry, the government is working. We'll set up surveillance and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u9	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u10	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I expect us to deal more widely at the next meeting. In view of the fact that small shareholders will press charges against Banka Slovenije, given that the coalition agreement provides for the resolution of the bank hole, and given that the supervision of Banka Slovenije has not been established, I expect confirmation of this kind of debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u11	Dr Bojan Dobovšek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13 December 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Branko Grims, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u12	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! The national archives represent an invaluable national wealth, as they are the most important historical source of the functioning of the country and its institutions, as well as of state officials over a period of time. Without the availability of this source, every analysis of each country's history is incomplete, and in some parts it is not possible. An analysis of the history of a country that is not based on this source can quickly become a subject of manipulation, which then has no connection with history. In Slovenia, this issue is all the more important because the archives were in a crucial period of independence and just before the first democratic elections, when they were dealt with deliberately in a way that destroyed them and thus fled from the truth hidden in these archives. But these archives exist in a copy in Serbia, in Belgrade. In Slovenia, therefore, the founder, the first democratically elected assembly, when adopting the basic documents, has defined this even at the constitutional level. Archives are subject to constitutional regulation in Slovenia. In the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Charter of Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the founder then unequivocally stated that the Republic of Slovenia belongs to all SFRJ national archives relating to the Republic of Slovenia. In order to implement this constitutional decision, the Government should request the extradition of all archives of the former SFRJ relating to the Republic of Slovenia before the opening of the Education and Culture chapter, which is also part of the issue of the archives of the former SFRJ. Only then will such a request be effective. This is clearly demonstrated not only by the experience of other countries, but also by the Slovenian experience with leniency with the trial of Slovenia's strategic interest in access to the high seas or arbitration. Instead, on the symbolic day of 29 November, at only 48 hours for 2 December at 7.30 a.m., when there is usually no meeting, you convened an extraordinary meeting, at which you gave your consent to open and even close this chapter, and in fact left to the mercy and mercy of Serbia. However, since this was done consciously in the wake of a warning, it is an obvious unconstitutional act. And that's why I'm asking you: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia hereby substantiates [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u13	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you very much, distinguished Member, Mag. Grimes. I'm sure we share your concern in the government for all those archives that belong to us under a successor agreement from the former SFRJ. However, I must explain that chapter 26, entitled Education and Culture in Serbia's negotiation process for membership in Europe, is in no way related to the subject of the legacy of the archives of the former SFRJ. The question of the succession of archives is addressed by another agreement, namely, the Agreement on Succession Issues and the Archives of the former Yugoslavia are not an integral part of the content or legal order of the European Union. If what you are proposing was to be done by Slovenia, it would be unacceptable to abuse this procedure and, therefore, the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to open and suspend this chapter does not mean that we renounce the archives that belong to us in accordance with an agreement on inheritance issues. On the contrary, and I want to make this very clear. Our government recognises the legacy of the archives of the former Yugoslav SFR as extremely important and addresses it at all relevant meetings. Thus, in October 2016, we have recently highlighted this in Belgrade at a joint meeting of the two governments and reached an excellent agreement to submit to us a list of 43 international treaties from the diplomatic archives of Serbia, which are already ready for surrender and we will probably get them back by the end of this year, and this is only one part of the process that continues intensively. So our government has already managed to gain some of this, and we continue this very intensively. Indeed, the issue of the succession of archives cannot be addressed in accordance with the procedures and rules of the European Union under this Chapter. For this reason, the negotiating processes of the EU candidate countries, including Serbia, are taking place in a way that requires the Member States to give their consent to the proposals submitted by the European Commission. The draft common position of the European Union for this chapter was received by the Member States by the European Commission on 18 November 2016. The documents are the result of a longer process known to Members. The draft Common Position of the European Union sets out by the European Commission that the acquis in Chapter 26, Education and Culture, is limited. The criteria for the temporary closure of this chapter are not exceptionally necessary, and therefore the European Commission has proposed to the Member States, including Slovenia, the opening of the said chapter and, at the same time, the suspension of the said chapter. In this chapter, the candidate country, namely Serbia, must in particular provide adequate institutional and human resources capacities for participation in EU programmes and adopt appropriate policies in this area. So that opening up and suspending this chapter is not unusual at all. The same has happened in the case of Croatia, Iceland and Montenegro. Since the procedure is obtained on these consents, in Slovenia also requires treatment before the competent committees of the National Assembly, which is an exception, this short period of time in Slovenia has changed into some specificity. However, all the conditions remain for this matter to be closed within this short period of time. So let me be very clear: there will be no damage to Slovenia, there will be no unconstitutional behaviour of the Slovenian government in any case, but it is only a matter of properly participating in these accession processes of the new members who wish to join this bloc and the wider European family. So I repeat – this chapter you are mentioning, and what you mentioned is in no way related to the subject of the legacy of the archives of the former Yugoslav SFR. Slovenia will do everything in this process, which, of course, we intensively continue, to obtain all those archival documents, the materials that belong to us. And I assure you that there is still a way in which I would say my vision and we will make every effort to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u15	Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I say quite often that in this House we need grass to tell the truth, or at least a serious consideration of the way in which this government and this coalition work in the parallel world. For what you state, Sir Cerar, has nothing to do with the reality of the modern world and the European Union. All negotiations, when a new potential member was involved in the European Union, have in fact been conducted in such a way that bilateral issues have been clarified before or at the latest at the time of the opening of each chapter. At that time, the country that wants to be included is more open, more sensitive and is ready to give up on various problems. All else is letting go of the mercy and mercy of some further trade. At the meeting, one of the coalition members said funnyly, "Well, now they're going to require all of Tito's vehicles from the museum to give us some of the archives." That was your coalition that said that. And he just put it right. If things don't work out in time, then it's all business. This is not about 43 contracts, but it is about huge archives of individual institutions – from the presidency of the former Socialist Republic and through the secret political police of Slovenian work through the secret political police of Slovenian work, through the ordinary police and so on. In short, everything that is being sent to Belgrade. And you know it. Such conduct means that you have conscientiously given up the only effective means to actually deliver these archives and thus to implement a constitutional provision that is crystal clear. This is part of the constitutional order and you are a constitutional lawyer, and you know that in all your work it binds you and that you should do everything to make it happen. And you left consciously out of hand by rushing the only effective means. This is a real situation now. And this is a state that has elements of high treason and that has [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u17	Time [[…]] President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u18	In fact, I answer only for the public's sake, because I am simply speechless to such really reckless comments as this about treason and also about unconstitutionality. These are so unfair, so unfair, and I think the Member is unworthy of insinuating that I have only to reject them with one word and say the following. Serbia's process on the path of joining the European Union will be a very long one, Mr Grims. When you talk about timing, you should also think about such things, if you are already insinuating some things that are very incorrect, but you do not see what it does in terms of the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia outside. You have repeatedly made statements that have embarrassed us needlessly in the world because they were unfounded. And that's something I can't agree to as Prime Minister of the Government that Slovenia is muddling in public also outside the country. I'm not going to agree to that. And I'll tell you this: I obviously see some bad news here, because in all the previous governments, and some have also been under your domain, there has been no progress. Now that we've got some stuff from the Archives, you raise your screams and screams so that it doesn't get noticed, and you focus on some topic in an improper way. I made it very clear that we are not doing anything unconstitutional, nothing that would harm Slovenia. But we're doing what could have been done a long time ago, but it wasn't. But with this work we will continue and believe that you too are with us, because I believe that the National Assembly wants what you wish to rightly refer to here is the same goal. But the path, as you suggest or the ways and the unnecessary accusations and the untruths, are really, I would say, very much exaggerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u19	Mag. Branko Grims, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u20	I propose that there be an urgent debate at the meeting of the National Assembly on this extraordinary urgency of urgency, giving consent to the opening and even closing of the chapter Education and Culture for Serbia, which is in fact also part of the issues of archives, the State archives of the former SFRJ, which belong to the Republic of Slovenia under constitutional law. You yourself have said, Mr Cerar, that this will be a process that will last for a few years. And it's been a few years. So why did this have to be done within 48 hours and why it did not want to be removed from the agenda until all these questions were clarified, it is likely that the answer is clear. It's about running away from the truth. Only the continuation of one and the same escape from the truth, which once meant the systematic and planned destruction of exactly the same archives, the part or copies that were located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Now it does not want to allow unhindered access for historians, for everything about Slovenian history, as required by constitutional order. This causes invaluable historical damage and is clearly inconsistent with the Slovenian Constitution. That is why it is essential that the National Assembly speak about this. You have given up the only effective means, supported by the entire history of the European Union, all the history of approximations, associations, accession processes of individual countries when they joined the European Union, when an open issue could be dealt with relatively quickly and easily in a manner that would not only be expected by a responsible government that respects its own history and interests of the Republic of Slovenia, but even requires it to be implemented by the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Basic Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia. The only effective remedy you threw out the window in 48 hours of rush. That's unacceptable. It was done consciously. And because of that, ladies and gentlemen, I should have spoken to the National Assembly about this. The matter is now at the point where it will likely sooner or later break into something as bad as, unfortunately, Slovenia has been embroiled by international arbitration, where, by the way, they are now dealing with who gave the information to, but not how the two representatives of the Republic of Slovenia, including the Slovenian Government, could speak great nonsense on the open line of the phone about who and on whose side the judges were. So, ladies and gentlemen, this ends. And it better end with the debate in the National Assembly than with the constitutional indictment of the President of the Government, who is a constitutional lawyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u21	Mag. Branko Grims, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13 December 2016, in the framework of the votes. Luka Mesec, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! In 2013, the Slovenian State, together with state-owned banks, sold the domestic company Helios to the Austrian Ring for EUR 145 million. Last week, the media reported that the same Ring has now sold the company for €572 million. So the difference over three years is almost €400 million in sales prices. This does not surprise me, because the business model of speculative takeover was quite clear from the very beginning. Ring did not invest any euro in Helios. On the contrary, what it has done is to optimize the profits by losing 200 employees, by abolishing a number of local community funding, at the forefront of ending the financing of the fire brigade and so on. The profits are up, the sales price is up, but look what we've got under the line. Below the line are 200 people on the road, projects and the local community led by the fire brigade were left without funding, the state, I could say, was injured here for more than ten if not more than 100 million euros. That's why my first question, Mr. Prime Minister: What will you do? Will you request a revision of the privatisation of Helios, as provided by Article 69 of the Slovenian State Holding Act? I'm interested in a concrete answer: yes or no. And if not — why not? Next. Helios is not yet the only example of such practice. Your government, for example, sold the NKBM, the second largest Slovenian bank to which we invested over one billion euros by taxpayers. The country sold it for 250 million euros, even though the book value was 600 million euros on the day of sale. It is said that hundreds of millions of euros were literally donated to a private owner, in this case again to a speculative fund that is likely to repeat the Helios story. The company rescinded as a lemon, as reported by the media, optimized profits and resold them dearly. Again at the expense of the local community, at the expense of the state, at the expense of us citizens and citizens. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Prime Minister, in the second question: Do you intend to continue with such practices? What are you going to do to stop them? In particular: How will you prevent our companies from coming into the hands of speculative funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u23	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much, honourable Member Luke the Moon! First of all, I must repeat the known fact, but it is obviously not known that our government has finally settled this area in 2015, which you find to have been quite wild in recent years, since Helios was also sold during the previous government, for example, after a procedure that was not very clear. We also know that that government has created a list of 15 companies for sale without any strategy, without some deliberate plan, but in some difficult situation for Slovenia, for sure. However, with the State Investment Management Strategy, we have regulated this area, defined companies of strategic importance for the country, defined those that are important, those who have portfolios and mandates full of clear tasks of the Slovenian State Holding, SDH, that according to the principles of good governance, i.e. corporate supervision, lead also this part, which is part of privatisation when it comes to state investment. We now have the final management of state property with clear criteria for how this is regulated for the benefit of this property and, consequently, the countries and citizens required for profitability, the criteria under which the business should be assessed. And from here on out, I can only comment limitedly on such sales as Helios, the ones about NKBM and others that were not even covered in your introductory question. However, these are some of the things that are in the key domain of the Slovenian State Holding which is carrying out privatisation processes. In this regard, let me just say, because I can only express my opinion and assessment, because I reiterate this, the Government, I am not even competent to make my own decisions. These are processes that have to be carried out according to the professional criteria within SDH, but in 2013, Helios was sold at a lower price than the Japanese investor's days ago, but we need to understand that in the meantime, in this interim period, which is a few years, a good three years, a lot has happened. Therefore, from a corporate point of view, the company which was sold at the time, and was now sold forward to the Japanese, is no longer the same company. There have been many changes here. We know that following the arrival of new owners in the company there has been a rationalisation of business, a withdrawal from certain non-profit markets, a strengthening of the field of development and innovation research, the introduction of a number of new products, and a significant increase in profitability and a reduction in indebtedness. Unfortunately, I am joining you here, and there has also been a reorganisation to reduce the number of employees, including the dismissal of workers, and as you mention, at some point the fire brigade has received less or more of what was expected. I'm sorry this has happened, but this is in the corporate governance domain. As we can see, the perspective of this company can be, if this consolidated company is now to develop under the Japanese strategic owners, through a good business model, along with an associated Austrian company, it can be a story that will lead back in the right direction. But what are we trying to do? In order not to involve politics — me, you, whoever is here — directly interferes with the economy. What was done in the previous years when the parties employed literally. This is what the Slovenian State Holding is doing today. We can express our views, we can hold a public debate on this, we can be critical, at the most critical moments the government will react as a assembly, but if any irregularities have been committed here, then it must first point to these irregularities by SDH itself, to detect them and to deal with them. Only if things were to go overboard and go under the authority of the government as a congregation would it be credible, I assure you, the government reacted. When we talk about depoliticizing the economy, I see many people laughing, laughing at it and so on. That's why I'm going to insist! Because this has really been happening and we need to overcome these practices. This does not mean that things are now flawless, that there are no mistakes and bad practices. But one of the serious mistakes was that politics could have been directly involved there. This strategy has also significantly changed after some of the previous processes, and we will do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u25	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you again, for your word. Yes, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you, if you can answer me specifically: Will you review the privatisation of Helios, as provided by Article 69 of the State Holding Act? Yes or no? I wonder if you'll or won't. If you don't, I want to know: Why not? As much damage as privatisation caused in Slovenia, I think it was caused by only a bank hole and denationalisation. Only if we look at these two cases. In Helios, I think the numbers I said are pretty eloquent. The difference in sales price is EUR 400 million, in NKBM the difference between the invested money and the purchaser EUR 750 million, in Mercator 2 000 300 less employees than in 2014. See, all this goes not only to the costs of the state budget, it goes to the costs of suppliers, to the costs of local communities, to the costs of the population. That's why I'm interested in what your government will do. It's not all your government's privatisations, it's all yours. But no one was responsible for any damage caused. That's why I want to know: What will you do? Are you going to do an audit? I'll tell you another case from abroad. In Germany, a law has been passed since 2008 which prevents any sale to speculative funds, Taiwanese acquisitions and so on. There is no such law in Slovenia, or even worse, when we opened such a debate once on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, your ministry's response was that such differences should not be made because this would be contrary to European law. In short, your Government's response was that what is said in Germany or in France is a consistent practice to prevent companies from coming into the hands of speculators, tax havens, straw companies, that we should not do so in our country because this is prevented by European rules. I'm sorry, the European countries have this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u27	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u28	You asked so many questions that even a quarter of an hour wouldn't have been enough to answer all your questions. But if I just say it again, I can't say anything about Mercators and other things except that it happened at another time. For things that our government can regulate, along with the National Assembly, and we have begun to regulate, I can say that we are changing such practices. And certainly, if it turns out to be necessary to send the police or investigative authorities, the inspectors, we will do so. And we've done it many times before. If it turns out that any revision is necessary in this or any other procedure, we will do so. But first, the competent authorities need to see if your claims hold you. I expect this to happen, to be checked. When I get the information on this, we'll see where we are. The easiest thing to say in general is that it was sold for more than it was bought after three years of the development of a company without concrete analysis and then charge someone. Again, this may be dangerous, but this is not how the rule of law works. However, it is absolutely necessary, and I agree, to pay attention to this, to monitor, investigate, identify what has happened and act immediately thereafter. But right after that. That is why we will have the matter very clearly on the horizon, but first let the competent authorities do their duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u29	Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you. When we are talking about extreme differences like the cases of these companies that I used to illustrate, I think we can talk about a reasonable suspicion of damage to state property. This reasonable suspicion of damage to State property is the subject of Article 69 of the SDH Act, which I refer to, which allows the revision of privatisations. Let me remind you of Article 68 of this same law, which says that supervisors in SDH are liable for damages. And this is my call, Prime Minister, for your government to ensure, for the first time, that such practices are reviewed back and that it is determined whether the state property has been damaged. I'm not talking about finding witches or anything like that, but check it out, make sure you have a clear review of whether or not the state property has been damaged, and secondly, to prevent this from happening. We can prevent it from happening very easily. I have told you two practices of two great European countries – France and Germany, which have made it legally impossible for companies to take over speculators. Not only do we find them in the hands of speculators, but even a state-owned holding company, which is supposed to look after responsible owners, as the Government says, sells to speculators who will extort these companies, forgive employees and continue to resell. This is currently happening with the second largest Slovenian bank. I therefore demand that we discuss how we will settle and find responsibility for the return, how we will prevent speculative acquisitions and looting in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u31	Luka Mesec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13 December 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Škoberne, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to begin by saying that I do not intend to sell any books, that I do not have historical paranoia, and that I do not care why private people sell their private property. I am interested in something that is essential for the development of Slovenia and what this government can do and I think it must do. One of the key commitments to our citizens and citizens is to ensure equal opportunities for all and to provide adequate infrastructure for the equitable regional development of Slovenia, so that both economic operators and people can take advantage of all the potentials available in this country. One of these key stories is the third development axis in its entirety, from the White landscape to the northern part of Koroška. We have debated several times that the results of this work, as well as the previous governments, are good, that we have economic growth, that we know differently than we have in the past, that we also manage the potentials of this country. That's why I want to know: What is the time frame for the final placement and placement of all the arms of the third development axis into the space? When can we expect the construction of individual arms, or when can we expect to be successful and also start all the activities that Minister Gasperšič has already announced for placement and, above all, for the beginning of the third development axis? Finally, we do not only need this axis because it is needed by the biggest exporters of the Republic of Slovenia, we also need it because today we do not adequately cover all the potentials between the existing arms. The potential of this country is not only on the Koper-Ljubljana-Maribor line, there are also many others. Today, we do not take advantage of the economic potential that we have in people, in knowledge, in nature, because the whole logistics of Slovenia is not yet optimally connected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u33	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much, distinguished Member Jan Škoberne. I agree with you. It is an emergency that needs a very active government and other entities to update these long-term roads, the long-term infrastructure in all parts of Slovenia where it is necessary. Due to the long-term undernutrition of the infrastructure budget and inactiveness, there are practically more than half of Slovenian roads, speaking only of today's long-lasting. At the beginning of my mandate, we have set ourselves a very clear objective, together with the government, that we must modernise transport and energy infrastructure urgently. That is why we have also increased the competent ministry to this end by the coming years of budgetary resources. In 2016 and 2017, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Dars, together with it, has 334 different interventions in terms of renewal and modernisation of road infrastructure. If we continue with this trend, Slovenia will be able to establish a quality and European comparable level of state roads within six years. And this is my vision, as you say, that Slovenia would have quality road and other infrastructure connections and would remain green. So quality-related green Slovenia. I think it's a vision we have to pursue. We are now specifically ahead of decisions. We know none of them are easy. Any decision about a new road, a new link, even though it may be in the interest of many, for whom the burden is, of course, some injury and the like. But when compromises are concluded, some decisions need to be drawn, and we will. In this area, we are now going to a crucial phase. At the moment, on the route of the north and south of the third development axis, in the final stage of the construction, the state spatial plan for the state road during the connection to the A1 motorway is Šentilj-Koper near Šentrupert and Velenje connection and the plan for the state road from Malina to the international border crossing of Metlik and Črnomelj south connection. The Ministry will provide materials for the northern part for handling and acceptance of the Government already in December this year, i.e. allegedly next week or one week after it, and for the southern part at the beginning of 2017. The materials are in the final stage of preparation and now we are actually going to the next step. Plans for sections from the A1 to Velenja south–Podlog motorway, for the state road between Slovenia Gradec south and Dravograd with bypasses, the state road between the Holmec international border crossing and the Otiški vrh connection, and for the state road from the Črnomelj south to the international border crossing of Vinica are now in peace, but in accordance with the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, the measures that will also need to be implemented here as soon as possible and will be part of the reconstruction of the existing infrastructure. Pursuant to the resolution, the construction of the northern part of the third development axis between Šentrupert and Slovenj Gradec is foreseen for the period 2018-2022 and the section from the A2 motorway is Ljubljana–Brežje, with the New Town until the connection of Osredek, including the Šentjoska road to Revoz and for the period 2018–2020. Then there is the section from Revoz to Malin, after 2018 it is planned that work will be realized here. In 2017, Dars will launch intensive project documentation and land acquisition procedures in sections where state spatial plans are already being adopted. So this is also a little more concrete, and for more technical explanations, you will be able to contact the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of the Environment, if you participate here. But I stress, we are working intensively on updating Slovenian infrastructure, road infrastructure, including railways, we are working on reconstruction and new projects. Now is also the time when we have acquired many of the documentation already created the conditions for the overhang into the implementation phase. We can no longer postpone here, even if there are concerns, decisions need to be made and done for the good of people, businesses and others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u35	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 22nd and 24th meetings of the National Assembly. Mr Karel Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, should answer the question of mags. Branislav Rajić, in connection with the reorganisation of the network of diplomatic and consular representations, also in the countries of the African continent and Matjaž Hanžka in relation to the promises made by the President of the Republic regarding verouk, is absent today due to his participation in the Council of the European Union for Foreign Affairs in Brussels. At the same time, the two Members are not present today and the Minister will answer these two questions in writing. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving on to the question raised at the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of the Interior, mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar will answer Dr. Vinko Gorenak's question regarding the preparation of the Republic of Slovenia for a possible new migratory wave.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Members, honourable Members of the Republic of Gorenak! At your previous meeting, you asked me a question concerning the protection of the southern border from the point of view of illegal migration. In doing so, you also explicitly highlighted another aspect, namely that the State should prepare or take all necessary measures to secure the border, as did the Austrians. You also mentioned the Foreigners Act, which, according to you, would lie in the drawer of the Prime Minister. Initially, my position has always been that the State is obliged to take all the measures necessary to effectively control migration flows and to ensure security. The circumstances at this point are slightly different from those we have faced in the past. Some of the moves have taken place, the EU-Turkey agreement remains in force at this time, and Greece has moved forward, has also received a great deal of help, and the hotspots are also partially established in Italy, and the Greek-Macedonian border remains closed. The European Union has also launched a pilot project on partnerships with several foreign countries, which is also important in terms of return. In particular, several very clear guidelines have been adopted at this time both by the Council of Ministers and by the European Council, which have made it clear that the organised transit of migrants across the territories is no longer allowed, meaning that Article 5 of the Schengen Code no longer applies and that Member States at the external border of the European Union must comply with the requirements of the Schengen acquis, regardless of whether they are members of the Schengen area. In particular, from the perspective of the Western Balkan route, this is the Croatian-Serbian border. Of course, the situation is still extremely difficult, especially because countries in the north have established internal border controls. There are several factors of instability. For us, the most unstable element in the whole story is the situation in Serbia, where there are already about 10,000 migrants who are unlikely to be granted asylum in Western Europe. Of course, it is also worrying that Greece is planning to transport migrants from the islands to the mainland, which can then mean an even greater increase in illegal migration. The Republic of Slovenia is very intensively preparing and monitoring the situation in the region. I have reported on national measures in writing, orally, to the National Assembly on several occasions. I do not think we need to sum it up because I am sure that the Member knows all our actions very well. But I'm only going to stop at the point of view that he mentioned himself, that's the Foreign Act. The Ministry of the Interior has also drawn up legislative solutions and measures to enable the police to function effectively in the changed migration situation, which would endanger public order and internal security. This law was removed from the government's agenda or, as you say, stuck in a drawer. But it is quite clear that transit will not be. On this basis, it is also possible to conclude that there will be a massive request for international protection in the Republic of Slovenia. And my position is unchanged. It is the duty of the State to take all measures to ensure security and stability also in the case of mass migration. Slovenia has very limited capacity, we are a small country, the smallest country on the Western Balkan route and in the event of a massive increase in migration flows, there may also be a threat to the functioning of certain basic functions of the country, in particular in the area of asylum, because this can lead to a break in the asylum system, and Slovenia can also experience scenarios such as those experienced in Austria, Germany, Hungary, when these people did not actually have a place to go and were driven by stations, parks. That's not what we want. Basic care, health care, education, integration and, last but not least, security could also be at risk. It must be said that the effective management of mass illegal immigration can also endanger possible deterioration of public order and internal security, and this is in some ways also a reflection of the sovereignty of the State, so our views on the Foreigners Act are unchanged. The Ministry's position is that they are not in conflict with the Constitution, not with international acts, because if anyone at the Ministry believed that they were violating these very important acts, they would not have proposed that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u37	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much. President, I'm going to go a little beyond this context, this answer to this question from the previous sitting. Look, you're the president of the National Assembly, another person in this country. What happened before? In response to the question sent by Luke Mesca, the President of the Government of this country said, "If necessary, we will send the police." Excuse me, since when does the Prime Minister or the Government send the police? But I'm afraid then in this country, if the government or the president of the government can send the police around every corner. The Prime Minister doesn't know what he's saying. That's why I'm going to ask the question of how long has the President of the Government been sending the police? As far as this is concerned, the Minister's response is concerned, I'm a little confused right now. As an opposition Member, I should criticize the Minister, but I don't know what she's done, and I should do it. Now I have a problem. But I have a problem because the Minister has done something that I think is right and the President will handcuff her. That's the problem. The Minister prepared the Foreigners Act, which foresees everything the Minister said, including the closure of the border at some point when the state of Slovenia is no longer able to accept migrants. And the President of the Government will not send this law to Parliament. I don't expect the Minister to give me any further answers, because she actually answered everything. Anything you need. The problem is the Prime Minister, not the Minister. That is why we will probably have to decide in this country how we will proceed in this area and what we will do to effectively protect the borders of this country. I don't know, Minister, I don't expect it or go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u39	In view of the fact that this was not a request to complete the reply, I believe that this was not a request to complete the reply, but was a comment. But it is an integral part of Parliamentarianism that we speak and have different opinions. So – Minister, is there anything else you want to add? No, no, no. Would you still want to make the most of it? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting. But please, this time, stick to this procedural requirement.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u40	Yeah, there's nothing to hold on to. I propose that we hold a meeting on this topic of border insurance, at which the Prime Minister, who is competent, should come along and tell the President of the Government what and how he intends to manage this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u41	Dr Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13 December 2016, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Dr. Ange Logar, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Culture, Mr. Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you, President. My question at first sight is very simple, and I ask the Minister how he feels about protecting cultural archaeological heritage. I posed a similar question to your predecessors, at the time you were Secretary of State, in the case of the Bezigradian stadium, Plečnik's legacy, which is failing badly. Then I received a few bold words from the then minister, that she also had some creative ideas about change and that we were hoping for some positive spin-offs. The stadium is still failing, even more than before. Moreover, Mayor Jankovic proposed a two-year extension of the contract, which means that the file is closed even for two years and that the BSP will continue to cause this legacy to fall. But now there is a new archaeological or cultural bomb, a garage house under the market. You yourself have spoken about this project, and my question in this regard is: What is your attitude toward this project, especially since it touches one monumental building? In addition, we have that Pasarelo of Plečnik's arcades and archaeological excavations in situ. My question is: How many times have you met with the Ljubljana mayor on this subject, on whose initiative? What are your plans on this? Especially because this project will cost very large public finances. If we have learned something from Mayor Jankovic's projects, it is usually to leave a hole that is covered not only by Ljubljana's taxpayers but by taxpayers at the state level. In view of the fact that this government has concluded a special agreement with the Municipality of Ljubljana worth 300 million euros, I believe that the project, which weighs more than 30 million euros from public funds, is also part of the agreement between you and the Ljubljana mayor. I would therefore like you to explain in more detail: What are the taxpayers waiting for us in this regard, and what attitude will the Ministry of Culture have in this regard toward protecting archaeological and cultural heritage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u43	Minister of Culture, Mr Anton Peršak, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u44	Dear Member, first of all, it is possible to address this issue in general, because this issue has some context from which it can be concluded that in some way it should be prevented or prevented from any way, as foretold in the question, commercial content may occur either at locations or in some immediate vicinity of cultural heritage sites. Experience also teaches us positive practices that many times, taking into account the integrity of cultural heritage, commercial programmes can also benefit from cultural heritage and the chances that this cultural heritage will not only remain intact or intact, but also become some kind of economic factor and bring positive economic effects also through some commercial programmes within or near buildings or other other cultural heritage. With regard to the placement of objects at or at cultural heritage sites, it is possible and necessary to respect the law, the Cultural Heritage Protection Act and, consequently, the legislation on the regulation of the premises and the regulation of the facilities, which very precisely foresees how the effects on heritage should be assessed in cases where a spatial act is being prepared and which are envisaged either later in the planning of these buildings and in the protection of areas of heritage and monuments. It is, of course, necessary to obtain cultural protection conditions and, on their basis, cultural protection consent. The purpose of the assessment of the impact of each maintenance intervention and of the difficult new construction or deployment of spatial arrangements is to assess first how the intended intervention will affect the protected units of the facility or the territory of the heritage, since the impact or degree of impact depends on the characteristics of the operation and characteristics of the protected cultural heritage unit or its protection regime. The assessment should consider the reasons for the intervention and the reasons for maintaining the heritage in its existing form, whether the proposed intervention is of a commercial nature or not. The Ministry opposes any action to be commercial or non-commercial if these actions were to distort or destroy the protected components of cultural heritage. Why did I read what was ready? Because this also depends on specific answers regarding the market and also Plečnik’s stadium. Those who have to decide in both cases are first owners, because under the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, the first holder of responsibility for integrity, for preservation and also for the protection of cultural heritage is the owner. What he has to do and respect, however, is decided by the profession. It would probably be wrong for a minister, any political opinion, to judge, even if he owns, by any political colour, what he may or may not do. Let me say that there are very positive examples where, for example, there are certain dimensions in cases of archaeological heritage even allowing the possibility of presenting this archaeological heritage to take place in the new construction. There are many such cases in Europe, and I hope that something like this can happen. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u45	Dr. Ange Logar, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you. I regret that the minister used his answer to read the bureaucrat files and then left the main matter off when the microphone was gone. In short, you're meeting with the mayor, and as I understand from your direction, you're inclined to do this kind of construction. Looks like the mayor convinced you. But you are also in the service of the people and taxpayers. Look, it's a project that's going to cost 31 million public taxpayers money. Depending on the position, according to this cultural-security consensus that you are preparing in your cultural sphere, it will be between 200 and 500 parking spaces. Now convert this into a separate parking space, that is between 62 000 euros to one parking space and 103 000 euros to one parking spot. So it is more expensive than the apartment in the Municipality of Ljubljana. You say it's a good project. And he doesn't think it's a commercial program. There is no commercial partner in this project because it is not of interest because it is so costly that none of the rational people would go into this project. You're in letter 14. Ten. 2016 and 11. 11. 2016 said that it had not yet been decided whether to build a garage house under the market. This is an entry into the international organisation European Walled Towns. And it says there that the decision on the scope of the presentation and the possibility of whether a garage house will be built to follow the results of these research on the permissibility of construction and presentation in situ. So who will be the one to decide? You've obviously made up your mind. Since the mayor has already made his decision, I would like to ask again: How will you protect your archaeological heritage for normal tax money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u47	Minister of Culture, Mr Anton Peršak, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u48	I like to answer directly. I'm not seeing the mayor, if that's how you think the mayor calls me or I call him, you know, let's get together so we can talk about it. At a meeting he couldn't avoid if people were working in the public sphere, he asked me and I answered him. I'm not the one who's either fond or unloved. On whether an intervention is possible, admissible or not, and under what conditions it is permissible, I have made it clear that it can only be decided by an expert on the basis of law. And that's my point. The economy of construction or non-economics is not a matter of our judgment, nor is it a matter of our judgment of the cultural protection profession, but it is a matter of judging investors. In a letter like I said, exactly what I'm saying to you. I also know that the procedures for expert judgement, when we are talking about the market and the stadium, are not yet concluded, so I do not know whether the outcome will be one or the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u49	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you, for your word. The Health Committee is at its 22nd meeting of the Committee 7. Ten. On a proposal from the United Left and with the support of the Medical Chamber and the interested public, 2016 adopted clear conclusions requiring the Ministry of Health to amend and prepare sub-legislative acts that will finally enable the use, production and processing of cannabis for medical purposes in Slovenia. The Committee, by its second meeting of the Ministry of Health, ordered that hemp be moved from the first group of illicit drugs within 60 days and that appropriate legal grounds be put in place to allow medical hemp treatment as a medicinal product. With this, you have received clear instructions and a clear deadline for fulfilling these commitments. Let me remind you that the Committee unanimously adopted these commitments, with 11 votes in favour and with no objection. The Ministry of Health is 16. 11. The proposal for a Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs has been tabled in public debate. The public hearing will be concluded 16. 12. 2016, which makes it clear to us that 60 days will not be nearly respected. This would not bother us so much if at least your suggestions were to follow closely the conclusions made by the National Assembly. In your proposal for a regulation, hemp remains in the first group of illicit drugs and only stars are added to determine that hemp can be used in accordance with the Medicinal Products Act, and in the second group you only move standardised flower or fruity hemp plants from which no resin has been printed. In short, the proposed amendments to the Regulation are contrary to the decision of the National Assembly. Hemp must be fully moved from the first group of illicit drugs. But this is where the ignorance of the Ministry does not end, as you also write down that you do not intend to take into account the third decision adopted by the Health Committee at the same meeting, which instructs the Ministry to prepare appropriate legal grounds for the production and processing of cannabis for medical purposes in Slovenia. That's why I want to know: Will the Ministry of Health take into account the second decision of the 22nd emergency meeting of the Committee on Health and Hemp from the first group of illicit drugs? And I wonder: Will the Ministry of Health comply with the third decision of the 22nd meeting of the Health Committee and allow for the production and processing of cannabis for medical purposes and until when will it do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u51	Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you also for the question, Madam Members. The Ministry of Health is and will always respect and take into account the conclusions of the Committee on Health of this Parliament and must also respect existing existing existing, positive legislation and international conventions. It is true, as you have found in the public debate, and this Friday ends, that a government regulation allowing or complying with the decision of the 22nd urgent meeting of the Health Committee, so that it is possible in Slovenia to prescribe the hemp tips, which makes us a very rare EU country, such as the Netherlands, the Czech Republic and Italy, which allow this to happen. Only these three countries allow the patient to obtain hemp tips on the prescription. However, with regard to the actual transfer of cannabis from the first group of illicit drugs to the second group, I would like to state that only the transfer of hemp to the second group would not allow the cultivation of hemp for medical purposes, since Article 9 of the Law on the Production and Trafficking of illicit drugs explicitly provides that hemp can be grown only for food and industrial purposes. However, in order to be able to grow cannabis for medical purposes in Slovenia, it is necessary to amend this law or even more, and the law should define the comprehensive control of production and processing and sale of hemp and ensure that the competent national authorities that are part of this system are monitored. The Ministry of Health is not acting in any way, as in part I understand the question of the Member that it does not respect the Committee's conclusions, but has very substantial substantive and legislative reasons and frameworks. Since the matter is very complex, complex and has long-term implications, it is essential to make proposals for this legislation, where, in addition to initiatives to regulate, produce and process cannabis, international commitments or an international convention signed by Slovenia and supervised by the United Nations will also be taken into account. It is still prohibited to cultivate, process and sell hemp under this Convention and to treat hemp as illicit drugs. That is why we have corrected or set up a working group that will draw up a comprehensive proposal for a law on the basis of the Netherlands, Austria or the Czech Republic, in line with international commitments, in order to clearly define, for the first time, the objectives that we want to achieve by amending this legislation and, secondly, to ensure the constructive participation of all stakeholders and the public in the design of comprehensive and responsible solutions. Let me mention that we have already ordered the Medical Chamber as a professional institution, and it has concluded that the profession has prepared very clear guidelines for the prescription of hemp or medicines based on hemp. Unfortunately, we still do not have these guidelines and, therefore, we are scheduled to meet with representatives of the Medical Chamber in the coming week.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u53	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you. Look, the whole country has been waiting a long time for the entire mandate of the Ministry of Health to propose any law. You've had clear instructions here, so please order officials to carry it out. The international conventions only require regulation. However, the mode of regulation is completely in your hands. Of course, it is necessary to amend the Law on the production and trafficking of illicit drugs. But I want to know: Will the government propose changes to this law, or have you simply decided not to respect the decision of the National Assembly? It is also clear that the amendments to the CAPPD are not necessary at all, since the second paragraph of Article 7 of the CAPPD stipulates, I quote: "Prohibited drugs in Group 2 and 3 may be produced, placed on the market and held for medical, veterinary, scientific and scientific research purposes." So all you have to do, and this is what the Health Committee has already ordered you to do, is to move the plant from the first group to the second or, thank God, to the third group and start granting licences under the third paragraph of Article 7 of the CAPPD, which says: "The authorisation to carry out the activities referred to in paragraph 1 and 2 of this Article shall be issued by the Minister on the basis of an assessment of the annual needs." In short, you have everything here before you, and I would ask you to warn your officers. I also want to know: Why didn't you call the Narcotics Commission, and how would you react to corruption? We know that in the public sector, people who deal in drugs sell tests to detect these drugs in a private company. And no wonder it doesn't move anywhere, because corruption here is huge and patients are waiting. And that's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u55	Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u56	As I said in the introduction, the Ministry will respect the proposals or conclusions of the Health Committee. Therefore, the Regulation on the use of hemp for medical purposes is also a recipe, according to the green recipe, which means that people would have it free of charge or would be paid from compulsory health insurance. And this public debate ends this Friday. With regard to the law, however, it would be too easy to amend only certain articles and provisions of this law, because in this case Slovenia would be in breach of international obligations. It's not that simple and simple. It would be very easy to take if you only changed those articles that you mentioned because they would be contrary to international commitments. As I said, however, it is being prepared, and it also depends on external stakeholders, a comprehensive set or review of how it will grow, process and sell these hemps. As you know, it is necessary, as an example of Austria, very detailed control. This must involve the state institutions, the agency, like in Austria, we have from seed to seed traces under strict control of who is cultivating them. It's not so simple that everyone at home, if you want, will grow this hemp on their balcony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u57	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the last meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u58	For God's sake, Minister, no one said that everyone at home would grow on their own balcony. I mean, now, if you'll excuse me, you're making a fool of yourself. We were talking about clear legal provisions. You must set the terms and grant concessions. You had clear instructions and clear hands that you don't respect. That is why it is necessary to discuss here in this National Assembly whether the Ministry will respect the decisions of the National Assembly at all, or whether we are completely out of touch here and we are sitting and working. You know, we've been dating professionals and civil society for two years before we made these proposals. And now you're talking to us and selling pumpkins. The international conventions, I repeat, only require regulation. The mode of regulation is exclusively in your hands. But as long as you have a third level corrupt officials who won't, things won't change until then. And once again, I am asking you, or now I am asking for a debate on why neither the working group on drugs has met, why you have not included the profession, why you are ignoring the conclusions. I think it is because of such bad legislation that human rights are being violated, too, that the rights of patients are being violated. The patients are waiting. Full waiting rooms are patients who want cannabis medicines. There are plenty of doctors who want to prescribe cannabis medicines. The doctor's office wants to educate doctors. And you, just by respecting the decisions taken by the National Assembly, are said to move the plant from the first group, but remember, in the first group there is also an industrial hemp, which has 0.2 THC, which is perfect nonsense, because you can even smoke the field, but there will be no harm, in short, and a second conclusion to ensure under what rules the plant will grow and process. And we're not talking about "tugglers," we're talking about helping patients who will be organised by the country so that patients won't have to enter the black market. And please let the debate take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u59	Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13 December 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u60	President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers! Recently there has been a lot of talk about investments and foreign investments in general, but I am glad that these are particularly positive news. The interest of foreign investment investors in Slovenia is growing, in 2015 foreign direct investment in Slovenia was 11.5 billion euros, and in the first nine months of 2016 this figure increased by as much as 25% as in the same period last year. Personally, of course, I very much welcome the efforts in this direction that we have more and more of these investments, but I have some additional questions for the Minister: In the future, how could Slovenia be even more positioned as a country or as a location that is particularly interesting to investors? How many people work in the foreign investment department in Spirit? How many employees do they have in similar departments in other European Union countries? What do you think are the comparative advantages of Slovenia when it comes to the investor's decision to create new jobs right here in Slovenia? Are the ministries connecting and participating in the preparation of new legal bases relevant for attracting new investments? I thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u61	Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u62	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Your Honor, thank you for asking. In opening, let me point out that all potential investors are equally important, domestic and foreign. That is why we are also preparing the Law to promote investment in this area, which will take one step forward in that we are and will be more interesting. Undoubtedly, the promotion of foreign direct investment is one of the priority areas of our ministry. We are a country of opportunity when we look at the global index of opportunities for attracting foreign direct investment, we see that among 136 countries Slovenia is ranked 38th. In order to promote foreign investment, this government adopted a programme to promote internationalisation from 2015 to 2020 last May. This has given us guidance for further development, promoting foreign direct investment. We have identified a dynamic, effective approach to attracting foreign direct investment that is individualised by investors. An upgrade of the support environment is also envisaged to enable foreign investors to do their very best. Instead of the general promotion, Slovenia is focusing on a targeted promotion that is more effective, i.e. the promotion of foreign direct investment in specific groups, sectors, subsectors of the Slovenian economy. We want to present Slovenia to potential investors primarily as a research and development centre, a green economy centre and a logistics centre. How many people are employed? Spirit has a total of 50 employees, but there are only 4 in the department that directly works on foreign direct investment, although this is comparable because there are many common issues that the whole agency carries out. In the competition area, we do not have data for the departments, but for the entire agencies: there are 236 employees in the Czech Republic in Austria 30, Sweden 60, Denmark 30, Germany 350. Comparative advantages in Slovenia. We have some good foreign practices, even in the last period we have been successful after our assessment, because we have signed or are in the final phase in three successful stories. First of all, we see in all potential stakeholders that this is a high-quality labour force, which is technologically oriented, is an innovative spirit, with high-ethics, highly educated and experienced, with excellent knowledge of information technologies, foreign languages, is not among the cheapest, but is among the most efficient in terms of costs. Another comparative advantage of Slovenia is quality infrastructure, Slovenia has a modern transport system, three international airports, passenger and freight, Luka Koper, available equipped land in industrial zones and with transport connections. Thirdly, it has high-quality links with regional markets, Slovenia has an excellent geostrategic position in the centre of Europe, where it traditionally has good business contacts and knowledge of local languages, customs, culture and mentalities. And for the fourth time, quality of life, Slovenia has a high standard of living, many international schools, belongs to the first ten countries under personal security and has regulated health insurance. In addition to this, a high level of investor protection, transparent business legislation, efficiency and adaptability of production firms, low corporate income tax, high environmental emphasis, a strong focus on the development of new industries with higher value added and new innovative solutions can also be considered as an advantage. The ministries connect and cooperate with each other. It is our job to create, ensure all the conditions for investing in the Slovenian economy to start thinking about potential investors who are not doing this now, which means that we need to create an enabling business environment and, as we have already said, we need to take into account that each investor represents a potentially valuable opportunity for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u63	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to ask the Justice Minister a question. Goran Klemenčič, who is absent, I ask you whether you want a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u64	Yes, I'll ask for an oral answer. Parlameter, as you know, measures our words. If the ministers were to be measured, then Mr Klemenčič would certainly have the word "with fire and sword" and the word "onion" would be his vocabulary. And probably now he's walking around the world with a fire and a sword. Okay. My question is what he promised himself. In fact, he then presented at the presentation one 15 things he said he would enforce with fire and sword. On the contrary, an internal minister who has made no such promise cannot be asked these questions. One of the things he mentioned was that he did not agree that laws would be amended many times. It means that a law should be in force as long as it is in force, then a new law should be adopted, not the one A, B, C and ZNJ, as he said. So, then you would expect him to stick to it, which he promised at the hearing, but one review that I did myself, what the minister brought into this Parliament, and he shows you – you know what? – a few more than 10 novels in terms of ZNJ and one marriage. And a marriage. I'm asking him, and I want to ask him: What about what he promised himself? Or did he lie to himself at the hearing, and to the messengers? In this context, I will ask for an oral answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u65	Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister! As a result of globalisation and increasing mobility of the population, our institutions are also increasingly faced with the treatment of persons with foreign citizenship. My question today concerns in particular the procedures and competences and competences of the centres for social work to deal with the procedures followed by the procedure for the abduction of a child with foreign citizenship and the placement in a crisis centre for young people. I ask you, Your Honor Minister: Are the social work centres adequately aware of the powers and application of the law — Convention, Brussels IIA Regulation or the Law on Private International Law and Procedure? If, for example, a child with Ukrainian citizenship and temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia is in the process, how should CSD act if the legal deadline for the decision on the case expires and from the central authorities in the country does not indicate how to proceed? Of course, it is not useful for a child to extend his accommodation in a crisis centre for a long time. I want to know: How and what are the guidelines for how social work centres should act in such cases, and what is their basis for decision-making? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u67	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Affairs Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Ambassador Iva Dimic, thank you for asking. In accordance with Article 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, ratified and published international treaties shall apply directly. Furthermore, the European Union Regulations are legally binding acts and must be applied in full in all countries of the European Union. With regard to the knowledge of social work centres under which the acts lay down the jurisdiction and the law applicable — the Convention, the Brussels Regulation or the Law on the International Private Legal Procedure — in the procedures in which the children of foreign nationals who reside in the Republic of Slovenia are dealt with, we explain that, as is the case with the laws adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, public servants are considered to know the ratified and published international treaties and regulations of the European Union which must be applied in their work. Social work centres are public, independent, social welfare institutions. We further explain that the Convention on the Rights of the Child of 20 November 1989, in the first paragraph of Article 2, provides that States Parties shall respect and guarantee to any child who falls under their legal jurisdiction, recognised rights under this Convention without distinction of any kind, irrespective of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national, ethical or social origin, property, disability, birth or any other position of the child, his parents or legal guardian. The Law on Private International Law and Procedure in Article 15 provides that a foreign national or a stateless person who is in the Republic of Slovenia shall be subject to temporary protection measures under the law of the Republic of Slovenia and shall continue to do so until the competent State decides and does what is necessary. The Convention on Competences, Laws applicable, Recognition, Enforcement and Cooperation in respect of Parental Responsibility and Measures for the Protection of Children, whose objectives are to establish a State whose authorities are competent to monitor child protection and property measures, to determine which right these authorities should apply in the exercise of their competence, to lay down the law applicable and governing parental responsibility, to ensure that these protective measures are recognised and implemented in all States Parties, between the authorities of the States Parties, to establish the cooperation necessary to achieve the objectives of this Convention. Article 5 provides that the judicial or administrative authorities of the State Party in which the child's normal residence is situated shall be competent to take measures to protect the child and his property. The Convention provides in Article 11 that, in all cases of urgency, the authorities of the State Party in whose territory the child or property to which it belongs shall be competent to take all necessary protective measures. Measures taken on the basis of the previous sentence shall cease with respect to a child who is habitually resident in a State Party as soon as the authorities competent under 5 to 10. Members shall take the necessary measures in view of the situation. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has so far not paid much attention to this area, as the cases mentioned in the question have been relatively rare. We are aware that this burning problem is particularly in the light of migration, which we have recently witnessed in Slovenia. In view of this, consideration will have to be given to the inclusion of this issue in education or training aimed at social work centres in order to make it easier for them to respond to the challenges they are and represent them. So the ministry will have to prepare education, but it is still a matter of the community of social work centres leading assets, education and training, regional councils being set up, and such professional decisions are usually renegotiated within them, and it is also the basis of the reorganisation that we have very open questions about how to empower social centres to implement all these legal provisions properly. However, we would like to separate this from the Ministry of Labour, because we are still a second-degree body and we are thinking or is in a bill that will soon be in public debate. There is also a central unit that will mainly take care of the coordination of the functioning of social work centres and only the education of professional workers. So much will be devoted to this, but this is a new area, which will also be the subject of this coordination. However, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour is not independent, that there are professional workers and, in fact, centres for social work, and that it is taking over [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u69	Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your explanation. As I have understood, matters on this subject, or on this issue, will also be complemented by legislation on foreign citizens who have temporary residence, including minors. However, I could say that there may be individual cases, perhaps we can really list them on the fingers of one hand in Slovenia. In fact, I have no doubt that public servants would not know all the conventions and laws under which they decide. However, there may be a question here in ongoing cases, or perhaps a greater need, of course, to involve the internal authorities in the country, or the judiciary, in order to try to help minors, because, however, if the minors remain in these crisis centres for minors, they should remain somewhere for maybe three weeks or more, but that matters are being prolonged and that they are not being resolved, it is probably not good. So I welcome your intention to make things right on this side. But, of course, I wish I could get there as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u71	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you for that initiative. In any case, any child who arrives must receive the protection that belongs to him. Of course, even if he is alone, attention should be paid to this. So you will have to look at a concrete example, because it is probably also the basis for your question as a concrete example, to see exactly what happened and to do everything in our power to resolve things.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u73	Mr. Ivan Hršak, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Peter Gaspersich! We have received several complaints from our parliamentary group of tenants about the new method of dosing the costs of heating and using hot water brought by the amended rules of the way in which heat is shared and charged. Despite the Ministry's claim that this regulation will be better, it is still unfair and particularly unfriendly to the pockets of the owners of apartments which are forced to be remotely heated, even though this means a worse and more expensive option for them. In the world remote heating is the cheapest, but not in us. Let me remind you that since 2011, heating heat distributors must be in multi-housing buildings. The owners of the apartments had to buy the dealers, the price of one was between €40 and €50 per dealer at the time. Since the divisor has to be installed on every radiator, including the smallest one, the owners cost an average of 200 euros. It turns out that this system of reckoning has a bunch of irregularities. Some residents began to save on heating, so that less or even nothing warmed the apartment, leading to molding, increasing moisture in the apartments, and so forth. Despite the findings that the energy savings after the adoption of the first regulation were up to 30% lower, the regulation somehow changed. Unfortunately, nothing has changed or improved for users. What's more, the Ministry invented another nonsense, a new way of accounting for hot water consumption. The consumption in cubic litres, shown by the counter, is converted into kilowatt hours, adds several kilowatt hours to the top and thus the consumer pays 3.5 cubic litres of water, for example, converted into kilowatt hours. In September, the amended Regulation provides that, where there are too many deviations from average heat consumption, the cost-sharing calculation shall be carried out in full across the housing area for the entire building. Otherwise, according to the area according to the divisors. And right here is one of the main causes of anger, because the state first demanded the installation of the divisors, and now it will no longer take them into account. At the same time, a minimum consumer share of 40 % of the average consumption per square metre was introduced, which is another illogicality. It punishes those who save, rather than encouraging the rule to save heat, it is obvious that the times when the apartments will be heated and ventilated at the same time as they were in the past. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: Is it really so difficult to find some wise, just way to settle heat and hot water in multi-housing homes? How is this done abroad? I also want to know: Why are the tenants of multi-housing houses not allowed to warm up, for example, with infrared red panels, which are extremely efficient, the cheapest heating, and remove or prevent molding? The fact is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u75	Time. Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you also for the question raised, Mr Peršak. Initially, I would say that we are not making up some nonsense at the Ministry, but we are trying to regulate the system in such a way that, according to the experience found in practice, it will be following the best of its objectives, which are to save energy, but not at the expense of other roommates in some multi-housing buildings. Initially, I can also conclude that the person who gave you the information or asked you to ask this question has misinformed you on several points that you have raised in the question. Then I'll take my turn. It's about hot water first. The Regulation on the determination of these parts of the costs of heat or fuel for the preparation of warm water for individual parts of multi-housing buildings, the quantities of hot water consumed by the hydrometers for hot water shall not be converted into kilowatt hours as indicated in the question, but these quantities shall be said to be the measured quantity on the water meter to be used for the determination of consumer shares, as demonstrated consumption, on the basis of which the consumer share of each apartment is determined. Thus, that contribution to the payment of the distribution of the cost of hot water is proportionate to the quantity of hot water consumed. Furthermore, the claim raised in the question that the published Regulation in September provided that, in the event that there are too many deviations from the average heat consumption, the cost-sharing calculation is carried out in full across the area of dwellings for the entire building. This is not true, for it is precisely this revision of the rule of law that we introduced in September, which eliminates this principle, which in the previous version of the rule of law has caused quite a bit of confusion and problems. After a new division of costs, it is always accounted for individually by taking the readings into account in the divisors, but of course we limit the minimum possible percentage of reading and the maximum possible reading. The minimum reading is now 40% of average consumption and the maximum is 300%. By determining these shares, we are in some way preventing some residents from becoming over-soldiers or from being shut down from the systems in order to keep them warm at the expense of their neighbors. For example, apartments, which are underheated by owners, are also heated passively with heat passing through walls, floors, ceilings, from adjacent heated apartments. Therefore, the owners are motivated, following these changes, to keep their apartments at least minimally warm, to maintain some minimum necessary temperature and consequently do not cause costs to the owners of neighbouring apartments. How's it going abroad? In other countries of the European Union, there are different rules regarding the sharing of heat costs in multi-housing buildings. Of course, this is conditioned by their technical ownership conditions in buildings, climate conditions and so on, including traditions. I can give an example of the Czech Republic, where the final share of heat costs for heating is generally even more limited than we do. There these readings are already mixed up at 80% on average, say down and go up to 200% on average. So we go up to 40% of the average, we have readings up to 300%. With regard to heating with electrical systems, you mention infrared panels, but I must say that such direct basic heating of electricity has already been prohibited by the 1984 Regulation on the rational use of energy in heating and ventilation, so that, accordingly, such heating systems can only be used as auxiliary heating sources. However, heating should be used in a multi-housing building in accordance with the planned heating project of such a building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Hršak, you want a word to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you for your answer, Your Honor. Okay, you said a little differently than I asked the question. Let's just say that everything you've said is true. I know that heating with infrared panels is not allowed for complete heating, but for heating, I would say, certain spaces yes, besides the basic. And I think that if we were to partly warm up with the system that's in the house, we could heat, heat up, and thus prevent the formation of dance or moisture in the rooms. I would like to give the initiative to think about this in future, because, in fact, residents in these multi-housing houses have no choice but to warm up to remote heating, which we can see is not to be used in our country between more expensive or other cheaper systems. So the initiative is that it might be possible to think about it in this direction in the future, because after all, the goal is that people in multi-housing homes actually pay for what they actually spend. However, in order for this consumption to be in the direction that the state is, of course, trying to save, of course, on this heating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to complete the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I would only add that the regulation also provides for the possibility for the owners of apartments to agree on another way of accounting for heat. In short, in the event that a whole multi-housing building would want to, I don't know, warm up in some other, more economical way, residents can agree on that. If, of course, it is possible to achieve this also in accordance with those undertakings which supply them with heat supply, because we know that many around the cities also have mandatory connections to such remote heating systems, because if this connection is not contractually binding in this way, these systems could be even more unprofitable and, in this way, I will say, also jeopardise their existence and economic performance. Therefore, such decisions must, of course, take into account these broader conditions. As stated, the Regulation also allows users to agree on a different way of calculating heat in a particular multi-housing building. And I'd add what you said to the dance problem, the moisture in the apartments. Of course, as the temperature drops, this phenomenon increases, but other measures such as adequate ventilation of buildings, especially where energy saving has also replaced windows that are then tighter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will put the question to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, ministerial teams, colleagues and colleagues! Madam Minister Irena Majcen, I am asking about the adoption of building legislation. I am interested in a specific timeline for the adoption of this legislation. And I support that with the following facts. If we take the side of the Ministry of Economy, the spatial legislation website says the current situation: "The problem of obtaining environmental and construction permits is one of the biggest problems of the business environment," according to investors. If we look at how we passed or will adopt an intervention law, I don’t have a problem supporting it myself. The Act on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area of the municipality of Hoče-Slivnica, an urgent procedure, can be found that in this country spatial legislation and any other other legislation does not work. And if we remember the discussions on the home working committee, as well as the discussions at the hearing, when the distinguished minister presented her vision of working on this department, her somehow first priority in the spatial part of the legislation, or even in the adoption of legislation, was precisely the focus of these laws, which talk about the regulation of the space that talks about construction legislation and, of course, in this connection also about the Law on Authorised Architects and Engineers. And when we read the newspapers back, we see that in the spring there was a talk about legislation being prepared by the end of May to be in the process this year. Unfortunately, this is not happening. And when we look at the website of the Ministry of Environment and Space, on the legislative side, the procedure reads: "Renovation of spatial and construction legislation in autumn into a new public debate", which of course took place, and I quote, "it is still envisaged that new laws will be enforced in 2017". In the light of all these past experiences, when the Ministry has made a considerable announcement that this legislation will be adopted earlier this year, I ask the Minister specifically: When are these laws actually going to be in the procedure of the National Assembly? Because you also write on your website: "We expect a comprehensive debate in the National Assembly because of the complex subject matter, but it is still envisaged that laws will be enforced in the coming year." The year is running out, 2017 is approaching, so I ask for a very specific timeline, how we will address this complex issue in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u83	Minister, Mrs. Irena Majcen, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Mr Krivec, thank you for the question. In your own question, you have already stated that this legislation was at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year's public hearing. That public hearing lasted three months and allowed all interested parties to comment. These comments were very large, which means they had to be processed by the professional services. Finally – and this is not the first time, certainly not the last time – it was found that many comments were made in a diametric opposite opinion. However, there have been many comments that have made it possible to come up with a better and more understandable solution in their own right, and this set of three laws was also publicized in the autumn of this year. There were no big comments at the time, but some of them did. So now, in December, an inter-resor coordination procedure was launched. Law enforcement is new. This is mainly because new laws are involved and, of course, it is necessary for those who approve such legislation to be given sufficient time. Because it's not just a new marriage, but there are new solutions. In fact, we looked for these new solutions and wanted to write them down in a way that is necessary in this legislation, so in the spatial planning phase, things have been prepared and implemented in a way that is easier and less time-consuming for the congregations. The fact is, already two thirds of the congregations have adopted their own UN, one third of the congregations have not yet done so. What is one part of the congregations that will do so in the following year, and a number of congregations have not even reached a conclusion on the start of this procedure. This means that municipal spatial plans, as the most demanding part of spatial planning, remain. However, minor changes in municipal spatial plans will be easier to implement, and the time foreseen for these changes or for the answers of space regulators will be shorter. Significant changes are also envisaged for the issue of building permits. Recently or recently, much has been said about how to easily obtain building permits in neighbouring countries and not in Slovenia. Now this way, building permits will be given if space acts allow it to be easier to obtain it. However, if the spatial act does not provide for the construction site, of course the applicant will not be able to obtain the building permit. However, the decision-making time will be relatively shorter. It is also a partial solution already covered by the Environmental Protection Act, where we are talking about environmental permits and building permits. We had already met on this subject. In this legislation, these processes will be further developed. However, it is true that the new Environmental Protection Act provides for a final, third solution when the facilities in which the environmental permit will of course be decisive whether or not production will be produced, are in fact subject to the Environmental Protection Act. All of this takes us some time to coordinate with the Inter-Resort. We anticipate that in January we will adopt this legislation in the Government and then we will bring it to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel the culprit, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u86	Yes, thank you to the Minister for those answers. At first, she spoke more about the content, although in the end she said that in January the laws of inter-departmental coordination should be harmonised, so I understood, and should have come somehow into the procedure, which I strongly doubt. For when I read the website of the Ministry of Environment and Space, it said after this spring debate, before it was sent back in September, they said: “The Ministry has adopted more than a thousand pages of comments and proposals on the draft Law on the Regulation of Space, Construction Law and the Law on Authorised Architects and Engineers.” Then, I quote: “All three laws are changing and completing, but this is not the main reason for the new public debate that is supposed to be” or was now, “in September. As proposals for inter-sectoral coordination will go forward, it seemed fair for those who participated in the public debate to see what had been done." Now, if we read this, it means that something has already been done, it means that some interdisciplinary coordination has already been done after this first decomposition. In fact, too much time is spent on some coordination and negotiation, and on the other hand, I will go back to the Act on the Intervention or Emergency Procedure of the Municipality of Hoče Slivnica, where the Government itself writes: “Too long procedures for the acquisition of real estate and the necessary permits would deter more investors from investing in the Republic of Slovenia, reduce investments and further negatively affect public finances and the movement of unemployment” and so on. Thus, you yourself write in the papers that certain legislation causes income losses, reduce unemployment or prevents investment, and, on the other hand, from public disclosure, repeats some coordination into public disclosure, but does not come with solutions. So that your answers do not please me, but I will be following with attention in January what we will get to Parliament at the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u87	Madam Minister, you have the floor for an additional answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you. In inter-sectoral coordination, the three laws drawn up from spring to autumn, when this last version was prepared, were not, as you yourself said, many comments were made in the first edition and solutions were being prepared only in order to meet these comments or to find better solutions. We joined the Inter-Resort Coordination in December. The laws themselves have, I think, over 500 articles, which means it takes legal experts some time to prepare or bring them through these procedures. I agree that this work at our Ministry is being monitored. I don't have anything to add to this, but I'm not pretending to be happy with these solutions. In a number of parts, this legislation also reminds me of the experience of the chimney law when we could not at all prepare solutions that were acceptable. We are also here in these three laws looking for a middle way to satisfy citizens and investors in particular. As I said, in spring this legislation will also be ready for the National Assembly, and then you will tell Members and Members what you think about this legislation. However, I hope you have no difficulty in saying that the changes are great, and this debate, which has been held in the professional public, has also been necessary. However, because of these major changes, it is envisaged that legislation, i.e. all three laws, would enter into force either at the end of 2017 or at the beginning of 2018, is in fact also a prepared dossier for obtaining building permits under existing legislation and, of course, the time from the adoption of this new legislation to the processing of these acts after the previous legislation is sufficient. Half a year is more than long enough for the law to enter into force at the beginning of 2018 or all three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, would you like a word? No, no, no. We're moving on. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that! Dear Minister, Mr. Peter Gaspersich! Now, this time, my question is more of a financial nature, not so much a profession. Of course, finance is an essential segment in a ministry as important as the Ministry of Infrastructure. If I only look at the budget for the next two years, for 2017 and 2018, this view is, I would say, slightly better than in the last two years, in short, the financial situation is improving slightly, but I see real fear. Since the budget for 2017 and 2018 has not yet been completely closed due to the so-called so-called budget, I would say, harmonisation with the health sector and, of course, also due to incomplete or inconsistent alignment with the other public sector. In short, budget scissors with the very deficit are spreading. And I would say, the practice of where to take it – of course in the infrastructure area, because if I put it medically, let it hurt less, let it hurt no one directly, and it is actually the easiest thing to take on infrastructure. If I go specifically, we know that even for Dars, who has a large financial liability, Darsa’s entire debt is 2.3 billion and with the maturity of liabilities in the coming year slightly less than 250 million, that means for Dars as a society a great financial burden. Although we know that Dars is somehow successfully saving and extending all of his credits, there are also new investment investments. That's why I'm asking: How's Dars getting ready for this? Is the law of guarantee already in preparation to cover this manna which Dars will certainly have in the coming year in view of these falling financial obligations in 2017?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u91	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you also for the question put to Ambassador Ljub Žnidar. In opening, let me say that finance is also part of the profession that we have to deal with at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Last but not least, we have been dealing mainly with finance for the second track for two years. The Ministry of Infrastructure, of course, is also closely monitoring developments in the repayment of Dars’ liabilities for loans already hired. We know that any inability to make such repayment could then be very harmful to the financial indicators of the Republic of Slovenia. The real financial capabilities of Dars are therefore also being adapted to the annual activities of Dars, which are confirmed by the Ministry under the annual plans for the implementation of the concession and the annual contract for the execution of the contract under Article 4 of the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. It is also true that Dars has to pay EUR 203 million in principals in 2017 and an estimated EUR 45 million in interest liabilities, totalling 250 million. Dars plans to pay these obligations in full from regular operations, with a share of the principal of € 103 million planning to pay from its own resources and the remaining funds from the process of refinancing of the loans recently adopted by the law of guarantee for the implementation of the refinancing of these old debts. In short, the law that makes this possible has already been adopted. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recently, in fact last week, adopted a package of rules on the development of a pricing policy for the tolling of freight vehicles. In this regard, it issued the Tolls and Tolls Regulation, then the Regulation on the establishment of toll adjustment factors for freight vehicles, further adopted a Decision on the fixing of toll height for freight vehicles and agreed on a general tolling and toll pricing act for the use of tolls. It is therefore a package of interlinked legal acts whose issuance is necessary as a result of changes in this pricing policy of toll vehicles. The fact is that the volume of tolls for freight vehicles has not changed since 2013 and this price policy has therefore to be adjusted to the changes in the structure of the rolling stock of freight vehicles. In fact, there were more and more eco-friendly vehicles, and it happened that, despite increased freight traffic on motorways, toll revenues for freight vehicles did not follow. The proposed measures now increase the stability and level of revenue, and then provide a financially sustainable business model. In changing this price policy, we have taken into account the existing structure of freight vehicles as well as the ecological aspect, so that vehicles that are more polluting the environment also pay higher tolls. Dars estimates that in 2017, by raising this basic price to a kilometer and reducing the existing adjustment factors for the euro emission classes, taking into account vehicle outflows to cleaner euro emission classes, it will realise up to €44 million of additional toll revenue for freight vehicles. In 2018, the introduction of the so-called electronic tolling of freight vehicles in free circulation will also contribute significantly to the provision of adequate revenue.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u93	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u94	Dear Minister, thank you for your answers. That's what the state of Dars has under the roof. Now I'd like to ask, given the toll price rises for trucks, the circus will bring 44 million in the next year. Will electronic tolling already begin in 2017 in the performance of its function? I don't know what time it is to complete electronic tolling for trucks. If I'm well aware, it should be in the late fall of the second year. Some additional revenue is also expected from this address. So I want to know: Are these revenues already in this 44 million or will this be an additional part of the revenue from this address?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u95	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much. This estimate of these additional EUR 44 million is therefore based on the existing current toll collection system and is calculated solely on the basis of this price increase to be applied from 1. 1. 2017. Electronic tolling of freight vehicles in free circulation – Dars, of course, is now implementing this project and it is therefore envisaged that all the necessary infrastructure will be installed on the motorway network in 2017. According to the information I have from Dars, this system should then be used with 1. 1. 2018 and from the introduction of this toll on the entire network, I think, if I recall correctly, that the estimates are that this will bring additional, therefore, from the closure of the toll system, an additional 8 to 10 % of the higher inflows from tolling itself. However, I must also say that it is anticipated that, at the same time as electronic tolling is being introduced, we will also have to introduce a methodology for tolling freight vehicles, which we must adopt under the European so-called Eurovignette Directive. This methodology is also prepared by Dars and is in the process of coordination with the European Commission, so that further adjustments can be expected on the basis of the adoption of this methodology in the price policy itself, i.e. tolls per mile. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic will ask the question of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u98	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, colleague, colleague! This year and a half, which I took up in the National Assembly, I, both on the Committee on Education and also on the Committee on Culture, have, of course, debated several times on the possibilities for the full use of Slovenian language and, as a result, the resulting functional literacy of students. When we talk about literacy, of course, I speak generally about the ability of some quality definition to different content, including life, which means, of course, that the school space is not only a place to upload some photographic knowledge, but mainly as a place where a thought develops and, consequently, the personality of an individual. So this criticism of mine was mainly based on the preliminary results of the 2013 PISA. As has been evident from the history of both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture, certain measures have been put in place to actually improve literacy. According to the 2016 results, of course, it seems at first glance that these measures were appropriate. In fact, students have made a marked improvement in their performance, which means that they have improved their results in both science and mathematics and, of course, in the field of literacy. What is particularly important at this point in my opinion is the fact that the link between the child's school success and the well-being of his family has decreased. In practice, this meant, of course, that worse than the social situation of the child, its visibility was worse, which is, of course, problematic from an enlightened school model that we tend in Slovenia. I stress this because this difference between our students is still greater than in most other countries, but, as it is said, this difference is shrinking faster than elsewhere. Viewed vertically, data shows that our school system is based on good and quality, of course, if that were not the case, then students would not be able to achieve certain intermediate achievements. I also ask the Ministry in this respect: What measures will continue to focus on the quality of education and the achievement of higher educational goals, perhaps in the light of the social picture of the individual student? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u99	Dear Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Member, the entire collection! Thus, with this year's results, the survey took place in 2015, as far as PISA and, of course, TIMSS are concerned, we can be very pleased. Simply because we are even in three writings, we read both mathematical and natural over the OECD average. In particular, I stress reading literacy, which was very high in 2006, but according to the current results, we have re-enacted this above average in 2006 and even slightly higher. In fact, there has been a significant decline in the interim period, and measures taken to improve particularly reading literacy have been well received and are still showing results today. This brings the greatest thanks to the entire school field, teachers, teachers, principals, principals, most of all students, students who have been able not only to take these measures, but also to show their knowledge in the right way. What's the next step? In particular, in terms of reading literacy, which is addressed not only through knowledge, understanding of the Slovenian language, but also broader, including so-called functional skills, when we are in life, it is important to address complementary measures within the national literacy strategy, which is ahead of completion. In fact, this is a reconstruction part that has been composed particularly intensively over the past period because we would like to see this strategy not only adopted at ministerial level but at government level. Why? So that it can span not only the school space but also, of course, the wider space. Come in. We continue with European projects, so-called innovative learning environments, where the competent system of each individual is built and established, both by teachers on the one hand and by students on the other, in a way that can be easier, faster and more descriptive at all levels facing challenges in life. This project is dedicated to a great deal of funding in the new current financial perspective, and the largest areas are included precisely so that we can maintain even better results at all levels of literacy. And, of course, targeted research projects, with which we will continue, especially for the development of reading and writing capabilities. Not only will we not only look at and be pleased with the current mirror, but we also need to look at the thinking of the new learning methods, the changed approaches, but we can say even more about the innovative, creative way of encouraging the thinking of individuals, individuals in the school space, in order to be able to implement such curricula more effectively, to keep them up-to-date, and to achieve not only comparability, but also to increase competences, knowledge and, of course, skills. Why is this so much more important? For both TIMSS and PISA, which have actually shown very good results, TIMSS in particular in graduate physics and mathematics, however, showed, of course, that children, students do not always enjoy what they learn, so these measures should also be addressed. It is in this area that we will prepare not only research work and also complement existing analysis, but, above all, we will focus on this conceptual reflection on approaches, learning methods, preparation, ways of understanding, even more modern, technologically oriented societies, but at the same time, in creating a balance – we call that basic traditional approach with modern approaches – and in this way, of course, we will start and try to encourage in a different way that children, students, students, not only feel well at school, that they believe what they are learning, but also that they are enjoying themselves more and more. It's true, our system is good, it's quality. We are still part of the collection of those 25 to 30 countries that constantly invite us to be among the most qualitative, both according to OECD analysts and other international institutions, in order to share good practices. However, there is always room for improvement, to look forward, so these are our analytical mirrors, which must be a basis for a stronger quality and, above all, the conviction that we know and can trust in our own school system.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Moving on, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Finance of Mags a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister! The new Ljubljana Bank is state-owned. It's nothing new. The fact is that the country is therefore also responsible for the bank’s operations as a good host. In the past, we have repeatedly discussed the need to sell the bank. Our commitment somehow reaches there until 2017, so that these things can also be done or done. However, it is very important in what state, what condition we will leave this bank in. In the past, there have been quite a few speeches on the handling of NLB advisory contracts. Let me remind you of Mr Kos's contract, which in a few months or a difficult period earned 765 000 euros. In short, it's a lot of money. Then, of course, the effects are questionable. In addition, let me stress what is very important that taxpayers are in this bank, each individual has invested about EUR 3,000 to recapitalise it. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: Are you also familiar with other advisory contracts, which are quite a few in 2015 alone, some of them also point to suspicious integration, if I can say a slightly more firm word, but what can we say that they already point to the suspicion of corruption? The fact is that the answer is that, of course, the Ministry of Finance is not responsible for this, it is not true, for each of us is responsible if matters, how tax money is spent are just a little strange or unusual to ask and get an explanation. I don't have enough time right now, but I'm only going to point out one case. This is about Randerspace, which was set up by Accession; you know very well that Matija Sevšek has also been employed in this company a long time ago. Well, this company received around €200,000 as an advisory firm in 2015. Also, the company set up by a former employee of Accession also received about 200 000 euros. Thus, EUR 400,000 for the companies with which he had previously worked or worked with were newly established, but they were co-workers, Mr Matija Sevšek. I'm asking you here. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u103	Dear Minister, mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the question raised, let me start by explaining that in Slovenia, under the law adopted by the National Assembly, we have set up a system of asset management or capital investments owned by the State by stopping or reshaping the previous company in the Slovenian State Holding and granting it a mandate to manage the country's capital investments. In doing so, we wrote to him that he must be independent and independent in the management of these tasks and, as a key objective, we stated in the draft law that the management of state property on the one hand must be professionalised and, on the other hand, separated from the daily political issues. Accordingly, we must also assess the competence or responsibility of the Ministry of Finance to take individual business decisions. The new Ljubljanska Banka is organised as an economic company, as a share company, has established management bodies and supervisory authorities and must also carry out supervisory activities in relation to the individual advisory contracts mentioned. The Ministry of Finance has no direct competence to assess or monitor individual advisory contracts or any other contracts concluded by Nova Ljubljanska Banka. With regard to the second part of the question, which concerns whether we will make sure that the bank, as we would like to say, will be in good condition when the sale process is to be completed, but I can conclude that the key guidelines that the bank must pursue in its operations at this point in time are the commitments that the State has had to make in December 2013 for it to be able to grant State aid to the bank. The Bank fulfils this commitment, some have fulfilled even prematurely and in every respect strengthens the quality of its business, and in this context the Ministry of Finance also performs its general supervisory functions and ensures that the commitments are fulfilled on the one hand and, on the other hand, that the bank can actually be sold with the highest possible proceeds through the fulfilment of these commitments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u105	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor to request an answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again, look, I just don't take answers in terms of, we have supervisory authorities. Clearly, these supervisory authorities are not functioning. If I have reached data and things and have simply connected them, then these supervisory authorities should have reacted at some point because this is data from 2015. Earlier, the President of the Government had explained how they would always act as a good master, and if there were any suspicions, they would act. He even said he'd just send the police, even if it wasn't in his jurisdiction. I'm asking you what's gonna happen. Besides these numbers, you can't look down and say, "We're not competent," and that's the end of the word. See, Ernst&Young in 2015 about €650,000 contract, then the Center for Business Excellence of the Faculty of Economics, here just after a few days payout, in 2015 total 65,000 euros. Then, I don't know, language learning on the annual contract of 128 thousand euros. Various legal societies earn around €300,000. See, these are numbers, and let me explain to taxpayers whether this actually means that the New Ljubljana Bank and the State are acquiring. Let me add something else. In the last two years, 550 workers have been fired from the New Ljubljana Bank. These were lower-ranking workers, which we have not heard of insignificances. On the other hand, if the problem is that it is too wide and too rich, they have hired a new 170 workers in very high positions with very good salaries. Minister, I'm asking you to complete your answer and tell me how you're going to react.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u107	Dear Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u108	Once again, we will react in accordance with the powers I have under law. The Ministry by law has no right to intervene or inquire about individual specific legal transactions that have been concluded in the bank. Competence shall be exercised by the relevant supervisory authorities. These will probably also be informed accordingly about the information you have provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u109	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, you have a procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u110	Yes, it is sad that we have to ask Members of Parliament questions to respond to those who serve the fabulous meetings. Well, if they're on the basis of my question, I'll be so much more happy. But I hope they return their meetings to the budget. Look, one more time. 550 workers were somehow thrown onto the road, whatever. On the other hand, Nova Ljubljanska banka spends almost €80,000 on sports games only per year. 80,000 euros, Your Honor. We're talking about a bank owned by the state. Therefore, I do not think it is acceptable that we should wait for some authorities, which we obviously know will not have this purpose, to talk about the 2015 data, and now it is the end of 2016 and no one has reacted so far. And one more thing. It is not true what the law allows or allows you to do, but it certainly does not allow you to allow the bank to be clearly independent of the risk of corruption. As I said, we have an employee from the former Accession and in 2015 alone for 500 000 euro contracts. And tell me what the need is for us to conclude for Accession or for the company Accession and the former employees of the contract for 500 000 euros. The bank, if successful, probably does not need such forms in promotion. President, I ask that a public debate be held on this. The fact is that everything points to new exhaustions in different forms. I also don't know what the Centre for Business Excellence has, which has constant contracts, which is the same height, what happens, and then the employees from the New Ljubljana Bank go there to teach, and they probably earn it there. Look, things are so much that I, and I'm a layman in this area, I see them. And that the supervisory authorities do not see them, but that they have not yet acted, is unquestionably sad mainly because they are playing with taxpayers’ money. Like I said, 3,000 euros each taxpayer. We have invested 2.4 billion euros in this bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u111	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13 December, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you, Vice President! Dear Minister! Two observations first. In September 2014, SDH sold Alenka Bratušek to Ljubljana Airport, then to the German state company Fraport. The official reason for this was the collapse of traffic that occurred during the crisis. The second thing is that in March this year the Taists SDH also sold Adrio Airways and this time for the reason that the unknown German company 4K Invest saved Adrio from bankruptcy. That's kind of two figures. We are now practically the third year of the crisis, and yet in the last 10 months, airport traffic has dropped by 4.5% and Adrie Airways traffic by almost 13%. The situation is apparently so acute that your ministry is preparing a strategy with measures in the event of the bankruptcy of Adria Airways, as you reported in your response to the newspaper Delo on 19 November. Perhaps there is no need to overemphasize what can happen in the event of the bankruptcy of such a company. Now, in the short term, it is likely that all years of what would happen in the long run will fall away and that the question is, or it is difficult to speculate. However, we could certainly face the fallout of certain links with strategically important cities. The case is, for example, the Hungarian national carrier Malev, who went bankrupt in 2012 and still has problems with virtually not having links to the key destinations. Ljubljana, as we can see now, is probably not far from being plastically portrayed as sports enthusiasts, skier Ilka Štuhec did not return to the airport in Ljubljana, but to Zagreb. I have two very specific and direct questions for you. The first is: When will this strategy of action be prepared and what are the concrete contents, so what are the measures envisaged in the event of the bankruptcy of Adrie Airways? And second. SDH is obliged to ensure that jobs are maintained when privatising. That's why I want to know: Are there also commitments in the Treaty to preserve jobs and those links that are of strategic importance to Slovenia at this time?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u113	Mr. Minister, Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, for asking the question. Your observations were correct. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, we also closely monitor data on the number of passengers, both at Jožet Pučnik Ljubljana Airport and at Adria Airways Airport. It should be said that if Adria Airways’ bankruptcy occurred, it was necessary to ensure the mobility of the population in the aviation field, which was certainly in the public interest, not only to ensure the transport of tourist passengers, but also to provide daily business flights and connections. The potential bankruptcy of an undertaking means the immediate withdrawal of the operating licence of an air carrier and thus the cessation of all its air traffic. In such a case, the following activities would follow. In view of the fact that Adria Airways does most of the flights within the European Union and that there is no restriction on regular air links within the European Union, the European Common Rules Regulation on Community air services allows legal transport to all air carriers within the Union without restrictions. These flights could therefore be replaced by other airlines within the EU in a relatively short time. A relatively short period of time does not mean that any of the European Union’s air carriers could replace all flights by companies the next day. According to market logic, which you have already mentioned, carriers want to carry out transport only on those lines that are of interest to the market, while the remaining years would probably remain uncovered for a certain period. It is also possible that part of the most interesting lines, in particular those which represent links to nodes at other airports, would be replaced by carriers of the Star Alliance, especially those currently filling their nodes with the Adrie Airways. However, it is difficult to estimate the extent and time during which carriers of Star Alliance could take over Adrie Airways' traffic at Ljubljana Airport. This also depends on their available capacity over a specific period. As regards non-marketable flights, however, they are important due to the needs of the Slovenian economy, and the Republic of Slovenia could start with the introduction of the compulsory public service procedure on certain economically justified links, in accordance with the rules of the earlier European Regulation. All European air carriers should then be invited to carry out transport operations on a case-by-case basis, and the invitation to tender should therefore be drawn up and published in the Official Journal of the European Union and, above all, financial resources should be provided within the budget. However, with regard to the operation of regular air transport outside the EU, it should be pointed out that these services can only be carried out on the basis of bilateral air transport agreements. This means that air transport on a given route can only be carried out by carriers from States Parties to an agreement. This means, for example, that flights to Moscow could only be replaced by an air carrier from the Russian Federation. The Ministry is, in fact, constantly seeking to conclude such bilateral agreements with third countries. Thus we have signed several agreements already this year. In addition, in accordance with the National Transport Development Programme, the Ministry is also working to ensure competitive conditions for the operation of air carriers in the Republic of Slovenia. Accordingly, we have already adopted certain adjustments this year, both in terms of tariffs charged to carriers, in particular with regard to navigation services, where we have ensured in the budget that part of these costs, which occur at the airports of Portorož and Maribor, are now provided from the budget and not from the budget. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u115	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to request an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you. My colleague Trček warned me that Mrs Šuhec could also come to Maribor. But well, we're talking about Adria Airways and the airport in Ljubljana. You mentioned a list of measures, but now, in fact, they are quite left to how the market will be known and how airlines will enter if they want to enter. This is not actually a government strategy or what the state could do to ensure links. Compulsory public service too – I now have one question. Given that we have just adopted or approved in the National Assembly a strategy for the development of transport, in which there is no provision for such activities, especially for air transport, the question is now how, in the event of the actual bankruptcy of Adria, can in fact do anything at this point as to leave this matter to the market. That's why I was just mentioning the case of Hungary. There, since 2012, the market has not been overly active or, as may be said, it has not wanted to restore these links and, therefore, the situation with connections in Hungary is now poor. And there's a chance that's gonna happen to us. Once again, I repeat another question you have not answered about SDH. Are there any commitments in the contract, specifically regarding the sale of Adria Airways, to the preservation of jobs as well as links, which are somehow linked?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u117	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Given the experience we can all see in the case of the Hungarian carrier, the consequences would certainly be determined in the event of the bankruptcy of Adria Airways. Certainly, all the connections currently under way could not be replaced in some relatively short time. However, I can say that the Civil Aviation Agency is obliged to monitor Airways' situation and business at all times. According to the assurances and information we have by the Agency, which are therefore received and verified by the air carrier, for once their operations are not compromised by the information we receive. With regard to this second question of yours, which concerns only the content of the contract, I regret to say that the Ministry did not cooperate at the time and was not aware of the content of the contract. It is likely that this should be addressed either to the company itself or to SDH because it is likely that this information can be communicated to you if it is not related to any business secrets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u119	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor for a procedural request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you. Nevertheless, there is this doubt, given that the Ministry is preparing this strategy or a list of measures in the event of bankruptcy, so there is some doubt that anything will be broken. And the fact is, our transport companies have been falling like dominoes lately. What happens to us quickly is that we can stay in fact a country that is cut off from the main traffic flows. As I said earlier, September 2014 was privatised to the airport, November 2015 Adria Airways Technika and March this year Adria Airways. When all these companies privatized, governments and buyers promised investment and development, and it happened the other way around. It's very specific. Ljubljana airport already had up to 17 million European funding for the second terminal. Privatization got rid of these funds. In spite of the high promises, Fraport did not invest a single cent in the airport in particular in freight transport. And this is the situation that we are experiencing again and again in every company that is being sold. This clearly shows that we are practically destroying infrastructure in this country. Of course, it is even worse with Adria Airways, even though 3.5 million euros were recapitalised this year on at least 50 million basis in 2011. On the one hand, we have a drastic drop in traffic, and the German owners have sold the last aircraft, and we don't really know who the real owner is and what kind of contract SDH signed. In fact, the last two governments have put air traffic on their knees in this country. I think there are now enough reasons to have a general debate on this subject in the National Assembly, because what is happening to air traffic is actually also happening to shipping and freight. SDH sold the airport of Ljubljana to the German state company Fraport. The Administration of Slovenian Railways now sells Slovenian Railways – Freight Transport to Austrian State Railways and the Government negotiates with Hungary in one way or another to transfer the shares of Luka Koper to 2TKK and, of course, sell 2TKK to Hungary. In the 1960s, our people built the foundations of air, rail and other transport. And the current political class actually sells the remainder of these strategic companies to foreign countries and we return in a traffic sense to the time of the Drava Banovina. I think that this, once again, is sufficient reason for us to have a general discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u121	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13 December, in the framework of the votes. Mr Ivan Prelog will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, Mr. Restoring! Japan's Yaskawa will, according to the latest information, establish the Yaskawa Centre for Europe in Slovenia, which will meet about 80% of Europe's robot needs. The Slovenian government managed to meet the conditions of the Japanese company despite severe competition, thus providing investment for the establishment of a centre to employ 200 Slovenian engineers. The government sent a proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area in the Hoče - Slivnica Region to the National Assembly. What does this strategic investment mean for the regional development of Maribor with the environment facing a high level of unemployment? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u123	Your honor, please. Your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u124	Mr President, Members and Members, honourable Members, thank you for the question. The proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica is of paramount importance for the Republic of Slovenia and for the regional development of the city of Maribor and the surroundings. The Podrav region, once a strong industrial region, has been ranked at the bottom of the scales for several years, measuring the development of the regions accompanied by Umar in its development reports. This is one of the worst or worst-developed regions in Slovenia. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the neglect of human capital in the form of unemployment has long-term economic and social consequences. According to the assessment of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, Slovenian revenue for young people is unemployed due to a loss of income and taxes equivalent to 1.31 % of the gross social product. This means almost EUR 524 million for Slovenia, without regard for the older unemployed. In view of the above, action is urgently needed. The best remedy for these serious social problems is creating new jobs. This is why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has introduced the Act on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area of the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. With the proposal for a law, we want to enable a new greenfield investment with more jobs. The development area in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, which will be established by means of a proposal for a law, is the area of production zone in the municipality of Hoče – Slivnica, where strategic investment is carried out. This investment pursues development, social, spatial, logistical, transport and other objectives. The provision of conditions for strategic investment in the development area is in the public interest. We are talking about a strategic investment which, by law, will have to create at least a thousand jobs in a problem area with high unemployment. In particular, in this case, we are talking to the investor about 2 000 500 to 3 000 jobs, but in the law we are talking about a number, its size of at least 100 million euros, and in a particular case almost 500 million will have a number of positive effects on other sectors and economic operators. The investment will therefore bring new economic activity into the Maribor area, which will also allow work in other areas, such as logistics, procurement. In order to promote economic growth, positive effects will also be seen in the social, pension and state budget. As a result, all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will benefit from these positive effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, I have a question for you regarding your instruction given somewhere in October 2015: you sent a letter to the hospitals informing them or ordering them to obtain the full amount of medicines from plasma via the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine. These medicinal products are obtained directly from Slovenian plasma in the context of the public service granted, i.e. without a call for tender. This practice or your instructions were opposed by UKC Maribor and then a public invitation to tender for the procurement of medicinal products from plasma. Later, in February 2016, you sent UKC Maribor to the management to request them to obtain medicines from plasma directly from the Slovenian Institute of Transfusion Medicine, where this behaviour of UKC Maribor is not in accordance with the regulations governing the supply of medicinal products from Slovenian plasma. Therefore, you call on them to comply with your instructions with their activities in the field of plasma medicinal products. In reviewing the laws to which you refer, this is the Drug Act, the Public Procurement Act, the Blood Supply Act, there is no evidence that the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia has exclusive transfusion medicine in this area. He has the advantage, not the exclusive. The UKC Maribor has also obtained several or two legal opinions in which it also takes the view that the Law on Medicinal Products, the Blood Supply Act and the Public Procurement Act do not have exclusive sales of medicinal products from Slovenian plasma. Therefore, it cannot be understood from the Blood Supply Act that the law confers a special or exclusive right on the institution to place blood products on the market and the same interpretation has been given by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia in the Post-Revision Report of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia on Transfusion Medicine of 10. 1. 2008 when it stated that the sale of blood products is the market activity of the Slovenian Institute of Transfusion Medicine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a question: On what legal basis did you instruct hospitals to supply medicinal products from the Slovenian plasma to the Slovenian Institute of Transfusion Medicine directly within the public service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u127	Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u128	Well welcomed, Mr Vice-President, honourable Member and other Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I would like to explain that the Ministry of Health issued the above-mentioned letter or instruction you mention regarding the procurement of medicinal products from Slovenian plasma in the course of the implementation of the joint procurement for the supply of medicinal products in 2015, which was carried out by the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Health on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 43000/800 2015/5 of 5 March 2015. By letter, we wanted to inform the public health authorities that the general public procurement for the supply of medicinal products will not include medicinal products from Slovenian plasma, since according to the regulations of the public health institution of medicinal products from Slovenian plasma, the Institute of Transfusion Medicine of the Republic of Slovenia supplies the public service. The legal basis for such behaviour of the Ministry of Health is laid down in the Medicinal Products Act, Article 71(6), which provides for the prioritisation of medicinal products from Slovenian plasma. This principle establishes the advantage rather than the exclusive supply of industrially manufactured Slovenian plasma medicinal products, namely fresh frozen plasma for processing collected in the Republic of Slovenia. According to the priority principle, supplies of medicinal products from the European Union from foreign plasma are provided if medicinal products from Slovenian plasma do not cover all the needs of these medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, in order to provide blood and blood products in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has established the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine. In June 2016, the Ministry of Health also issued a directive on the supply of medicinal products from the Slovenian plasma, where the public health service, in order to ensure equal access to medicinal products from the Slovenian plasma, prescribed a way of facilitating the implementation of the priority principle of supply of medicinal products from the Slovenian plasma. In accordance with these guidelines, the priority principle in practice is implemented in a way that hospitals receive from the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine of a medicinal product from plasma collected in the Republic of Slovenia in quantities which it can provide at the annual level. With the available quantities of albumin and plasma medicinal products collected in the Republic of Slovenia, only 60% of the covered needs for these medicinal products in Slovenia are reached on an annual basis. The difference to the coverage of all drug needs with these products, which cannot be provided from plasma collected in the Republic of Slovenia, is obtained in time by the public procurement rules. Finally, I would like to add that Slovenia, in Case C 296/15 Medisanus before the Court of Justice of the European Union, takes the view that, due to the specificity of the field of supply of medicines and blood as goods originating from the human body, a derogation from other public procurement rules is justified. According to the Republic of Slovenia, the priority of the supply of plasma products collected in the Republic of Slovenia, as provided for in Article 71(6) of the Medicinal Products Act, is to be understood in the light of Article 168(7) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which provides that Member States carry out and distribute the allocated resources themselves, which, by their nature, are also collected in the Republic of Slovenia. It is of the opinion that market treatment of raw material, which is fully obtained free of charge affecting the human body, would have negative consequences and would have an impact on the motivation of blood producers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u129	Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u130	Dear Minister! If the provisions of Article 71(6) of the Medicinal Products Act provide that the Office for Transfusion Medicine has a privileged position in the sale of blood products or that contracting authorities must purchase blood products from this institution, these provisions are contrary to European Union legislation. The rules of the European Union on the free movement of medicinal products and not the obligations laid down in Article 71(6) shall apply. The purchase of blood products is subject to the same rights and obligations as other medicines. But I'm curious, Madam Minister, you've always talked about the advantage and not the exclusive. I asked: What are the definitions under which the Institute for Transfusion Medicine has the exclusive right to sell — not the advantage? Since, if it has the advantage, the Public Procurement Act allows for a negotiated contract, which is open and negotiated. But you didn't allow a public order here, so you asked for a direct purchase. You know, you're probably aware that the Institute for Transfusion Medicine has been selling or supplying blood products in the past even after 80 percent margin. I also want to know: How do you comment on the fact that the alleged head of the Economics and Financing Service of the Department of Transfusion Medicine is also a member of the Section for Blood Supply at the Ministry of Health? Does this also affect your decision or your instruction that the Institute for Transfusion Medicine has the perfect exclusive? I also ask you now to comment on the fact that UKC Maribor has signed a contract for the supply of blood products with an indeterminate time-limited institution. Does that hold? How will you react if this contract is signed? There was quite a resistance also in UKC Maribor itself by lawyers who still claim by legal opinions that they cannot have the Institute for Transfusion Medicine exclusive, especially the contract for indefinite time without price.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u131	Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thanks for the extra question. I think I have already explained clearly enough in the first part why in Slovenia the solution is the same as it is for blood plasma products that are derived as a product from human blood donated by Slovenian blood donors free of charge. That's our position, too. And the answer to the European Court of Justice is that this tenderer, who is interested in selling these products to us, has also initiated proceedings before the European Court of Justice. It's not that, I'll say, such a unique solution. Such solutions are known, for example, for some other countries and for some other products where some public interest or better supply, which is within national competence, does not go according to the provisions of this Article 168 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. With regard to the fact that the observation was also linked to prices, let me say, we have collected data for this year, for nine months, and the average purchase prices through the Office of Transfusion Medicine are cheaper than this foreign provider has offered. As for the contract itself, I cannot comment, because I do not have information on what kind of contract, how long with UKC Maribor has been concluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u133	Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have the floor to request procedural action.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u134	In view of the things that will take place in January, we will in fact also raise this issue at one of the meetings. I would have asked you, Minister, only in this place, to then answer: Is there really a cross between the interests of one of the employees of the Department of Transfusion Medicine? At the same time, I would like to inform you if you did not know that, in the case of France, the European Court of Justice has ruled that the French borders are essentially open to the purchase of blood products. This is how you obviously make excuses to the directives – once yes, once no; once it is taken into account, not once. We will also obviously discuss this at the January session.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u135	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to Mr Jožef Horvat, which will raise a question for the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman. Mr. Horvath, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Madam Minister of Finance, I am addressing you with a question related to the implementation of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. This law was enacted on 28 December 2012, it is said to have been in force for almost four years, and Article 33 of this Act regulates the responsibility of members of the bank management and supervision bodies and bank supervision bodies. The first paragraph of this Article, i.e. Article 33, lays down for the members of the Management Board of the Banking Claims Management Company the obligation to immediately disclose suspected criminal conduct of members of the management, control and supervision of banks to the competent authorities. However, in the second paragraph of Article 33 of the said Act, a dismissal or termination of the employment relationship is provided as a sanction for the suspension of this duty. Dear Madam Minister, I am interested in the following information: How many suspicions of criminal conduct have the members of the Management Board of the Bank Management Company announced to the competent authorities to date since the entry into force of the Act, in accordance with Article 33, paragraph 1, of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks? So it's about four years apart. Thank you very much in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u137	Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, let me be brief, but rather concrete. So far, DUTB has reported 57 irregularities to the National Investigation Office, while DUTB has prepared a total of 6 complaints which have been transmitted to the General Police Administration for further investigation. Within the DUTB there is a system of announcements, so we cannot assign all these activities to the members of the Management Board precisely, and the DUB management is concerned that those who are under internal rules responsible for carrying out such announcements will also fulfil this duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u139	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for your very specific answers. I like the answers in numbers. Of course, according to the size of the so-called bank hole or the height of the bank hole, the Slovenian public can also represent and present a picture of whether these 57 allegations of irregularity are sufficient or not. However, I would have another question, Madam Minister, concerning the second paragraph of Article 33, which is the question: How much was the dismissal or termination of the working relationship between the members of management or the Management Board of the Company for the management of bank claims for reasons of fault as a result of the suspension of duties, as defined in Article 33, paragraph 2, of the Act? Thank you very much for those answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u141	Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Finance, within the framework of its supervisory powers, did not detect a case where the obligations laid down in Article 33 of the Law would be waived, so we did not propose the dismissal of any member of the Management Board in order to waive that duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u143	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you very much. This is an extremely important issue and I think it would be good for the National Assembly to hold a debate at the next meeting on the implementation of the Law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, especially in order to focus on the implementation of Article 33 of the Act. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, I propose to the National Assembly that it be decided that this debate be held at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u145	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We continue with Mrs Nado Brinovšek, who will ask the question of the matter sent to the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go, Mrs. Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, nice greeting to everyone in the hall. Last autumn, the Ministry of the Environment prepared or presented to the public for the first time a plan to reduce flood risks. These presentations were then prepared by the end of last year, throughout Slovenia and, according to you, the distinguished Minister. But there's still no plan. A civil initiative was also launched in the Upper Savinja Valley at the beginning of last year, which, together with the mayors, constantly alerts the Ministry to the dangers and damage caused by the Savinja River at the time of the floods. According to flood damage estimates, 25,2 million damage occurred in the Upper Savinja Valley in the period 2007-2014. In December 2015, a consultation was also held in Ljubno ob Savinja, where the mayors present and the initiative were presented with this plan and were also promised to participate in the preparation of this plan. As this cooperation did not take place, this autumn the mayors of Upper Saxon municipalities at the Ministry also addressed an urgent letter concerning the placement of our valleys in the country's flood safety priorities. Regrettably, however, the mayors were aware that there is no flood risk reduction in the state's plan for the upper Savinja River. In this regard, I am interested in: Why isn't Savinja's upper stream in this plan? I am also interested in the following: When is this NPO really going to be over? Will he be presented in the field? Will local communities and civil initiatives be able to make any comments on this plan? Are the financial resources provided for this NPO in the budget? So thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u147	Dear Minister Irena Majcen, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you also to Ambassador Nadi Brinovšek for the question. I would like to say that the flood risk reduction plan is ready for all of Slovenia, and these first presentations in last year covered the whole of Slovenia. It is true that these presentations were not only in the Upper Savina Valley, but also in other areas quite a lot of comments, which was then processed professionally. It is true that this processing of these comments is not an over-the-finger assessment, but it is necessary to cover uniform methods, a uniform method, which is actually a review of a number of measures, where these plans or proposals need to be assessed. It is true, however, that this would be done and now this plan is in a strategic environmental impact assessment and an environmental report is being prepared. This means that we have actively coordinated and communicated with key protection resources, nature, agriculture, culture and in the final stage of preparation this year. Thus, by the end of the year or at the beginning of the following year, when this preparatory phase is completed, it will be put back into public hearing and will be discussed. At that time, we will re-organise public presentations, but the process of strategic environmental impact assessment will not be completed, nor will the environmental report be prepared. Therefore, when this public segment is published and the process is completed, we expect these two documents to be completed, so that this plan will also be adopted in the Government in the first half of 2017. But it is true that as a study these plans were presented at 27. Muscle days in Maribor, that was 7. 12. It is true that in these plans Savinja is also specific, that several investments were made on this river Savinja from the Cohesion Project Operational Programme 2007-2013 and that there is currently a hydrological and hydraulic study, a very important document later on in order to operationalise the implementation of the measures. It is true that this study is being prepared by the Faculty of Construction. Even at the time it is being prepared by the Department of Water, it is actually included in the list of Unesc’s faculties, which means that their product would be at a high professional level. I wish I could accept it not only by profession, but also by people living next to Savinja. In fact, Savinja's problem is actually through the entire flow. It is also true that the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water must also prepare measures to be financed by cohesion, the Operational Programme 2014-2020, the set of these projects is not yet completed, the study is pending and the NZPO is awaiting completion. I can read to you what the professional services have prepared for me. I would like this to be financed, but the NPO will be prepared in terms of implementing the measures, financial structures will not, but I have already said several times that, if the water fund was fully dedicated to the implementation of flood measures, all these measures could probably be implemented within 10 to 15 years. However, it is the construction of a retainer over Štipíh, the organisation of dams in Trbíž, then the retainers in Kolovrat, Radmir and the anti-floating regime of the Okojina Grabna holder in Gračnica. This means that several projects are involved, and in the beginning of 2017 there is also public treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor by asking a question from the Member State to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anjo Kopač Dark. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. At the September regular meeting of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, a colleague from the SMC asked you a question about the opening of the SVC unit in Lithuania. In your reply to the Member State, you stated that SVC, d. o. o., had fully recapitalised the company before bankruptcy, which, according to the information obtained, did not hold it, but rather the opposite; the Municipality of Lithuania fully recapitalised the company, while providing revenue for the normal operation of the company with long-term contracts with preschool providers, music schools and the home of older citizens of Tisje. I do not understand that now that the Municipality of Lithuania, together with the company SVC, d.o.o., has done everything to ensure adequate premises and with the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has already established the VDC unit within the framework of Ince Mengeš in 2007, and in the event of the public needs expressed in the municipality of Lithium and the municipality of Šmartno pri Lithija, which have been vacated by the Circe Areas of 50 and more kilometres, the Ministry does not arrange the necessary activities to enable this group of our citizens to grow properly within the VDC Zagorje Public Institute. This summer, the Council of the Public Institute of VDC Zagorje unanimously adopted a decision on the opening of a unit in Lithuania with an elaborate elaborat and on the basis of the commitment of both municipalities, Lithuania and Šmartno to Lithuania, to subsidise the part of the rent and also the transport costs of VDC guards. That's why, Madam Minister, I'm asking: Will the Ministry, with these new facts, only allow the removal of the grey foxes in this part of the country? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u151	Dear Minister Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, thank you for asking. As you mentioned, the unit VDC Lithium was mentioned for the first time in 2007 and was mentioned for the first time in the framework of the Ince Mengeš Protective Work Centre. The INCE Mengsha Statute also states that the unit in Lithium should be theirs. With the opening of the new unit VDC Zagorje in Lithuania, we have been working at the Ministry since the beginning of the operation of SVC Lithium, which operates under the name of the Šmelc Intergeneration Centre in Lithuania and where there is also a unit for the elderly, Dom Tisje. I myself, unfortunately, for everyone's sake, will say interesting things about this company, because the question of the transfer of the House of the Force also had to be ensured, above all, that it would not happen, that in the end the elderly would have to move out of the building, because there was actually an issue of survival all the time. So, of course, I am aware that the recapitalisation has now been carried out, but this story has been going on for a very long time. And, of course, the Ministry of Labour must, above all, regardless of the local community's interests, including the municipalities that went into this project financially, first of all, that we must take care of users and users. In 2015 and 2016, the Ministry expanded the network of providers of protective work centres by providing additional capacity for 327 users, first filling the available spatial capacity of existing public institutions in the protective work centres, while at the same time providing 100 new jobs. Thus, the management, protection and employment service is carried out under special conditions in 34 protective work centres, of which 23 are public institutions and 11 concessionaires. The service includes 3 000 426 adults with disabilities in physical and mental development, of which 2 000 891 in the public service and 535 in concessionaires. During the last six months, we have devoted ourselves to the establishment of a new unit in Lithuania, so that we have specifically defined the priorities needed to start the operation of the unit. Director of VDC Zagorje Dr Špela Režun expressed her initiative to establish the VDC Zagorje unit in Lithuania because of the needs they identified in that area. At the Ministry, we had two meetings with the principal. On the basis of the analysis presented of the needs for the inclusion of new VDC users in the area of the municipality of Lithuania and the surrounding area prepared by Dr Špela Režun, we agreed that the possibility of establishing a new unit would be checked between 2017, so that the unit would start operating with 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission for the Identification of Technical and Housing Conditions is 6. 12. 2016 carried out a tour of the premises and found that the premises in SVC Lithium for the operation of the VDC unit are suitable for the inclusion of a maximum of 30 users. Immediately after the meeting of the Ministry, the Director forwarded the indicative deadline plan so that it would be possible to establish a new unit with 1. 1. 2018, at the same time additional financial resources and around €330 000 per year will have to be provided. The Municipality of Lithium and the Society of Co-existence have also promised assistance in the establishment of the VDC unit in Lithuania. On the basis of all of this, when the recapitalisation was carried out, these first necessary preconditions for normal operation, we have, of course, analysed that there are no additional capacities in the Zagorje Work Centre, which would allow, of course, what would be most rational, because it is necessary to look at people as close as possible, but also financial capabilities, and we have agreed that in the following year we will only approach these enlargements. Even earlier, however, VDC Zagorje will be available, I think it has still capacity and will be realized in the framework of VDC Zagorje, and then we will approach enlargement for a new unit, as was the wish of the municipality and other participants.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u153	Mr Miha Kordish will ask Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc's question. Mr. Kordish, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Madam Minister, I think you know very well how in the United Left we support your efforts for the public health system, so please take this question of mine very well. However, I am concerned about the Pharmacy Act because there are, in our opinion, some solutions contrary to the public interest. Since this law has not yet been passed, I would like to invite you if these deviations could be removed together. What's this all about? The first problem is the next. Under the applicable law, the concessionaire can only be organised as a s.p. This new law allows the concessionaire to establish a d. o. o. and to sell the half share in this d.o.o. to third parties. That's bad enough on its own. Why? Of course, no one will invest money in the pharmacy unless they expect a reasonable return on this money. This yield can only be increased in such a way as to raise sales. Of course, if we accept such a solution, then we put in our entire pharmacy system a profitable motive that directly forces us into excessive drug consumption. But unfortunately, that's not the biggest problem this marriage has. The main problem is that Article 26 of this proposal prohibits a pharmacy owned by a wholesaler rather than – and this is important – but does not prohibit a wholesaler from being co-owner of a pharmacy. This is not an abstract threat, this is a very real situation on the ground, because 60% of the European market is controlled by three multinationals who are still increasing their market share by creating chains of pharmacies. The situation is even worse for us because two large players control 80% of the market and this proposal allows them to become co-owners in 87 concessional pharmacies. That's why I want to know: Why does Article 26 prohibit a pharmacy owned by a wholesaler but does not prohibit a wholesaler from being co-owner of a concessional pharmacy? That's the first question. The second question concerns grosists owned by public pharmacies. We have this situation in Ljubljana, and we have it in Maribor and, as it is said, the law prohibits this connection. And I want to know: Then what's gonna happen to these critters? Will they need to be privatized, or will they be able to be transferred to their own congregation? Of course, as a socialist, I am likely to overemphasize that the privatisation or even liquidation of these companies does not count for us, because they would be the most beneficial of them exclusively two private wholesalers who already control 80% of the market. Here we need to find a solution that is not privatisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u155	Dear Minister of Health, Mrs. Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u156	Mr Vice-President, Mr Kordish, thank you for the question. Messengers and Members! In preparing the Pharmacy Act, we have followed equality between all operators of this activity, as the European Commission has pointed out many times. One of its observations was precisely the unequal exercise of the same work between public pharmacies and individuals with concessions who could only carry out these activities as private health professionals or as independent entrepreneurs. However, the effect of carrying out activities in this status form was that the non-equity of taxation or that the independent entrepreneur carrying out the pharmacy activity of the higher-ranking institution carrying out this activity was in an unequal position with regard to the taxation itself. This was the reason why, in the bill, we allow the concessionaire to operate in other legal forms, but also third parties can obtain only up to 50% of the ownership, which means that he must be a pharmacist; it is said that the one who is the most qualified and has a license to do so continues to retain a majority share. Therefore, this part of the response is the equivalence of the operation of public institutions dealing with the pharmaceutical activity and the private sector, which can carry out this activity in a different status form, not only as a sole entrepreneur. It is important that this law is prepared in such a way that it does not promote the excessive use or purchase of medicinal products and is therefore required to be the majority owner of a pharmacist who must run a pharmacy and operate in accordance with a law expressly prohibiting the promotion of the purchase or use of medicinal products, but which does not comply with this legal provision or the code of pharmaceutical deontology, may lose the licence to carry out this activity and consequently also the concessions. With regard to Article 26, where restrictions are laid down for all pharmaceutical operators, both public institutions and concessionaires are referred to as restrictions on the provision of professional integrity and independent operation, they constitute and apply to both directions. Therefore, the prohibition of vertical connections in the direction of a velodrogeria-manufacturer-medicine and vice versa; the pharmacy-velodrogeria-manufacturer. That provision was introduced for a number of reasons. The first is that this ensures the professional independence of pharmacists, whose primary responsibility is the care of individual health and the protection of public health and not the primary creation of profits. By preventing connections, the economic impact on the professional decisions of pharmacists is minimised and drug users operate in accordance with professional and ethical standards. A third important reason is that this irregular area of connections leads to deregulation, since ultimately ownership is the one that determines economic integration. Let me mention that countries with regulated pharmaceutical activities and adequate procurement and supply of medicines, such as Austria, Germany, Italy, France, are all subject to this prohibition of vertical integration. So much for the intro.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Minister, you have highlighted two objectives in this law; and the first is the prohibition of vertical connections, and the second is the prevention of excessive use of medicines. I agree with both objectives. My claim and my concern is that this law does not prevent them. Firstly, you mentioned Article 26, which is supposed to prevent a two-way connection, and right here I say that is not true. This is not something that would be said in Article 26. This defines only, sorry, this prohibits only one way of this vertical connection, but not the other. Just a grosist, a wholesale company will be able to access the pharmacy's property, 87 concessional pharmacies, for example, as we have them. Even if it has less than half the equity share, it will gain influence and direct interest, a motive to increase sales, because in this way it increases its profits, which leads me to another goal in this declared law, that is the excessive use of medicines. In this way, we put a structural mechanism directly into the pharmacy business, which makes it possible to increase profits and thus to over-use medicines. Once again, I have no problem prohibiting vertical connections, and I have no problem limiting the excessive use of medicines; on the contrary, I strongly support this. But the problem is that your marriage doesn't work, and if I'm right, we have it on the table tomorrow at this national assembly. In the United Left, we've tabled amendments to correct exactly the kicks that I've just highlighted. Here I would like your parties to join us in meeting these goals, which are also our objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u159	Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you. Once again, I will reiterate and stress that Article 26 of the bill prohibits connections, vertical connections in both directions: velodrogeria – a manufacturer – a pharmacy and vice versa, a pharmacy – a velodrogeria – a manufacturer, because this is, as you can see, one of the objectives and purpose of this law, so that we do not have problems and problems in the future with the appropriate supply of medicines for our population. Let me say that there are already 70 velodrogerists registered in Slovenia today, that there is, of course, competition and that for those who today have this vertical link, a transitional period or one-year period is envisaged to adjust properly or to change their ownership structure accordingly. Let me also say, on this occasion, that this is not contrary to the European legal order, that we have a number of European Court rulings, which the European Commission has brought against both Italy, Germany and Spain and Austria, where it has been clear that the free economic initiative and the free movement of capital has been hampered. In all cases, the Court ruled by agreeing that the country, although obstructing an economic initiative in a certain part of the room, had ruled in favour of the countries and concluded that the European Commission was wrong. Why? Because pharmacies are not ordinary trade in goods, the legislator in each Member State may also impose restrictions if it considers that a higher quality of pharmacy and medicines will be ensured from this point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Madam Minister, I have Article 26 ahead of me, this Article 26 has five paragraphs. The prohibition of vertical connections is regulated in the second paragraph and only refers to operators of pharmaceutical activities which must not be owned by this and the third, but do not say anything in the opposite direction; for example, that wholesalers cannot own a smaller proportion of pharmacies and thus push them towards a profitable motive, increasing the sales of medicines and thus excessive use of medicinal products. In the United Left we support all efforts for public health, but I think we are dealing in this case with a case where a positive purpose has been planted with a cowardly egg and you, Madam Minister, have obviously overtrusted your working group. Among other things, for the sake of interest, I would like to say that the working group is also a pharmacy concessionary from Rač, President of the Pharmacy Chamber. I don't mean to be silly, but it's kind of like inviting the president of Dr. Brain's Medical Chamber to help you limit doctor's concessions. Of course that's not gonna happen. Given your answer, I have no choice but to define myself here as a general debate on these cowardly eggs. First time. In this proposal, the pharmacy regulation does not prohibit the possession or use of a pharmacy by a Grossist. At the same time, the possibility is introduced for the concessionaire to open d. o. o. and the half share to be sold to a third party. Of course, if we add these two together, we get a vertical connection between the Gross and the private pharmacies. Specific example, Chemofarming can thus become a silent partner in 87 private pharmacies in our country. Another time. Article 26 of this proposal prohibits public institutions from having capital shares in wholesale and pharmaceutical companies, which is positively supported by O.K., but here remains an emerging exemption for concessionaires. Not last time, third time. This proposal specifies precisely and positively that the surpluses of public pharmacies can be used only for the development of pharmacy activities and only for the development of health activities, and this is the real thing. But here again you have made an exception for concessionaires and in the United Left we propose precisely to prescribe a compulsory concession fee, so that the concessionaire also contributes something to the development of health care in his municipality and returns to the community. I think that these reasons are a very well-founded basis for the general debate, and I would like to point out here quite to the end that former Minister Tomaž Gantar, in my opinion, mines public health, but in March 2013 he proposed a law that was better than yours in this segment that we are currently debating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on 13 December, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, allow me to allow you, at a time when health care is in bad condition and is still going to a worse time, you are trying to change this to make a reform to make some changes, but unfortunately not. But at a time when species are getting longer and harder to get to a doctor when waiting rooms are full, many will resist or contact a doctor. In Slovenia we also have the Health Act, which will celebrate this law for ten years. Finally, this activity, which is registered with us, is legal, here mainly deals with traditional Chinese medicine, Ayurveda, Indian medicine, homeopathy and so on. In short, more and more people are focusing on or wanting to have such services. In Slovenia we also have an organized medical clinic that provides specific services for physicians and, above all, provides certain documents and education. That's why I want to know: How do you see the role of healers or medicines in Slovenia? I want to know: How does this law actually work? It says: How many medics do we have in Slovenia, even by species, how many licences are issued, how many licenses are taken? For example, if a person does not do well, he may be granted a license. Last: Do you have an estimate of how many unregistered doctors there are? It is said that they do not actually have any basic education or that they do not have some completed exams. In short: How's it going in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you, Vice President. Mr Andrej Šircelj, honourable Member, it is true that in 2007, in order to regulate the field of medicinal activities in Slovenia, the Medical Act was adopted, which proposed the establishment of a so-called medical chamber with the required mandatory membership as a key and optimal medical regime in Slovenia. The Ministry of Health, with a view to carrying out and providing sufficient legal provisions, has prepared all the preparatory actions necessary to establish the so-called Medical Chamber or to reach the founding assembly at which it would be established. Regrettably, just before the meeting was convened, there were substantive differences between the healers themselves, so in fact this congregation was never called to mind. For that reason, of course, the Medical Chamber was never established, and the Act was amended in 2011 to carry out the tasks performed by the Ministry until the establishment of this Chamber as a public authority. In order to be able to carry out this law or to carry out the tasks of the Medical Chamber, the Ministry appointed a special committee for the field of medicine, to which both representatives of medical associations and representatives of the Ministry were appointed. However, this Commission has encountered a number of difficulties in reviewing applications, reviewing different certificates and certificates of competence of the individual candidate, since there is no formal education involved in the medical profession, but that certificates or certificates are obtained from a number of non-formal educations. There were also numerous conflicts of interest in the work of the Commission itself, as individual members of the Commission were also representatives of various fields of medicine, and were themselves involved in education, the result of which was the issue of certificates. This, of course, protected the interests of their protectors and, as a result, was biased in the examination of certificates from other institutions. It was for all these reasons that the real implementation of the law did not take place. Up to now, only 5 licences have been granted to four medical doctors in the field of traditional Chinese medicine, manual therapy and osteopathy, and one license in the area of Ayurveda. We have therefore found that the law, such as it is, is not in fact appropriate, is not comparable to that of other European countries, as is also evident from the report of the European Cambrella project, which includes data for 39 EU Member States. In these countries, the alternative is complemented by classical, official medicine to go hand in hand, while in Slovenia doctors are not allowed to carry out medical treatment. You know that there was also a long-standing opposition in the Medical Chamber of Homeopathy. Furthermore, this report shows that in most Member States this complementary medicine and alternative medicine is usually carried out by persons with primary education, either by healthcare professionals or even by doctors. Some methods such as acupuncture, homeopathy, osteopathy, traditional Chinese medicine can only be carried out by doctors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, will you request a follow-up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary. I have to say that now that I have this answer, I'm actually even more concerned about it than I was before I asked that question. In fact, because, as I said, medicine plays a role in all countries. You mentioned some analysis yourself for 39 countries and so on. The law was dealt with about ten years ago and did not come to life. My only question is this: What are you gonna do now? Look, you have some law that is essentially inoperable, none of which has, after all, more and more, if you want, charlatans, or because of that there are many charlatans, and – what will you do now? The Chamber has not been established, the Ministry of Finance has failed to manage the work that should be done instead of the chamber – the Ministry of Health – I apologize for the work that should be done instead of the chamber. That's bad. Then we could also suggest that this law be simply abolished. Of course, in society, in the market and so on, there are many people who have education, do not have education, do not have knowledge, are skills of this work, are not skills of this work and, of course, all of this goes to patients. On the other hand, public health does not provide services which, of course, should be provided for this health. Now we're just in a vicious circle here, and now I'm really curious, Minister. What are you gonna do when you do something? When is this gonna work? Or leave it all alone. So now I don't know. I'm more worried. [[…]] [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you for complementing the question. I will complete my reply in this part that after the current law, it is possible to carry out most of the methods to physicians who do not have a health education, but only a medical examination. This medical examination covers the area of first aid, anatomy, physiology, health education, hygiene and internal medicine with pathology. Since the entry into force of this amendment, this medical examination has been carried out by 50 physicians since 2011. Last year I appointed a working group consisting of an interdisciplinary group in which representatives of the Slovenian Medical Society, the Medical Chambers of Slovenia, the Homeopathic Society and others will and will prepare a new law that is to be prepared and adopted by the end of 2017 according to the Government's normative programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Koleša will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Boris Koprivnikar, a few days ago you are the Ministers of the European Union responsible for communication, officially supported the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, in a presentation scheme called Wifi for Europe, which would help local authorities to enable free WiFi connections for people in European cities and villages. We are informed that the first call for projects will be published before the summer of 2017 and that it is financial support of EUR 120 million for the period 2017-2019. All the local authorities of the European Union will be able to compete for support in establishing high-quality Internet access in parks, markets, public buildings or libraries. This incentive will be financed by the Connecting Europe Facility, called the CEF, and by local authorities wishing to establish wireless networks in areas where there is a similar public or private offer or where there is not yet one, they will be able to apply for funding under a simple and non-barbaric procedure. Mr Minister, we believe that this is an extremely important project, so we would certainly like to know more about it. Above all: How do we prepare for it in Slovenia? What are the possibilities for increasing citizens' access to modern wireless networks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you, President, for your words, thank you, Member of Parliament, for the question. It is true, as you correctly note, that the Telecommunications Council has received support for this project, which is also an initiative, as far as I know personally, of the President of the European Commission. However, it is about accelerating the use of high-speed networks, this time focused mainly on local communities. This was first published on 1 September this year as part of a broader connectivity package, which also introduces some other technologies. However, the purpose of this project is to cover with wireless access those intersections where life takes place in a local community. According to our information, this project, financed by the CEF, as you mentioned, is earmarked for around €120 million. So this is a significant asset and it is intended to cover some 6 to 8 thousand such community points at which this connectivity could actually be ensured. The basic idea is to ensure that the Commission obtains equipment, installations from these funds, while local communities provide running costs or running maintenance. The Regulation itself has not yet been adopted. Even as such, the call is not yet defined exactly what it will be, but we expect it to be in the short term, and even now, after this confirmation. However, precise criteria for this call are still being drawn up. Here, too, our site is very active, because we want these criteria to take into account distribution, where, how these networks can be set up, because the basic principle is that they will allocate funds through the system: first comes, first served. Therefore, we want to protect the interest that Slovenia too is: for the first time, very quickly with the applications ready, and for the second time to ensure some regional distribution of these projects. Let me say that we have already booked a specific domain, the Wifi for Europe, which is specifically intended for information in this area – we have already shared information. In particular, we communicate with the communities of the municipalities that are most interested in establishing this and we will continue to step up this communication. However, we also agree in the House within the Directorate for Information Society that we will also provide support to potential applicants in terms of preparing for the project, exactly how, in what way, to prepare projects so that they have a greater chance of success. However, this is one of the projects in this connectivity package, from which I count that we will be able to obtain, through good preparation, considerable resources to build these local networks, which will be very welcome for citizens, because they are highly capable and free of charge. And this is what improves the area in which we are the worst under the so-called DESI index. Slovenia has well-developed services, has relatively well-developed basic networks, but we are weak in the scope of use; it is said that more people should use these services and that is exactly what these projects are aimed at. In doing so, let me say that for us the project is also so-called 5G for Europe. This is a project by which the European Commission wants to accelerate the deployment of these new generation wireless networks, the so-called 5G, for which it also allocates large funds, and also allows for extremely high wireless connectivity speeds, including up to 1 gigabit. Let me say that it was with the Telecommunications Council that we also had a bilateral with Mr Oettinger, who also leads as Commissioner of this area, and I was surprised at how well Slovenia's development in this area is being monitored, and in this case we have expressed our direct interest, both for active inclusion in the WiFi for Europe project and for the wish that Slovenia among the first countries, in fact, be included among the pilots for the introduction of this extremely fast wireless network. In so doing, let me say that this pilot for Slovenia is also important because there is also a game here, as I would say, of time. Whoever is the first to be able to provide this fastest network will also attract investors, various forms of testing. I must say that I am pleased that we have received a confirmed deadline for actually meeting with Mr Oettinger's team and our team in January and to develop fully operationally the possibilities for continuation of this project, so that I am very optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u176	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister! I will ask the question below about the operation of the Bank Claims Management Company, the so-called bad bank. Today, I will ask only one question, but I am sure that, in view of the events in the DUDB, it would be imperative to make at least an extraordinary decision by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Today, a question has been raised regarding the so-called resignation of the President of the Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company, which we were able to see in the media at the end of October that Dr Simoneti, President of the Management Board, resigned. On some committees by financial and monetary policy and statements made by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, we have been able to come to the conclusion that Marko Simoneti is still Chairman of the Management Board of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. It is very interesting that we had quite a few meetings of the parent working body, the Committee on Finance and monetary policy, which, as a rule, when the programme had a point on the Banks Claims Management Society, the President of the Management Board did not participate. Finally, they also testified that the last meeting itself, the item of the 2015 annual report, was suspended because of the fact that the Chairman of the DURB Management Board did not attend the meeting, unanimously; both by the opposition and by the coalition, this was confirmed. As Finance Minister, I am sure that you are responsible for the work of the Claims Management Society, and in particular the President of the Management Board, because, last but not least, the Government is the one who appoints and disposes of this person. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State: What is the working status of the Chairman of the Management Board of the Bank Management Company Dr. Mark Simonetti today? Can you comment on his nonparticipation at the meetings of the parent’s working body?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr Member, thank you for the question. The non-executed members of the DUTB Management Board are not in a working relationship with DTUB, but carry out their work on the basis of a management contract. On the basis of the contract concluded with Mr Simonetti, it is also included in the contract concluded with Mr Simonetti, which includes a three-month notice. The Ministry received a declaration of resignation on 28 October and, at the same time, Mr Simonetti's statement that he would respect the three-month notice period set out in the management contract. This means, in other words, that Mr Simoneti is due to expire on 28 January 2017 and that he fulfils all the obligations arising from his position as a member of the Management Board or of the non-executed Director and Chairman of the DUTB Management Board within the notice of his resignation. In the meantime, or at that time, intensive activities are under way to appoint new non-executive members of the DUTB Management Board. Why did we choose to do so? The withdrawal or withdrawal of Dr Simoneti's statement occurred during the period when we completed some of the key DUTB projects this year: from the provision or preparation of a DUTB management strategy or claims managed by DUTB until the end of the life-cycle of DUTB, to 2022, the investment policy of DUTB was being prepared, the revision of the DUTB guidelines was being prepared, and all the necessary acts were being prepared to ensure that debt payments due by the end of this year, by limiting myself to the key ones. All of these activities were carried out or completed in cooperation with Dr. Simonetti, and this was a key substantive reason for us to decide for ourselves to put in place or to demand the continuation of work within the time limit. As I have pointed out many times before, it is crucial for me that the DUB acts in a stable manner and fulfils the tasks for which it was established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u180	Mr President, thank you for the floor. This reply, on the one hand, is interesting, honourable Minister, but now you have made it public that Marko Simoneti is still in full office as President of the Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company as a member of the Management Board itself as a non-executive director. If I understand you correctly, its withdrawal declaration will enter into force on 28 January 2017. This means that it continues to operate with full powers. You have not answered my question about his non-participation at the meetings of the parent working body, the Committee on Finance and monetary policy. It is you who have the hands of the DURB and the Chairman of the Management Board, and it has now become again that the meeting has even been suspended and that the National Assembly has not considered the 2015 annual report for such an important institution as the DUTB. As Minister, I expect you to ensure his participation on 11 January 2017 when the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is convened again, which will consider this report. I want to know: Why has the Government not yet considered, or has it, the resignations of the Chairman of the Governing Board? When are you going to appoint non-executive directors? According to my behavior, you'll be missing after the 28th if you don't name at least one or two. One city is still empty. Why is this thing waiting? Why has the government not yet considered his resignation statement?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u182	As I mentioned in the first part of my reply, the withdrawal declaration shall be valid from the day it was given — this is 28 October — and shall include a notice of cancellation. The notice period shall be set for a period of three months and shall allow for a stable operation of the company during the transition between the discharge and the appointment of new management or new non-executive directors. As I mentioned earlier, the procedure for the appointment of new non-executive directors is under way and will be completed before January 28th, so that there will be no, say, disruptions in operation due to non-titlement or lack of number of non-executive directors. As regards participation in meetings of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy or of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, it is true that the Minister of Finance or the Ministry is responsible for the field of work or we have certain powers in the field of the operation of the DUTB, but this does not include dealing with the daily responsibilities of individual members of the DUTB management. I cannot comment on the participation or non-participation of individual DUB members on the committee or on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I must admit that the question that I am asking orally is mostly about guests in Slovenia, who, many of whom are very difficult to survive. Mr Minister, as you know, we are promoting Slovenia as a highly tourist country. When we talk about the tourism segment, we can say, positive aspects of the growth of Slovenian tourism at all levels. Of course, bureaucratic obstacles, we can say that bureaucratic thinking, which extends under this government to different areas, also extends to the area of the economy, especially to your area of expertise, the hospitality. As far as I am concerned, many of my guests, including their locals, are asking me if everything is okay, when inspectors are literally harassing them daily, they go to look at their terraces and see what the closed terrace is and what is not an open smoker's terrace. They go so far as to measure the distance if on one side it is closed with at least a few boards, measure the distance between the boards and determine that it is a closed space. They walk by the meters and measure these distances and prescribe enormous penalties for those innkeepers, whom we can say they have minimal income. I have to admit, things aren't in number one, two or four, but things are in the hundreds. Hundreds of these visits, and currently the inspection mainly notes and looks at these terraces. On the other hand, we live, at least in Slovenian Gorica, where I live near the border – on the other hand, completely open, the innkeepers decide whether they will have a place for smokers, non-smokers, as far as the terrace is concerned, they do not know this regulation at all. On the other hand, the whole type of terrace is located in very open areas, where there is wind, where everything is left and these terraces, unless they are closed on at least one side; see, in fact, there will be no guest there. Mr. Minister, as a man who still understands the economy in my opinion, I would like to ask you for an answer: What is your thinking, what are your solutions? Do you also see these problems that these little guests in Slovenia have many, especially now within these terraces? As a minister and a member of the government, do you also suggest to your colleagues in various areas that they should somehow change this mentality and allow the guests to work in this area? As we know, for the most part, the marriage barriers we had did not reduce the number of smokers, and in fact prevent the normal work of the innkeepers. Moreover, it reduced the arrival of some guests right in border areas in Slovenia. That's why I'm asking you for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u186	Mr President, Members, honourable Members, thank you for the question! The field of tobacco and related products does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, but rather falls within the competence of the Ministry of Health. Of course, because your question concerns or relates to the conditions of smoking on the outdoor guest terraces, I answer in the part of the competences that our ministry and I, as a department minister in this area, have. I must say that we have been actively involved in defining this issue of closed space, but despite everything. The Act currently in force on the restriction of the consumption of tobacco products referred to in Article 16, paragraph 1, of Article 16 provides that a closed public space or a working space shall be regarded as having a roof and fully closed more than half of the area of the wall. In practice, the definition has proved to be flawed, as you said, both for guests and for inspection services. Both have faced difficulties in recent years, especially for innkeepers who also had to arrange suitable premises or outdoor terraces for significant investments, so that they were also suitable for smokers. In order to avoid problems and different interpretations, the Ministry of Health has already issued specific recommendations in 2007 setting out what a closed public space is and yet the innkeepers have been in doubt about the appropriateness of their gardens and terraces where smokers could smoke. The Ministry of Health has drawn up a proposal for a law restricting the consumption of tobacco and related products, which, inter alia, redefines the definition of indoor space, walls and roofs that affect the operation of catering facilities on the outside terraces. I must say that we have actively cooperated and that we have also included in this definition of closed space the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise Slovenia and the last definition adopted was in line with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the section for hospitality. From the point of view of ensuring the interests of the economy, in this case catering and trade activities, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has also actively participated in the preparation of this new legislation and in the intensive coordination of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology with the Chamber, as I said, of the agreed solutions that will ensure the smooth functioning of the external guest gardens and terraces. In addition, in cooperation with the competent inspection services, the authorities of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry will also prepare training and inform the innkeepers about the new legal conditions regarding smoking in the outdoor gardens and terraces, thus avoiding potential conflicting interpretations and understanding of the conditions of inspection services and operators in the future. If I withdraw, the external gardens and terraces, which are already in line with the law and the recommendations of the Ministry of Health, will also be considered an open space after the adoption of the new law. Therefore, the new definition in practice will not exacerbate the conditions for closed public space, and all outdoor gardens and terraces, which are now in line with legislation, will remain in line. Keep what you have said that in the case of our northern neighbours this matter remains their comparative competitive advantage and, despite all that we are not satisfied with everything we have achieved in this law, I can say that we have, in cooperation, once again, with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the guest section, at least this definition has been left in some way as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, you're requesting a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I can only read to you the statement made by Mr Meh, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia from the front, I think that, for months – I believe that you have met at this time, but I can say that the problem on one side of the inn is burdensome and, on the other hand, impossible. He's talking about it being the wrong world. Nor does it allow them to earn a decent income. I wonder why the guests are so hated by the state; first, taxes and administrative obstacles, now licenses on tobacco products, and a proposal for a new tobacco law, by which the guests will have to close most of their terraces. So, Mr. Minister, if you have heard that inspectors are already going to a number of terraces with abnormal conditions, they are explaining and essentially harassing the guests on the whole line. On the other hand, we see that, on the one hand, the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products did not bring about a reduction in smoking, even large excise duties were driven away only by Austrian guests who went to Slovenia to buy cigarettes and also to purchase other products in multiple ways. Now you're going to destroy all of this. I have given up on the Minister of Health, she would now like to, I would like to move more excise duties, we will put more into the health treasury and, on the other hand, we should make some reform, and I am, of course, waiting for this reform. See, on the other hand, smokers opt for substitutes, buy cigarettes that are literally from the black market, which are even more unhealthy, can cause more diseases. It's going in the wrong direction. Because of this, honourable Minister, you, who I consider to be a reasonable person, who comes from practice, to influence not only your own department – I know that you are limited in these matters – but your colleagues, that they have lost a step with reality and that they are doing impossible. If they take this forward – they will not reduce the number of smokers, but they will drive away tourists, especially foreigners with foreign purchasing power, who have more money, and also domestic guests from these places. So once again, I ask you to answer me: What are the concrete proposals on your part from the Ministry of the Economy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr Member, for further questions. Once again, I must say what you have quoted President Meh before the adoption of the law. After their intervention, we had quite a few joint discussions with the Ministry of Health. The proposal, which was transmitted in this law now adopted, was agreed in a form that was acceptable, also endorsed by the Chamber of Commerce. If I were to simply say now, one flower after the proposal at the time would be a closed space, so that we remain so that if less than half of the walls are closed, this space is open. Of course, it's not like the neighbors on the north side, but it's still kind of a achievement. An additional achievement in this law is that we have agreed that the interpretation of the open-door space will be made together with the representatives of the trade chamber's professional services, so that the inspection will have a model by which it can assess these matters and will not come to what you have said. You justifiably point out that we will have different interpretations of the same law. However, I must say that our ministry was also active in the rest of the law because you were talking about the supply of the black market, that we had reached a transitional period long enough for a single packaging, because we believe that even if we were more papal than the pope in this area and did so immediately, there would be an enormous increase in this way of powering our market. Secondly, here I must say that I support making a register of tobacco sellers because in this area there have been abuses by selling to minors, that we have done the matter at least according to the bill in a rational way, in terms of costs also as rational as possible. It should be borne in mind that we get almost half a billion euros from tobacco excises and that I think we have to finance from this source things that were intended to be financed from some additional resources. We are pleased in this area. I will not say now that we have worse conditions, but I believe that we and the economy have nevertheless come to one form that is as acceptable as it is to this definition of open space. Of course, it is all about whether we will succeed in this definition as a uniform guide to get it under inspection. I believe we will.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Franz Breznik, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Also from the latest information I have, even from some of the inspectors, that even the superiors tell them that they have to go to the bars to watch what's closed, open space. Like you said, it's anomalies, it's about someone putting a flowerbed, that this terrace is more beautiful, more attractive to tourists; and that someone defines it and that some inspectors, I'm not going to throw everything in the same basket now, they're going to be pure reading. And also this reading to the detriment of the inn, always spelling to the detriment of the guest and so on. Not to speak, the distinguished minister, as you know, some of the venues have, say, electric roofs that open and close. Most inspectors think it's like it's a closed space forever. I suggest that you tell your colleagues in the government that Slovenia is different, that Slovenia is not only Primorska, not only Styria, Dolenjska, Gorenjska. Some localities are in closed areas, such as in the city center, where these terraces are already somehow protected from wind and some external influences. Some of the places in Styria are very open, such as on the banks, where it is even more open and even more crowded. Now, let's say in winter, outside the terrace, where, say, the wind freezes from the left and right, where raindrops are also carried directly to the terrace; yet, people get out of such a place. And on the one hand, the innkeepers in some areas lose their income. I would like, Mr Minister, to discuss this subject on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where we can tell ourselves what the obstacles are. I can introduce myself a group of people, obstacles that should be reduced. If we have already reduced the presence in closed rooms, most of the guests here have agreed and have no problem, let us at least leave these terraces; let those who smoke smoke smoke. And Slovenia should be a friendly country for tourists to make this difference. I'm a non-smoker, and I think you are, too. That's something he can bring and that's normal. The problem is that we're a small country, we're bordering on a few countries, but they don't have so strict letters of law, at least in the terraces. But here I have to admit that I'm on the smoker's side, especially the innkeepers. And in the end, I'm also on the side of a healthy farmer of logic. I think that's what we should take into account all those who decide on the public life of people. Therefore, I ask the Vice-President to hold a debate on this subject on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on 13 December in the framework of the votes. Mr Marko Ferluga will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. Good evening to both ministers and ministers! Even though our education is considered very good and education is considered an investment in the future, and we, as parents of children, view all this as some kind of private project, some kind of investment. But I do have questions that bother me as a father in our school system and I'm scared or I don't want them to come to the Americanisation of education. My first question is: What is your opinion on abandoning homework? I think it's a rule now that's spreading through all primary schools. I think this is bad about working habits for students and responsibility for their work. The second question, and I know that this is an internal act of individual primary schools, is: Are you aware of the need for a preliminary forecast of the question and the possibility of the student rejecting it? That also seems kind of questionable to me. The next question, which is also symptomatic in the sense that parents are overly involved in the work of the school, in the work of the teacher, that we even date lawyers for speaking hours and consider evaluations. According to the opinion of Dr Mirjana Ule of the Faculty of Social Sciences, which made an assessment, this was an assessment of trends in so-called high-rated inflation. I'd like to hear your opinion on this. Another questionable point is that students are deliberately missing lessons — and here we are also parents guilty, hand to heart — in order to avoid the deterioration of grades. I want to know: How is it allowed to go unwarranted at times, saying that individuals do not apologize? Is there any way to sharpen this? And the last question about the use of athlete status. This is where I think we went to some extremes. A lot of people are using it now, especially their parents. But I think the Ministry here should set a very clear limit. When they're at the state level and they're successful at this level, they have the right to do so. I'd like to hear your opinion on this. I think that excessive permissiveness and excessive democraticism will harm everyone — us students — to school. Please restore your reputation to the teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, Members and dear colleagues and colleagues! This is certainly one of the ever-increasing auction questions. It is not only the educational field, as we call it, of all the actors within it, but also of course the wider societies; in particular the parents and all those who are involved in the daily implementation of educational processes. If I start with the first accent, then I'll start with the assignments. The fact is that domestic tasks are part of the educational and educational work and follow-up to all these objectives. It should be stressed that at the same time they are part of the knowledge verification, but not of the actual evaluation of knowledge based on other elements. However, the majority of schools still include the obligation of domestic tasks in the internal rules and do not, in our conduct, abandon the performance of domestic tasks. However, it is also certainly the domain of the teacher’s process, i.e. how the process is drawn up, how many educational and educational activities are carried out during a certain period of school hours and how it achieves learning goals. Here, however, it is right to trust teachers and to trust the school system with a view to monitoring the learning goals, which ultimately also demonstrate the scope and, above all, the level of knowledge. And that's what the whole school field is following. As to the question or question as to how it is. The fact is, these rules also exist. You know that there is this rule on the assessment of knowledge as the final stages of the didactic process followed by schools; and that professional workers are also committed to the public assessment, to informing parents and individuals of the student; and also to the rules themselves as to how the evaluation takes place. The institutions, which also guide the process with their decisions, are also discussing this and at the same time coordinating the implementation of this. The fact is that we have an oral and written way of verifying knowledge, it can be in different forms, for example project work, not just classical traditional work and forms. Students must be informed of the date of writing of the written product within at least five working days of what they are really following. If there are any delays, which may also be for an objective reason, they must continue to be coordinated, so that the students are in good time, informed in good time that they can also apply in good time. The fact is that legislation itself does not provide for some preliminary forecast of oral question; it is true that the presence of this in the school domain itself or the way in which the learning process is carried out and that it is usually also harmonised within the teaching choir. An important and crucial topic, our triangle could be said – teachers, leadership, parents. This is something that is probably the most crucial to our society at the beginning of your question; and, above all, trust in the school system. I must say that despite all the research that we have now received and that we have as our mirror of the operation and achievement of the quality of the school system, I believe, however, that this triangle works well. Of course, over and over again, despite changes in social conditions, including the environment in which the school is located, even the different ideas of all the stakeholders entering schools are constantly under scrutiny. Above all, the teacher is the one who, with his professional spirit and mission, can certainly guide this relationship in the most responsive and professional way. And it is right that we trust him in this; that we also help him, either as parents or as a wider society, as well as us in particular with the school system. And so I conclude with your challenge of how to gain or restore that key authority of the teacher. To this end, we have a series of projects, so-called professionalizations, that help the teacher not only to strengthen competences, but also to enable such relations to be more professional and especially good to society, and first to the child, to guide forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u198	I need to give the secretary a chance to tell me more about the status of the athlete. I think this is an extremely interesting debate and topic. Let me get to the point where not only is this being used, but we also have another problem. Here I return to our professors and schoolchildren, where the teachers of sports education, sometimes there is such an extreme when certain exercises can no longer be done as they were in the old days, because immediately there are some so-called abuses and all together. And here's where parents get into their game again. Once again, I appeal to you, Minister, that it is necessary to reinstate the validity of teachers and professors and that parents need to know where our borders are. I take it from myself, and I'm doing a lot of work at home, I have to admit. But it is a fact that people, as you yourself said, have gone too far with this change of system, thinking and understanding of democracy. I think it's too far to go to school. We're doing ourselves a bad favor as parents. Unfortunately, it's hard for schoolchildren to resist. It is important to give great emphasis to getting the teacher back into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I think that we must all do everything and work to ensure that the teacher does indeed have his own autonomous expertise and that he can and can have all the support of the environment so that he can guide the good, quality development of our children and, above all, that he perfectly tolerates knowledge. I trust our teachers, teachers, principals, directors, directors, directors. As research now shows, knowledge is real; it is true that it is always an opportunity for improvement. And here they include relationships — generally in society and to each other; as parents, as school leaders, as well as teachers and teachers. With regard to sport, I would explain that a student who is registered in a national sport relationship and who competes in official competition systems of national trade unions is also one who can then gain special status. Of course, these conditions are then defined as a way of implementing this status within the school itself, as schools also differ after the implementation of the programmes – after the complexity of the programmes, even after the location of the programmes, including educational content that may vary. I'm talking about different programs, especially at the secondary level or higher. Therefore, it is also appropriate that the school define within the content how it then requires this prospective athlete to fulfil his learning obligation. We must say that so far, especially in those departments that are specialised, and those schools that have great hearing to promote sports activities, especially the development of perspective athletes, this is done in a coordinated manner. But if there are any cases and situations where you notice that this is not the case, then it is only right to warn us about this, especially when it comes to young people who have their future and where we see our great sports hopes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Vice President. On the basis of the call from the Regional Development Agency of Gorenjska, Minister of State, Mr Gorenjska prepared a draft agreement for the development of the region of Gorenje 2016-2019, which, following confirmation by the Development Council of the region of Gorenje, was forwarded to your Ministry on 15 December last year. Most important are regional projects, during which he received the most points of the project Sustainable mobility and the network of cycling routes, as he was supported by the main municipalities of Gorenje. In February 2016, your ministry launched a process of coordination with the departments, also in the presence of the Government Development Service and European Cohesion Policy. For months there was no feedback on what was going on; the municipalities were informed by the Regional Development Agency with the accompanying information only in May that nothing was known. At a meeting of the Council of the region on 14 June this year, a new requirement was presented by the Ministry that only municipalities selected for the preparation of transport strategies could participate in the project. On 16 October 2015, the Ministry of Infrastructure published an invitation to tender in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia to co-finance the development of the integrated transport strategy of the municipalities. This invitation was made in such a way that all the congregations could not apply for the invitation to tender; for example, all the municipalities without urban settlements were expelled. If they were to join other congregations that met the conditions, they would have worsened the conditions of their application, so that it was not possible, since other congregations did not want to be with congregations that did not have urban settlements. As a result of this condition, Goreńska cannot develop a network of mountain cycling routes at all, but only individual pieces of the network across selected municipalities. The latter is no longer a meaningful project; the region would certainly have decided differently when ranking projects, if these and similar conditions were not known only later, subsequently. It is most surprising that this route was automatically approved and included in the network of cycling routes on the basis of this invitation to tender, which you published last year at MGRT and then published by the BSC. Mr. Minister, my main question is: Are there any clear criteria for such decisions that would apply to all stakeholders in the same way? So again we make differences between rural and urban communities, or even better, we again make differences between municipalities that do not have some city headquarters and the municipalities that they have. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u204	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Member, thank you for the question. I have to say, if I get the kind of question that you've just said, I could answer you more, but I'm still going to try to answer the maximum. The scope of the project Sustainable mobility and the network of cycling routes falls within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure, and I will reply hereafter only from the point of view of tourism under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. With regard to the call for proposals you spoke about, I must say the following: that we are responsible for the agreement for the development of the regions, that we have called on the regions to prepare for the three regional projects. From the region mentioned above, one of these projects is yours. The problem in the new perspective is that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology does not have the resources in the way it used to be; and we need to agree with all these projects with the other ministries. In your case, however, this matter is agreed upon, at least in some large part, with the Ministry of Infrastructure. We are preparing government material for the whole of Slovenia for an agreement for the development of regions where we are trying and we will try to get as many of these projects in. But this is a specific project that I have to say this about. With regard to cycling routes, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology signed a contract with the University of Ljubljana in 2015 under the 2015 Objective Research Programme on co-financing and implementation of the research project entitled Modelling the linkage of the whole of Slovenia to cycling routes. Within the framework of the University of Ljubljana, he is a research project carried out by the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy. As a tourist offer, cycling has always been marketed and marketed in a very partial way, as a tourist visiting Slovenia cannot get a comprehensive overview of the established cycling routes and connections in Slovenia. While it is not possible to get what already exists, let alone upgrade these projects with what you have said. Since Slovenia does not yet have a comprehensive cycling network, nor does it have a single database of cycling routes and connections, the aim of the task, taking into account the needs and wishes of local communities, is to establish a comprehensive and related cycling network that will meet spatial placement criteria as well as the latest results of transport planning. The aim of this project is to provide the basis for connecting all cycling routes across Slovenia with a view to creating a healthy green environment for tourists and the local population. The value of this project is €50,000, of which the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will finance half and the rest of the Public Agency for Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 2017. However, I believe that in the next relatively short period, we will bring our part of the task, the agreement for the development of the region, together with the Ministry of Infrastructure and with the region you spoke about, to the point that this project will be included to the fullest extent possible in this agreement for the development of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u206	Thank you for that part of the answer, Minister. You yourself mentioned that you called last year because you do not have money; I was also at a meeting before parliamentary holidays with Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar. I don't think she was a secretary of state at your place at the time. She said you just made a selection of projects, three projects for the region. Of course, we did not come together, one of these projects for the Goran region is this cycling network that we are talking about. Since I'm the principle of this subject, I'm interested in: How far are these projects, or how far are you in agreement with individual ministries of finance? Because if I understand correctly at the time, you will then try to obtain funding from the ministries that cover these various projects. Unfortunately, I did ask the Minister of Infrastructure at a regular meeting last month about the placement of cycling routes in space. There is probably no Member here who would not agree that we must get those weakest road users off the road. And cyclists are certainly one of the weaker players in transport compared to other factors and factors. And unfortunately, in the place where I live, it is said in the Poljanska Valley, we have been trying for a long time to make a cycling trip from Žirov to Škofje Loka; but the problem is on the tender. Škofja Loka is a municipality with a larger city, and Jiri is a municipality with a larger city; in the midst of it is the municipality from which I come, the municipality of Gorenja Vas – Poljane, which does not have a larger city settlement. That's why it's a problem to apply because it can't. And if we applied together, that means you just lose so many points so you don't come along. And I am interested, although this is probably also a question for the Minister of Infrastructure: Will you at least do something in this direction?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u208	Dear Member, I must first say that I deeply agree with the fact that something has to be done here to make us fall behind; we need cycling routes for a number of reasons. If I give two main reasons, the first is the security you mentioned, and on the other hand the need to complement the tourist offer of Slovenia. In Slovenia we also need a Slovenian cycling cross, not just a highway and a railway. And until it is possible from any direction or from the main direction of the border with Slovenia to come to our capital on the cycling track, which will be separated from the road, we will not develop in this area for so long. They definitely hold all the concerns you mentioned. I can say that we will endeavour to make every effort, in the framework of this agreement for the development of the regions, also in the field of cycling routes for those regions that have made this point. Of course, you have to understand that the situation today is different, we have previously had direct access to our ministry with about 600 million; but now I can say that at this point in time, with an agreement on the development of the regions, I will give an assessment, over 100 million. I am talking about the whole of Slovenia, and not about the bike paths; we know that we will not come to this extent that we had; but I believe we have quite a few options to take a few steps forward. I can only say once again that we will do everything, including us as the Ministry of Economy, to support these projects wherever there is an initiative for cycling on the ground. One is by supporting them morally and verbally; the other is, if we also find practical, material possibilities for this matter to be realized. In your case, we will undoubtedly work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Since the Minister is absent, please also identify yourself until the way in which the answer is made. Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will ask the Minister in the absence of a question about, I would hope to say, some practices that prove to be an anomaly in the legislative process we have witnessed recently. I'll illustrate two cases. The first illustration is a statement by the MEP of the Modern Centre Party from the last meeting of the Committee on the Economy, quote: "The Minister has successfully skipped all administrative obstacles, including legal and environmental ones." The second illustration is the presentation by the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Public Administration, who taught me at the previous meeting of the National Assembly that he was in the United States on a non-political visit. And then, apparently, as a politician, he wrote an electronic letter to the Minister of Infrastructure to immediately start amending legislation to facilitate the arrival of Ubra in Slovenia. You could talk here if you had more time, including lobbying a tobacco lobby that would write us an anti-tobacco law, a pharmaceutical lobby via the American Chamber of Commerce and so on. Unfortunately, there is also some kind of, mildly speaking, unusual practice in this envisaged investment in Styria, which, of course, is welcomed by all Members in the light of this provision of new jobs; however, we cannot welcome the way this is being tried. We have existing legislation, and we also have a law adopted by the government of Alenka Bratušek on development assistance to the region in which this could be included. We also have legislation on decommissioning. The problem is that somehow it's becoming increasingly clear that someone who wants to do something is actually going to write us legislation. Or he put a great deal of pressure on us to adopt just as much legislation as he does. And this is some very serious anomaly in the legislative process. And since I can say that I have already given up on some of the other lawyers in this government – by the way, this coalition has parties from three presidents, in two parties are presidents of the lawyer – I refer this question to Mr Klemenčič, who has come to this government as a lawyer, I hope to say, of all the lawyers and lawyers in this government with the highest moral authority. Please answer my question in oral form the following time: Does he not find such practices to be excessively anomalous in the legislative process? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u211	Thank you very much. You will receive an answer at the next meeting. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Minister, Minister! This time my oral question goes a little wider than Maribor and the surrounding area. I'm asking you about Petrol. 15. 12. In 2016, an order was issued for the initiation of the bankruptcy proceedings against Petrol. Petrol is the largest Slovenian energy company. It owns about two-thirds of all petrol services in the country, the Koper oil derivative warehouse, a significant share of the Gen-I electricity dealer and about 40% of the Geoplin, our largest domestic gas dealer. In the first nine months, i.e. in the first three quarters of this year, profit increased by about 20% compared to the same period last year, to over €57 million. That is why the news, the potential possibility or threat of bankruptcy of many, as well as of me, surprised me and not only apprehensive, but also scared me a little. The positive, profitable and stable operation of Petrol has an important impact on the state or functioning of the state budget through the collection of excise duties; through continuous and continuous supply of oil derivatives and, in addition, an extraordinary impact on the functioning of the Slovenian economy. However, it is undeniable, dear colleagues and colleagues, that Petrol, along with Franciscan petrol services, employs over 4,000 people, our citizens and our citizens. Dear Minister, I ask you: What is your assessment of the potential, the danger, the threat of bankruptcy over a society as important as Petrol? Do you have any information, or is Petrol and, as a result, we are at serious risk of losing the budget without the collection of excise duties, that is, a significant share of the financial resources, a fuel-free economy and a job-free economy? How do you control not only Petrol, within the given options, the powers you or the government, but all state silver — all companies that contribute a significant share of the funds to the country and are increasingly trivial to our economy?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u214	Dear Presidents; Members and Members of Parliament! With one sentence, I can answer the main question that it seems very unlikely that what you asked me would come. But in spite of everything. The question of the possible start of bankruptcy proceedings against Petrol, d.d., and the possible consequences that might have in the field of energy and the economy in Slovenia, is a hypothetical question to which it will be difficult to answer objectively and objectively. I would like to point out that Petrol, d.d., as the custodian of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia is managed by the Slovenian State Holding Company, which is also responsible for the ongoing monitoring of the results of the operation and the assessment of possible bankruptcy risks. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we have a publicly available rating of Petrol based on a methodology of C2 which means that the company operates on average. In the future, it has a stable business forecast, and it may have liquidity problems, but it achieves a higher average return. From publicly available business results for Petrol, d.d., in 2015 it is apparent that the company realised EUR 3.1 billion of annual income, generated EUR 30 million of net profit. We further note that this is a moderate to largely indebted economic company, which has a ratio of EBITDA’s hairy cash flow to debt of 4.7 million and a share of capital in assets of 34,3 %. Petrol at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in the past has not been treated as an undertaking in difficulty or in a restructuring programme; we conclude from these data that the company is not at risk of bankruptcy. However, bankruptcy proceedings can be introduced in the light of the legal provisions of the various creditors; we believe that the management of the company and the owners have more options to resolve a possible poor financial situation that I do not think is. I am convinced that under the capital investment management system of the Republic of Slovenia, which is granted SDH under the Law on Slovenian State Holding, the Republic of Slovenia has sufficient mechanisms to prevent circumstances that could lead to the possible bankruptcy of Petrol. As an extreme option to prevent any unwanted scenario mentioned here, the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies is also a problem; but I can distribute in this direction hypothetically, so I would not like to. I believe that this can be particularly damaging to a large and successful Slovenian oil company. If there were any problems in this direction, we could also help with this tool. I believe that Petrol operators from the State in SDH are sufficiently informed about the situation of this company and that at the moment I do not see the approximately bankruptcy of this large oil company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u215	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac, who is absent; therefore, I ask you to define yourself to the way in which the answer is addressed. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u216	Thank you. Good evening to both ministers and ministers and other heroes here! I'll wait for a written answer. My question is about the unilateral proclamation of Croatia's exclusive economic zone. It is clear that this is about unilateral rights of exploitation of the fish fund and potential oil resources, if not for anything else. In this regard, I am interested in: Has our government officially received this announcement? What is its response, or what measures — I know that this is secret diplomacy, but whatever it is — have you prepared? It is mainly about reporting to the media, which, in accordance with the instructions of the Croatian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is intended to try to convince the members of the European Union of the urgency of the said act. Personally, I believe that our position to do so must be clearly presented and defended; at the same time, I would like to seek out my allies among the members of the European Union. I also ask for an opinion on the assessment that our government has not responded to the said announcement by Croatia. According to Dr. Pavliha, our expert in this field, who wrote in his opinion that Slovenia should respond immediately with an appropriate diplomatic response, because otherwise they should quietly communicate the approval of this situation. I am interested in our relationship with the Government and the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u217	Thank you very much. You will receive the answer in writing. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, as you know, I have asked you an oral question a few months ago on the subject of the operation of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, in the case of Slovenian farms, especially in Slovenska gorica, where the area of farms is small, where farmers rent land from the Fund. I was talking about one of the farms, then I gave you calculations, 800 euros was paid by the farmer in 2008, today paying a thousand 300 euros in rent for the same land. On the other hand, we have an example in the Slovenian Mountains, where we have a whole range of unprocessed areas, which are owned by the Fund, where everything has healed, now we have an example near the Blagus Lake, where some land is from the Treasure. In fact, the Ministry of the Environment, which once belonged to your department, does not replace this land, has been taken from someone. The land they once took is now unprocessed, standing. Thirdly, under the new legislation, you will certainly enter border areas or even all of Slovenia, where the Fund will have a preliminary right to purchase. The policy of the Fund is a policy that lives one's life, imaginary, away from reality. I come from the border area of the Slovenian Mountains, on the other hand we look at Austrian wine roads, we look at the incentives of the country, we look at help for farmers, we look at help for vineyards. As such, we do not have such assistance to develop competitiveness in order to develop larger areas, which in our own words means that the structure of these farms would increase. On the other hand, the state of the Fund could have abolished it, moved it to municipalities, you as a minister could have suggested to the Ministry of Finance to arrange a scheme of credits for small farms, to buy land and to increase these agricultural areas and to become family farms of competitiveness in Slovenia. This seems to me like a Member of Parliament's first important question. So my question is: Are you planning to do something about the reorganisation of the Agricultural Land Fund? Do you think such an organisation of the Agricultural Land Fund is good for the development of Slovenian agriculture? Do you think that Slovenian agriculture will become self-sufficient with this and that at least in some parts of the country it will become competitive? Will this competitiveness enable us to develop Slovenian greenery, especially Slovenian cereals? The biggest disaster is happening, especially in the Slovenian Gorica, and I see the abandonment of cattle, constantly more small. Where cattle are, as we know, we have greater added value. Here's what I'm asking you: Are you going to reorganize or abolish the Agricultural Land Fund in any way? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u220	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Mr Breznik, Commissioner, thank you for the current question. I will answer some questions, but when I run out of time, please allow me to answer more with a further question. You've found out correctly that he's with 1. 7. The structure of the Fund has already partially changed since forestry has already been transferred. This has also been adapted by the organization of the fund itself. If you're interested, I can tell you what that means. Many also asked: Will there be enough income now that the Fund has changed its function, that there is no more forestry work? I would like to say that the Fund still manages 73,000 608 hectares of land; of this, it is poor 60,000 hectares of agricultural land. The annual rent that the Fund collects is about seven and a half million euros from agricultural organisations and individual farms. In some debate, you mentioned a brief amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act, and I would like to tell you the following. In no case will this change go to the government unless there is a full consensus of NGOs, as this change is due to the initiative of agricultural organisations, NGOs living at the Slovenian border. However, if NGOs think that this change is unacceptable to them or that they do not want to pursue the objective, the ministry will not insist on this change. However, what is important is that I would like to say that, at this point in time, professional bases are being prepared – the material will probably be delivered to us by the end of January – which will represent a general change in agricultural policy because the current land policy is outdated. A special expert group, composed of professors from agricultural and legal professions, is preparing an overview of best practices within the European Union, because there you can see what is allowed within the common European legal order; and this will also be the basis for correction of Slovenian agricultural policy, through the Agricultural Lands Act and also the Agricultural Lands Fund Act. At this point, however, we see that four guidelines have been crystallized. The first is to further accelerate the design and development of family farms, in particular young farmers; the second is to round up agricultural holdings; the third is to purchase agricultural land in vulnerable areas and to make it available to Slovenian agricultural economies; the fourth is to prevent speculative purchases. Maybe two more new information. I had representatives from the Association of Tourist Farms today. It's something like a relationship on the Austrian side. At the moment, family farms with the sign tourist farm in Slovenia are already about 800. I've been informed that reality is still growing. Last year, the realisation was higher than the general tourist destination in Slovenia. I think the growth was 10%. Similar data are expected this year. Further information may also be available. Last week, I was together with representatives of all Slovenian associations of winegrowers, the smaller ones organised through the Association of Family Winegrowers and VINIS; and the larger ones, which are combined through wine cellars. Here are the following information, demand is rising, and at this point many producers are facing a dilemma that they cannot even get enough grapes, so the buying-in prices of grapes are rising and exports are increasing. However, we have also aligned the strategy with them for the next five years. It may also be possible to discuss this in the Committee on Agriculture, because this is also a success story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, are you requesting a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Minister, of course, I will ask you a further question so that you can answer me. I also agree that agricultural land cannot be subject to manipulation. On one occasion, your client’s predecessor spoke in a kind of earth to the one who cultivates it; therefore, we must follow it. The Millennium in Slovenia was governed by the rule of family farms. Tradition, tradition was gravely interrupted after World War II; it is necessary to return to our roots of agriculture. Most Slovenian farms do not allow two or three families to survive because of their structure, which is small; or old parents, some younger and medium-sized family on a farm, which allows for, say, a farm in neighbouring Austria. And that's what I'm talking about. As Minister, you need to provide policies that will help raise the basic problem of Slovenian agriculture, and these are mostly small farms that are hard to survive. Most farms cannot specialize and there is additional activity on the farm. It's a lost policy. It is not the purpose of the country, Minister, here is your big mistake, to trade and sell agricultural land at all, because the Ljubljana bureaucrats have never done anything good for the Slovenian farmer. It is important, however, that at this moment, because we have more than New Ljubljana Bank, more than 4 billion money that they cannot even use through quality credits to enable farmers in areas, especially at the border, to buy this farm. If they buy, this means that there will be greater motivation for work and that they can become competitive and will not be a problem with redemption in order to buy this land from foreigners. It's very simple. And the second part of the answer that you've already tried to strut, speculation, but whoever doesn't process this land, must be highly taxed; but he who processes it doesn't have these taxes. We know taxes that affect that. This is a very simple intervention. Practices in comparable countries are essentially hand-held solutions. So I want you to answer me: What future do you see as determining this agricultural policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u224	Maybe, Mr. Ambassador, just a little bit of math. At the moment, there are agricultural areas of interest to farmers – these are agricultural areas, they are not interested in other areas – about 24,000 hectares; the poor half of them are already in farm treatment and the good half are in processing in other legal forms. If all the rest of the land that was treated in other legal forms were distributed among Slovenian farmers, the average size of the Slovenian farm from 6.8 would change to 7.1 hectares; therefore, there would be no significant difference. The future of the Fund I see is the next. First time. The purchase of land where they are naturally limited is an example of water protection areas and perhaps some other habitat areas where the farmer himself is a difficult farm and also wants to actually have this possibility of sale at his disposal. This task can be undertaken by the State and then carried on under known conditions. In water protection areas, say we have a thousand 600 hectares of water protection area of the first order, we would continue to process as an ecological regime. We have several other regimes, in particular habitat regimes, where ownership is even more burdensome than profitable activity. Another time. We would like to establish a similar system, as it is now highlighted, but it does not yet work in some other countries. And this is that if the farm gets in trouble, it is also possible to obtain liquid assets by temporarily selling its land to the state fund, which will give this farm land back immediately; and then by some arrangement that may be five years or ten years old, it can otherwise agree on a slow buy-back option, because it is expected that then the farm can also work in some way. Third time. In some cases, we need the opportunity for the country to act against speculative measures or actions in the area of sale or purchase of agricultural land, as well as to see the role of the Fund as a manager. Maybe another piece of information. If we look at the situation today now or perhaps ten years ago, the amount of farmed land is indeed significantly lower and we would like to reduce it further. These days, the government will take a special measure for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia; and this is a measure which will provide an additional resource to the farmer, irreparable for agricultural land to be eligible; the contrary to the undertaking, this land will also be used for a longer period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of Defence Andreja Katič and the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Labour Inspectorate, under the supervision of the Association of Professional Firefighters of Slovenia, found that the directors of certain fire departmentes were illegally paid allowances for permanent readiness and contributions of compulsory supplementary pension insurance, even though these are rights belonging solely to professional firefighters. Some directors have ordered the additions themselves, and in other cases they have been assisted by the heads of the boards of institutions. Six of the 14 directors of the Fire Departments are aimed at unlawfully acquiring these rights of employees in the post of Commander Director, which is not foreseen by the normative acts at all. In particular, the case of Janko Požežnik, Director of the Celje Office, who had in the contract illegal supplements for permanent preparedness, regular performance, working performance for increased labour and sales of goods and services on the market and so on, was highlighted here. The contract also guaranteed him the right to life and accident insurance and the right to health review once a year in the institution of his own choosing. Next, after the contract he had the right to receive compensation three months after the end of his term of office. The Labour Inspectorate has requested the competent authorities to exclude all illegal privileges from the contract and to return all unlawful and unjustifiable allowances received. This year, the City Council of the Municipality of Celje reappointed Požežnik as Director after the end of its term of office, and the President of the Council of the Institute signed with him a contract of employment for the Director of the Commander, who does not really exist in the normative acts. The firefighter does not actually fulfil the conditions for the Commander's post because he does not have a professional education, and the post of Commander is already systematised and occupied. The labour inspection has not yet been decided on the sickness allowance and the contribution for occupational pension insurance. But what is obvious here and what I want to point out is that, in the cooperation of the institutions' councils, the violators illegally used public funds. Their operation not only harms public money but also damages the motivation of professional firefighters, who are supposed to be led by these people, as well as voluntary firefighters who do their work without pay. And here it shows that it was not a single violation, but a systemic deviation, which, Madam Minister, is constantly overreacting at the Ministry; you did not cook it. Anyway, I want to know: How are you gonna fix this? How will you act against violators, directors and members of the boards of institutions? How will you prevent this from happening in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Andreja Katič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u228	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, thank you for asking! Maybe just a little clarification about jurisdiction. The Ministry of Defence or the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection and Resolution is the department responsible for the systematic regulation of the field of firefighting, as well as for the participation in collective bargaining in the field of professional firefighting and participation in the classification of professional firefighters in the pay system. However, in order to organise, operate and operate public economic institutions, the founders or co-founders are responsible, the congregation is called. At the Ministry, we took note of the findings of the draft minutes of the Slovenian Public Sector Inspectorate, as well as the measures ordered by the Inspectorate. And on the basis of this Inspectorate's request, the Ministry of Defence or our Inspectorate for Protection from Natural and Other Accidents between 15 and 17. 11. 2016 also used exceptional inspections in three professional fire brigades. According to our data, we have errors in three professional fire brigades, namely Koper, Celje and Krško. These controls showed that the said directors, the commanders, had such a name, did not meet the prescribed conditions for carrying out these tasks as they do not have the acquired profession of firefighter. The inspectorate therefore ordered the directors of the commanders to prohibit the performance of operational tasks in firefighting until the conditions were met; however, they may perform tasks as directors. By mid-January 2017, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia will carry out extraordinary audits in all other 11 professional firefighting units. If irregularities are detected here too, the inspectorate will act in accordance with its powers. Nevertheless, we also met last week as the Ministry of Defence; I myself signed a letter informing all the mayors and all the saints of these institutions that they should pay particular attention to the findings of the inspections, both ours and the public administrations, and that they should also, within their competences, correct everything that has been found. As a systemic measure; the new Firearms Act is in its final stages. I think that in the coming year, despite the fact that it is not part of the normative programme, we will be able to coordinate with all the entities operating in the field of firefighting in order to put the law into practice. Particular attention will also be paid to all articles relating to professional firefighting; in this context, it will also focus on the conditions for the recruitment of individual jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Koprivnikar, you too.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u230	Thank you, Chairman. Member of the Commission, if I may add briefly to what the colleague of the Minister has said. The Directors are not entitled to a permanent readiness allowance, only in exceptional cases where they also work in their basic profession. Here you have already found that there is a problem, whether they even meet the conditions for working in the basic profession; therefore this is not the case. The Public Sector Inspectorate, as was said, carried out inspections – Celje, Krško, Koper. He reviewed systemization, employment records, correctness of payments of allowances and so on and found a type of irregularities. He has also drawn up draft inspection decisions, but the measures are not yet definitive, as they are still, above all, in Celje and Krška, facing a complaint from the supervisors. Otherwise, we expect this procedure to be completed, and the Inspector will also say those measures that are necessary in such a case, which will pay back unjustifiably the salaries received. However, as regards systemic measures for the future, this has already been discussed by a colleague of the Minister. For our part, we also strive to work as closely as possible through the inspection board with various inspections, to publish data on salaries in depersonalised form, but also with additions and everything that belongs to it. In this way, we are also trying to prevent such irregularities, if they prove to be definitive, in fact they would no longer come; not that we must then sanction them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Dark and the Minister of the Interior of Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u232	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, there are no others; on 16 November, the transmission III event took place, which is an annual expert meeting aimed at bringing together actors and actors in the field of transgenderness. One of the main themes of this meeting was legal regulation in Slovenia and human rights violations of transsexuals; with emphasis on the legal recognition of sex. Legal recognition of sex is a process of changing the name and sex data in official documents and registers in order to recognise the sexual identity of an individual or an individual. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted the so-called Resolution 2048 in July 2015. [[2015]] which discusses discrimination against transsexuals in Europe and in which it calls on the Member States of the European Union to regulate this area. The current regulation of legal recognition of sex in Slovenia is not in line with the above-mentioned calls of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and violates at least five human rights; namely the right to inviolability of human body and mental integrity, the right to personal dignity, the right to safety, health and privacy. Due to inadequate legal recognition of sex, such persons are disabled or at least severely hampered by daily tasks such as raising the recommended shipment, opening a bank account or simply using a public transport ticket. So many of these people often face situations where their sexual identity and sexual expression do not match the sex on personal and other documents. As a result, they may be exposed to false documents and are forced to reveal their sexual identity, even though they may not want to do so in a given situation. This violates their human right to privacy and, of course, also leads to discrimination and violence. Certificates, diplomas, other documents on completed education and past employment, which do not reflect the gender that they own and, as it is said, live in, are often grounds for non-involvement in education and unemployment. Among other things, it follows from civil society's comments that when attempts are made to refer the legal recognition of the sex in Slovenia, the ministries receive vague answers and the competence to regulate the legal recognition of the sex to the ministry is placed on one another. So I am addressing both ministers with simple, clear questions: Which ministry is actually responsible for regulating the area of legal recognition of sex in Slovenia? How and until when will the government align the process of legal recognition of sex with the previously mentioned Council of Europe resolution and, above all, human rights standards?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Member, for asking. I'll tell you what's under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. It must be said that the legal regulation of the status and the issue of human rights violations of transsexuals is an area for which various departments are actually responsible – the Ministry of Interior, Justice, our ministry and the Ministry of Health as well; each within its powers. As far as the process of legal recognition of sex itself is concerned, what was at the heart of the issue is, after what I have written down — I am sorry that there is no minister — as set out in Article 37 of the Regulation on the Enforcement of the Law on the Mother Registry, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, which requires confirmation by the competent health institution or doctor for the issue of a decision to change sex. During the conclusion of the expert meeting of Transmission III, it was pointed out that legal recognition of sex should be based solely on the identification of persons and without the condition of obtaining medical diagnosis or diagnosis of mental health disorders; at the same time, a complete separation of the formal procedure for regulating the legal recognition of sex from medical treatment should be carried out. Although the process of legal recognition of sex is within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, our Ministry of Services believes that the condition of the medical certificate should be scrutinised and further solutions should be properly aligned with Council of Europe Resolution 2048 on discrimination against transsexuals in Europe. The Ministry is aware that discrimination against transsexuals takes place in various areas of their private and public life: employment, education, health, public space, access to goods and services. In particular, transsexuals are victims of crimes and hatred and targets of hate speech. Research also shows that the attitude towards transsexuals is much more negative than that of same-sex persons. According to the report of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights Protection against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and sex characterism in the EU, 2015, Slovenia is one of the Member States where the prohibition of discrimination based on transgenderity falls under the so-called general prohibition of discrimination without extreme gender and sexual orientation. The Ministry also took those arguments into account in the preparation of the Law on Protection against Discrimination, which is in force with 24. 5. 2016, which explicitly refers to sexual identity and sexual expression in Article 1, as a personal circumstance which prohibits any form of discrimination in various areas of social life, in the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in the exercise of rights and obligations and in other legal relations in the political, economic, social, cultural, civil or other fields. This issue does not concern a large number of persons; however, it is important because the basic guiding principle of human rights is that these are universal and, of course, must be guaranteed to all. I will leave time for an answer if the Minister of the Interior responds to the recognition itself, which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I got a message, Secretary General Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich announced that, for health reasons, the Minister of the Interior was absent at the moment and apologized. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister for Culture Anton Persak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, chairman. My question relates to the public call for co-financing of the programme content of the media, which was published by the Ministry of Culture in November. This call has been virtually unchanged for about a decade, although the media landscape has changed significantly in the meantime. My main question to you, Mr. Minister, is: Does the Ministry of Culture plan to update this invitation in any way in order to better suit the current state of affairs? Firstly, the Ministry publishes the same call for commercial media on the one hand and for independent media on the other; I am not just talking about online portals and new media, but also other independent media. The difference between them is that commercial media offer payable content, while independent media offer free content that is accessible to everyone and therefore actually represents public good. It is discriminatory that both are suppressed in the same tender criteria. The difference between them is already that while commercial media are easily showing rather high costs because money is generated by advertising, sales and so on and because they have employees; this is significantly more difficult for independent media. Therefore, we think it would be fair for these two types of media to be distinguished in the invitation to tender. The results of the calls for proposals in recent years show that, for the first time, individual political parties, such as Democracy, have actually been financed in the same way as the media, which is supposed to be in the public interest. Secondly, the distribution of funds is influenced by the political affiliation of the media. Thirdly, that a large proportion of the funds are received by local media, which, by their influence and quality, often do not contribute significantly to the objectives set out in this call for proposals. So my third question is: Would it not make sense to consider three separate calls – for commercial media, for local media and for independent media – while also distinguishing between what content is available to citizens free of charge and which are not? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Anton Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u238	First of all, it must be said that this call is being made on the basis of the Media Act, which, unfortunately, has not changed in these types of content for a very good decade. Of course, calls are generally made on the basis of provisions defining public interest; you know, like everyone else, that funding from the budget has entered into the law under the so-called political pluralisation of the media. The Ministry is aware of the viability of certain legal provisions, in particular the definition of public interest, and is therefore considering new solutions, which are also the subject of public debate and coordination between stakeholders at this time. These reflections are already covered by the Media Strategy proposal, which will provide a strategic basis for a comprehensive revision of media legislation and, of course, for the reform of the state aid system in the field of media. As it is said, the Ministry has issued a call under Articles 4 and 4a of the Media Act, but I must point out that the call is designed in such a way that this support is not intended for the media as well as for the media, regardless of what kind it is, but is intended to support certain programme content of the media, in accordance with the division into two areas; and those content that is not such as to generate profit or commercialisation. But it is about ensuring public interest, such as in at least two media cases, as you know, local news. In the area of tendering, it is intended to co-finance all remaining media projects, which are generally supporting content that is becoming increasingly deficient. [[Incomprehensible]] As far as your specific questions are concerned, I have already said that we do not actually finance the media as a medium, to have a criterion or a political definition or any other; we do finance content or projects that provide plurality; but not in terms of political content, democracy, the availability of information that, as I say, is becoming scarce; whether it be in print media, radio, television programmes or electronic publications. As far as the future is concerned, we, as stated in the strategy, foresee a strengthened path to these types of orientations, say that funding should be strongly targeted to support information on local developments, to support or encourage specific news projects, including research journalism, and to encourage media to address deficits such as cultural criticism, general education content, civic content and so on. That much is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, please, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u240	Thank you. This was sort of a description of what this call is financing and how the vats are handled. My criticism, expressed in the question, is that on the one hand there are commercial companies, a real media house financed by the same call as, say, independent media dealing with research journalism, culture and so on. The problem is that some offer payable content, others are free to have one employed person and survive by selling, others not. In this respect, we are already talking about discrimination here. And that's why I'm really interested in: Are you thinking of renewing this invitation in any way? Would you consider it an acceptable idea to put the invitation to tender in three parts? With one part we finance paying media, commercial media; with the other part local media; with the third part independent news portals, research portals, cultural portals and so on. Let's do this segment because it's actually a lot of different media that we're hard to deal with with with with the same criteria. That is what I would ask if you could give me the most concrete answer possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Minister Anton Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u242	What you have highlighted in the second part of your additional question is, as it were, the direction that is enshrined in the strategy. This distinction, the question of independence, probably cannot be separated in this way by independence and commerciality. Secondly, for example, the media, which is currently being put on the market primarily in digital form as free media, with free access, and commercially, this separation is possible – I must say that I am now answering more ad hoc – is worth considering. However, another issue is related to this, this is the question of how many media that appear in the digital environment also convey content that could have been produced elsewhere. For if a medium, even if it is in a digital environment, offers truly original content free of charge, it may or may not be in many cases the question of another interest and some other support that these content is generated. This definition may also raise a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, is he all right? Thank you very much. We have exhausted a list of 41 questions from Members and Members. I thank the ministers and ministers for their answers. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 13 December, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow 15 minutes after the 40th extraordinary meeting, which will begin at 9 a.m. Have a nice night!
