ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mrs Marija Bacič, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mr Primož Hainz from 6 p.m., Dr Milan Brglez from 15.30 to 18 p.m., mag. Anže Logar, Mr Jan Škoberne, Mr Tillen Bozič, Mr Igor Zorčič from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., Mr Marian Dolinšek from 5 p.m. and Mr Mitja Horvat to 3 p.m. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Parliament of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance at the 19th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. Before we move to the agenda for the meeting, I must inform you that Mr Josip Bajc, Member of the National Assembly, died in the period 1996–2000 and 2004–2008. I ask you to honor him with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ Praise him! We are moving on to the agenda of the 18th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 8 April 2016, with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the agenda of the 18th meeting of the National Assembly should be extended by 18th item, namely the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019. A Notice on the proposal for enlargement was received on Friday 15th. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of Does the representative of the enlargement proposer Mrs Urska Ban, President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy? Would you like a word from the government? Here you go, Dr. Dushan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u2	Your Honor! The provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act apply for the first time in Slovenia in 2016. Accordingly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall require the National Assembly not later than 20 days before the deadline for transmission of the stability programme to the European Commission, 30 days from now. 4. mediate the framework for the preparation of budgets, which must be decided 5 days before the deadline for the intervention of the European Commission's stability programme. The framework is prepared on the basis of Umar's spring forecast of 16 March this year and the deficit and debt report published by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The Framework shall be drawn up in the form of a decree of the National Assembly, establishing, in accordance with the law, the target balance and the maximum possible amount of expenditure of the State sector for each financial year and the target balance and the maximum possible amount of expenditure of each cash public funding for the next three years, i.e. for 2017, 2018 and 2019. Within this framework, the Republic of Slovenia complies with the requirements of the EU Council Directive on requirements relating to the budgetary frameworks of the Member States. The decision on the draft decision on the framework for the preparation of budgets at this meeting of the National Assembly is necessary to ensure compliance with Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act. In addition, the 2016 Stability Programme should also be adopted and forwarded to the European Commission under the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets. I therefore propose that the draft decree in the framework of the preparation of the budget in the sector be placed on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u3	Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. He's got the word "magic" first. Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will not support the proposal to extend the agenda in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We won't support him for a number of reasons. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the budget is one of the key and most important documents, both for the country and for the National Assembly and the decree on the framework for the preparation of budgets for the years 2017 to 2019, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is very flawed. One of the key reasons why we will not support the enlargement of the agenda is that the Government of Mir Cerar and the coalition are not capable of providing membership and mandate to members of this fiscal council, in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act. The fact is that the proposal proposed by the Government did not receive a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. The fact is that the Eurogroup, as the only European Union country in recent times, draws Slovenia's attention to the shortcomings and structural deficits in the budget. The fact is, however, that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as a parent of the working body, does not normally meet when the budget is in play, is not attended by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that such a relationship is incorrect and that the Minister of Finance should take the time to come to the Finance Committee and explain the reasons and reasons for this delay. As mentioned earlier, the state has no fiscal world. The material is insufficient; in fact, it is a material written on eight pages without key data, without key substantive text issues, which would be important for us to decide whether or not to support such a decree in the Group. We have already warned Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party about all these problems about the working body, and we have also raised a number of questions, which unfortunately there were no answers by the Secretary of State present.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u5	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministerial Assembly, colleagues and colleagues and all those who accompany this meeting of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will strongly oppose the enlargement of the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly by addressing the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019. On the home work body of the Committee on Finance, I have proposed that the point should be suspended in order to obtain the information that we have requested. See, in recent days, Minister Dr. Marble has had extremely important meetings with his colleague Schäublo in Germany, the previous days in the United States at the IMF and in fact in the area of structural deficit, we have one major confusion. On the one hand, we read a report on the country, Slovenia 2016, signed by the European Commission, where Slovenia predicts and treats it as the largest fiscal patient. Minister Marble says that the European methodology is not real. We don't know what you and your buddy Schäublo were talking about. And we don't know what the talks were like on this topic on the IMF. But we are setting up a framework for the country's budgets for the period 2017-2019. These are very serious documents required by the Fiscal Rule Act. But here we have an additional problem, and this very big problem, the Fiscal Rule Act is this moment of some kind of torso, is a law that is safely stored in the cabinet, probably in the Ministry of Finance, but not masters who would take into their hands this tool, which is called the Fiscal Rule Act, and use it. Who are these masters? These masters are the fiscal world. And we do not have a fiscal council, which, last but not least, would tell its opinion about this document, i.e. the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budgets for the period 2017 to 2019. Thus, in Novi Slovenija there are a number of questions to which we would like to receive relevant answers, of course, mainly by the Government and only then, let us say at the May meeting of the National Assembly, could be considered a proposal for that decree. This time, however, we will strongly oppose the enlargement of the agenda by addressing this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u7	The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable visitors, visitors, respectable assembly, respected government! We will also oppose the enlargement of this agenda item in the United Left. Why? What are we even talking about here? It's basically some kind of benign document with, like the predecessor said before me, a few pages of inconsequence. What's the budget? I say perfoxarically, the budget is a social contract, expressed in the universal equivalent. Or if I translate into a more understandable language, because we have here on the balcony of pensioners and pensioners, how we're going to live for the next three years. In short, until the end of this government and coalition, which is likely to remain pragmatically together, and a year after that. We had a very gruesome debate on the committee itself, where we asked for more information. The Minister of Finance was absent, MEPs and SD members were absent, who have a responsible minister for social transfer. Why? The Stability Programme, which is an annex here, allocates a social transfer in a row and a half in one sentence, which reads: "In the area of social transfers expenditure, measures will be maintained or new measures introduced to limit the further growth of funds for these purposes." Respectable visitors and visitors, what does that mean? That means they're gonna cut you like a sausage forward, and they're gonna put a knife in you. That's what we're talking about here. On the basis of this and such a drawback, we are expected to discuss budgets for the next three years. Because this is necessary — until when? Up to 30. 4. turn it over to Brussels. Whether we are the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia or we are any servants of anyone, plus that this timeline was also known. But if I touch the fiscal world, because here you had a coalition of fiscalists, with the exception of the United Left, and here I think a little bit of playing this topic, away from the contentivity, you could lock yourself in the basement, and mention your vocabulary, and build a fiscal world from your quotas. You have enough votes to do this. Even in some willing opposition. In the United Left, even if we go to cook yogurt, we do not go to cook it on the basis of such missing information. And that's basically what this is about. Therefore, the opposition from different parts requires more information. SMC said that they believe in this document, the budget is not a question of sacrality, the budget is a very serious matter. Thank you for your word. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u9	The word has magic. Mr Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u10	Thank you very much in my name and in our name a nice greeting to all. The fact is that the document we are currently discussing does not meet the legal requirements, as the Minister has said. The law stipulates that the document should be forwarded to the National Assembly and the Fiscal Council. On the question where the document was forwarded to the Fiscal Council, of course, we did not receive an answer on the committee. However, it is more important than whether the document will be adopted at this meeting or at the next meeting, the content of this document is important. I hope, fellows and colleagues, that you are aware of what you will confirm. The first in the history of the Slovenian state will determine the maximum amount of expenditure for three years in advance, not only for the state budget, but also for the municipalities, without knowing how the municipalities will be able to do so. We don't know what happens to social transfers, we don't even know what happens to pensions, and you don't have a problem confirming what's in front of you. The most interesting thing is that in the state budget you anticipate the level of expenditure for all three years, as long as your government lasts the same. In 2019, when another new government is expected to work, you are imposing a drastic reduction in its expenditure. And that's incorrect. It is unfair to leave the whole work of consolidating public finances to the next government. Improper and irresponsible. We will not support the enlargement proposal in our Group of Members, but once again the warning that you will read well what you will confirm with this document.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u11	The word Imadre. Simona Kustec Lipicer on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial team! We will vote in favour of the proposed extension of the agenda in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here we have been paying attention only to procedural reasons why we will confirm the enlargement of the agenda and we have found that it meets all the business conditions to confirm this extension of the agenda. This has also pre-prepared us to act or vote within the framework of the home Committee on Finance, which, according to my information, is 11 votes in favour and 4 votes against to confirm that this document, the proposal for a decree, is appropriate for further consideration in the National Assembly. All we have heard so far by colleagues from opposition parliamentary groups is more or less relevant to the substantive reasons why they are against the proposed motion for a decree. And I believe that tomorrow, when we consider this document, will be a suitable place for us to substantively exchange arguments for and against each other. Among other things, I believe that there are also political arguments and the reasons why we were able to confirm the Fiscal Rule Act first with a two-thirds majority, and then why we have not yet found enough strength and commitment to add this effort to call the fiscal world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u13	I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 44 votes in favour and 23 votes in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. In accordance with the meeting's timing, this meeting will be discussed by the assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 19. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference, and by the adoption of an extension. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 49 votes in favour and 7 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that the agenda for the 18th meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 33 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Alenka Smrkolj, Minister without a Resource, responsible for development and strategic projects and cohesion, mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, Mrs. Marija Milojka Celarc, Minister of Health, Mr. Hello Restoršek, Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs. Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence, and Mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior, from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which was not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, you have read seven ministers who are not present at the meeting of the National Assembly today. In view of the fact that there is another minister to be replaced and we have politely withdrawn the parliamentary issues against her, in fact, there are today half of the ministers of the government who are absent. Some of them are unjustifiably absent for reasons not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Given that we have adopted an annual work plan on 9 November 2015, with which we have ordered, when the meetings of the National Assembly and therefore the questions of Members will be held, it is very irresponsible that at least three or four ministers are unjustifiably absent, is said to be for non-business reasons. Given that the President of the Government has allowed an unjustified absence of his ministers, I propose that instead of unjustifiablely absent ministers in accordance with Article 235(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Government will answer questions for ministers. In accordance with this provision, the President of the Government shall have the right to represent the Government in all agenda items and also in committee meetings. In view of the unwarranted absences made with the knowledge of the President of the Government, I propose that this task be taken over by the President of the Government instead of his unjustifiably absent ministers. I hope you will put this proposal to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u15	I do not think I will put your proposal to the vote and also intend to proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The questions must be answered. The question will be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I therefore believe that this matter is resolved. However, I have called on the government several times to do everything to ensure that the ministers are present when the questions of the Members are raised. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. Some people growl here. That's not funny. Your interpretation, I hope, goes in at least one direction. Why? There is a whole series of questions sent that require prompt answers and a solution. If I touch on the problem of anesthesiology in Maribor, today I will ask in the second part about the issue of the construction of the bond that Impel needs to expand production so that more money will pass into taxes, etc. Please put to the vote Mr Tank's proposal. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u17	In this National Assembly, the President of the Government has never been in charge of ministers. First, I find out that fact. And from that, I could also make a procedural decision. But if you're asking us to vote on this issue, then you're essentially asking us to commit the President of the Government to do something that, for the first time, is not normal for us to commit to, in second place, such a matter sets a precedent or a precedent for all further matters. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to vote on this issue. So I won't put this to the vote. Mr. Jože Tanko, I hope it won't be the same, because then there will be an abuse of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Even if it were exactly the same, it wasn't an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but I would hope that at least somehow it's cool. See, this letter, sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, says that Alenka Smercol has a planned summer vacation. If we adopted an annual plan for the work of the National Assembly on 11 November last year or 9 November last year, then the lady had a planned annual holiday ahead of 9 November last year. That's, I think, impossible, given how it's done in this country. Mr. Mag. Goran Klemenčič will attend the opening of new premises of the International Criminal Court. This is not a valid reason to withdraw from the meeting of the National Assembly and not answer the question of the Member State. That's what the President of the Government allowed. There's also a absence that's connected to the mag. Vesno Györkös Žnidar after 2 p.m. is not a valid reason. In view of the fact that this proposal was accepted by the Government, the Secretary-General of the Government sent it to the National Assembly, it is likely that the President of the Government, given the fact that he was a long-standing advisor to the National Assembly for legal, constitutional and other matters, was probably aware of the consequences. The power of the President under the Rules of Procedure referred to in the second paragraph of Article 235 shall be perfectly clear. He can represent the government at all points of the agenda. Given that he has allowed the business unjustified absence of his ministers, I propose that the President of the Government is responsible for these questions, which should be answered by ministers. I think it is inappropriate that this is the way the rules of the National Assembly, the business provisions, are played. It is, however, that you are the ultimate advocate of the rule of law and the institutions of the rule of law. At the same time, you suspend, wherever possible, the rules in force in the National Assembly and the government's obligations to the National Assembly. I don't know how many thousands of euros you've learned at the time you've cashed in, that the rules have been to be respected, that the Rules of Procedure are to be respected, and that the laws are to be respected. I propose, Mr President, that you put the procedural proposal to the vote because it complies with all the business provisions for decision. You'll decide whether you support it or not in the coalition. That's your choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u19	Two parts will have my answer. First time. I take it you're making the same procedural proposal the second time I've warned you about. The other thing is that while you were making a procedural proposal, you insulted the Prime Minister. Directly, without him being able to answer. The procedural proposal comes to me, and it is not possible to put it on someone else. As far as the ministers are concerned, I note that there is no question for the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, given this list that we have here. About the mags. Let me tell Goran Klemenčič that this is not just a visit, but a long-term policy of Slovenia to the International Criminal Court. For the mag. Vesno Györkös Žnidar – The Brdo process means a meeting of interior ministers. You know well that those from the Western Balkans are very important both to address the migration and other problems we have in this area. When I talk, it's nice to let a man talk. So I say that I note the fact that this does not reduce the substantive possibility of holding today's meeting in a manner that is carried out. At the same time, it is businessly stipulated that in such cases, when a person does not receive an answer, he shall receive either an oral reply, if he so requests, or a written one, on the basis of what is laid down in the Rules of Procedure. So I don't want to put this to a vote. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, while I was listening to you, I remembered that I had been waiting for the Foreign Minister for three sessions to answer my question, and then he showed up. But good, I still partially understand that because he's an outside minister. Although I may not be too long, it seems to me that it is time for us to explain the rules of procedure a little more substantively as well. I propose that you give Mr President the Government a word and tell us whether he is capable of answering these questions today or not, and make sure that this stunt will no longer be repeated that half the government is not present. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u21	I'll answer the previous procedural questions first. First time. The procedural question is answered by the President, so you can't use a procedural call to answer, and even the viewers don't know that he can't answer. So I'm asking you not to abuse procedure in this way. The word "procedural" is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u22	Good afternoon. Respectable all together! I think that the fundamental problem of today's session and this debate that we have today is that ministers have begun to be somewhat under-appreciative to this national assembly and that answering questions from Members is only another, third priority. First they lay down all the other things that are important to them, and only then, if they are able to come to Parliament will they come to Parliament to answer. The President, you probably agree with me at least at this point, that in recent months, we can also say that in the last year, the practice that many ministers are missing is one of the key points, that is, when ministers have to answer our questions. Ministers avoid answering questions because of different things. We had cases where the Minister avoided answering the questions of the Members because he had an interpretation. Ministers avoid because they have permissible, all sorts of openings and similar things. As a result, my procedural proposal will be very precise and exact. Honourable President of the Government, if you can explain to us Members what you personally as an institution, as President of this Parliament, will do to ensure that the Government is more involved in the questions sent and what will happen if ministers continue to be missing in such a large number. Will you also call on the Government to provide, say, alternative answers in case the President of the Government can answer instead of ministers?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u23	The question was raised to the President of the Government, who has no opportunity to answer. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On 25 January this year, Minister Marble was also absent for his vacation. That's when I warned you, you have a magnetogram that's an unacceptable practice. But in this case, when half of the government is missing, Mr President, and you know it, you could have moved the point of the question of a Member and answered the questions of a Member on another day. It wouldn't be the first time. But you didn't do it. There really was no initiative in the College, but it has nothing to do with it, it is easy or not, but you, as chairman of the National Assembly, could do it yourself, because the schedule is completely in your hands. Apparently, this government has been dominated by cowardice, and there is a deliberate circumvention of ministers to answer parliamentary questions. Next time we'll have maybe two thirds of the absent ministers, including the hair drawn reasons, as you have written here. The next meeting is known exactly when it will take place in May, and ministers should adjust their schedules to the points of the question and answers and to what is on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly. Other European governments are also considered to adapt their obligations, including international obligations, to domestic affairs, and in particular to respond to parliamentary questions and initiatives. All ministers come to all developed democracies, except for us, it has become common practice that, if possible, meetings of the National Assembly on the questions sent, as well as on the items on the agenda, shall be avoided. They will come, you will not believe, and you will monitor how the vote takes place, when no one can even debate anymore, nor can they answer. They come there, not to the debate on the agenda, but to the vote in the National Assembly, late in the evening, if necessary. I propose or wish to know from you, Mr President, what you will do in the next similar case in order to ensure the presence, full presence of the government or ministers who can only answer this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u25	Two things again. First, the point of asking procedural questions has turned at this point into an evaluation of work, an argument, i.e. a controversy, not a solution to this issue. I therefore note, on the one hand, that this number of procedural issues at this point is certainly the abuse of the Institute, which we have with procedural questions. However, as regards the content itself, given that this point has been tabled today and given that we have had a debate in the College, and that this matter has been repeated several times, I will be very careful at the next call whether individual ministers rightly or unjustifiably announce their absence. However, it can still happen to us that because of extraordinary matters, someone is missing and all these matters are regulated in this Rules of Procedure. So I will then check when the time is most appropriate for ministers to answer their questions and, accordingly, also within the regular session, I will determine when these questions will be answered. It applies to the next session, not to the one already convened and taken accordingly. So we're going through [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I hope it's something else. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. See, the Rules of Procedure are a form that should allow for the best possible content. We need to highlight another dimension. Of course, you went into interpretation, but if they're not there, they'll answer you in writing. In this government, as well as in some previous government, because I look a little bit back in the vertical of time, especially the opposition is considered to have written questions on the basis of the majority of cases to be questionable. In fact, in a way, the person who should answer is getting rid of the person who asks the question. And it seems to me that this is some dimension that we also need to take into account substantively. If the ministers are already a percentage, I would suggest that you at least grumble, that these written questions are then substantive and that we get them in a shorter time than the formal deadline of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u27	I will act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. The first four will be answered by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. On 10 July last year, the Fiscal Rule Act was adopted by more than 60 votes constitutionally prescribed. The law has been coordinated and prepared by your government. You have written down new rules for the planning, implementation and supervision of budgetary policies. By this law, you have also established and regulated the functioning of the Fiscal Council as an independent and independent state body. Under the Fiscal Rule Act, the Government must draw up a framework for the preparation of budgets for the next three years and must submit it to the National Assembly and the Fiscal Council at least 20 days before the deadline for the submission of the Stability Programme to the European Commission. The National Assembly, as you voted in this meeting, will also conclude its consideration of this framework. This cannot be done by the fiscal council, because nine months after the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, it has not yet been established. The government proposal for members of the Fiscal Council in March this year did not receive sufficient support, nor did the parties supporting the Fiscal Rule Act vote for it. It's like our media hasn't noticed at all. The Government of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the largest opposition party, has not even invited the creation of a staff proposal for a fiscal council. It seems that the government has even wished to see the fall of candidates for the fiscal world intimately, as it has no one above it to take into account in the preparation of budgetary frameworks and fiscal policy planning. With this, you have assured yourself that the Government itself interprets and interprets the provisions of the Constitution and the Fiscal Rule Act, making the necessary policies itself and in its own way, while the coalition majority in the National Assembly faithfully and without consideration confirms this, as we have also seen in the vote on the enlargement of the agenda. I ask you, Mr. President of the Government: Who has taken over the tasks of the Fiscal Council – the Government or the President of the Government? I want to know: Is the situation that you have deliberately brought us into, illegal or even unconstitutional? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u29	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u30	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. In fact, I am pleased with him after all this conversion of words that I have witnessed in a previous debate, to which I regret not to be able to respond. But first, let me say that none of the previous governments had the desire to arrange public finances to adopt the Fiscal Council Act and propose to the members of the Fiscal Council what our government has done. When we adopted the Fiscal Council Act, we also had several conversations with your client, and with the party's summit personally, you were almost the only one in this national council who did not support this law, even though you said you supported the implementation of the fiscal rule and therefore the normal financial discipline that our government is now finally implementing. Next. We passed the Fiscal Rule Act without your cooperation, which was very difficult because a two-thirds majority and a lot of coordination with all political parties were needed. Then our government immediately proposed the initiation of the procedure and we carried out the first procedure, a call for members of the Fiscal Council. This was in August of last year immediately after the adoption of the law. As you know, too few candidates have applied. At first, three of them applied, but the two roles were incomplete, so we had to repeat the call. We repeated it already in November last year, received enough applications, again ten, and then carried out a peer review of these candidates with a special commission. We have found that the candidates are professional, and then have consulted within political parties to determine whether they are in some way acceptable under other criteria, although I stress that they were all highly professional candidates. You didn't support them either. There wasn't a two-thirds majority. The government, the coalition supported them, explained these matters, explained their expertise, so the government did everything it could. You say the government itself interprets the law, that the government is supposed to want a state without a fiscal world. On the contrary. The former governments obviously wanted to make decisions without such mechanisms. Our government, as I say, conducted two calls, came to the National Assembly, talked to everyone and tried to reach the fiscal world. Let me stress that, even as soon as possible, we will be leading these procedures forward again to get to this body. However, there is no way that I can accept the argument that our government does not want financial control, in fact, the government and the coalition are themselves apart from the National Assembly and all of you very precise and strict, I would say, a supervisor. As you know, we have consolidated public finances, reduced the budget deficit below 3% and established a successful management of state, public finances, which is also recognised by the whole world. All our credit ratings have increased, our interest has fallen, we have only saved last year because of this, I have already stressed, more than half a billion euros because we have behaved economically, which is certainly a good example and a basis for further action. And that's how we're gonna keep going. I'm sure he is, and here you're right, it's not good that we don't have a fiscal world yet. But the government has done everything it can, and this is a situation where a two-thirds majority is needed in the National Assembly. That is why cooperation between the coalition and the opposition is needed here. We will also continue to offer a hand which, as I said, has already been rejected in law after multiple consultations. I hope that this time we will find a common language, I am in favour of participating, if possible, in any such projects that are so important to the country. Let me stress that the decree will also be addressed in the National Assembly. So it's not that the government is hiding something, that they're trying to pull something off. On the contrary. While the Government is already implementing all the strict financial mechanisms to be sufficiently cost-effective and yet productive enough in this country, the National Assembly also has an opportunity to give its opinion on each content, as it has been said, at the time of its consideration of this decision. I will monitor this absolutely, we will listen to this and then we will go to the final adoption of this document. I assure you that we will continue with good governance and with public finances, as we pointed out last year and before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u31	Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. This criticism of the criticisms of the previous governments is inappropriate because such a rule was not necessary when other governments were involved, except in the mandate of Alenka Bratušek. Mr President, we have not supported the law simply because you have greatly softened the constitutional provision, which has also been adopted by a two-thirds majority, and you have made the Fiscal Rule Act a diversion and facilitated the government's business with this solution in the Fiscal Rule Act. But the point, Mr President, is that, now that you have taken the implementation of the law seriously, the fiscal world should have it by October last year. You said in August that you didn't get enough, in November you repeated the call, there was a three-month hole in the middle, so you didn't do anything, then you waited until March to propose to the National Assembly a motion for a vote. You consciously took a long time not to get the fiscal world on purpose. Because you had people and you could take the procedures through. And one more thing, the criticism of our client is also inappropriate, because no one has even informed us that you have a choice. No one from the government came to us to tell us and to talk to us about who was right for it. However, I asked you whether the situation in which we are and in which we adopt this document is the right framework for the preparation of the budget for the next three years, whether it is adopted in accordance with the legislation in force or whether this procedure is inconsistent with the law or unconstitutional. You didn't answer that. I suggest you tell us why or your opinion on whether the matter is illegal because the provisions of the law are not being taken into account, and more of the provisions of this law, which you yourself have prepared and more or less arranged for its adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u33	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you so much for the extra question, for the word. It is true, honourable Member, that in previous periods it was not necessary to have a fiscal rule law because Europe did not impose a special rule on us. But then, because we thought and did nothing ourselves, we made the state of public finances worse until we were unrecognizable and drowned in the financial crisis. And in fact, if someone else does not tell you that something needs to be taken — is that why they have to mismanage property? On the contrary. And earlier, you mentioned my role as an expert in the National Assembly years ago. At that time, I participated in a constitutional group that prepared a fiscal rule, including with you and many parties, as an expert you as a politician, and helped to change the constitution in this positive direction. But I'm concerned about something that you've rightly warned me about, by the way, about the question of constitutionality. I'm a politician now. I think we have enough constitutional experts, still my colleagues from past activities, who, I think, will judge openly and publicly, as do the competent services in the National Assembly and elsewhere, whether it is legal constitutional practice. I assure you that the Government is doing everything in accordance with the law and the possibility of imposing decisions and other acts in a legal way into the procedure. However, if there is no body, the inability to give an opinion of such an authority is obvious and the procedure must then be followed. This is similar to another force, but it is necessary to act clearly. The government keeps repeating its proposals. And now I want to stress the following. Who else will run for such important functions in our country if the National Assembly rejects two distinguished professors and another respected financial expert who went through the expert board of committees through the government board to come to the boards of the National Assembly to take this responsible role? These are very responsible functions, and we have therefore sought out the best experts who were willing to run. And then we reject them here in the National Assembly. What is this signal to the best staff in Slovenia, which could best contribute to financial consolidation, to the other functioning of institutions in the country. That's what I'm afraid of, that's what worries me. Who else will run for the fiscal council if you refuse the best possible experts we have at our disposal and who are willing to take on this rather ungrateful role that I would not discuss further? For the data is very clear how you are rewarded, modestly rewarded for a very responsible work and exposed in public space. This will be something we need to think about and change this practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u35	Mr Jože Tanko, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you very much. That's exactly what I intend to do. With regard to the last reply from the President of the Government, I would only recommend that he be consistent in his statements. Or to deepen into history the actions of previous governments and to find that the things he spoke about were not accurate. We had a government in the period 2004-2008, which had a significantly lower deficit of 1%, and even a surplus in 2007 we did not have a fiscal rule. Thus, there was a situation when the Government decided to deal with public finances extremely economically and rationally. We have now reached a period when even the fiscal rule is no longer sufficient to fit into the envisaged framework, and the budget deficits are still significantly higher. Second thing, Mr President of the Government, you know, it doesn't matter whether you're a politician or you're a constitutional expert. Lawfulness is considered to be both a policy and a constitutional expert exactly the same, and must be judged by the same criteria. But what you said is typical of those who, when they write legal opinions, the scribes, very hard to move a dot and a comma, but when they come into office to do something by these laws or stop, find a thousand excuses that they don't need to. Such a two-faced view of the legal regime in this country cannot be proud of any Prime Minister, no Parliament, and at least the Prime Minister who considers himself a constitutional expert and has written opinions on such matters for the National Assembly. I propose, Mr President of the National Assembly, that you make a motion for a process, to put it to the vote because I am not satisfied with the conduct and answers of the President of the Government, because at least three articles of this law relating to the rights, obligations and duties of the fiscal council are violated. The government in this process did not do enough in time because we knew that for 2016 it was necessary to design and establish a fiscal world in a timely manner to do everything in order to achieve this. Extremely long distances between actions are taken, and this deliberately causes the fiscal world not to be voted on. In nine months, we had only once in the National Assembly a proposal for a fiscal world. As for the assessment of experts, leave it to those who decide. You proposed them, most of them in the National Assembly assessed them as they did, and the minority as they did. Therefore, this proposal, which you have made, has not been accepted. Mr President, I propose that you put such a proposal to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u37	Mr Jože Tanko, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, on Tuesday 19 April 2016, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Franz Trček, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, chairman. Say good-bye to everyone again! We're in Shakespeare's year, 400 years since his death, and this world has been thrown out of course, it's wiped out. This society, too, has unfortunately been wiped out in a quarter of a century. And our task, regardless of the aggregate situation – the coalition, the opposition, the executive power, is to put this society back together if I put it that way. In the face of some serious reflection on a new, second, different economic model, which will come from a worker who comes from working to live, is the challenge we are facing, the key challenge of dealing with the problem of poverty, which has been described by some as lost in the last decade, has grown across all of the permissive borders in a society still one quarter of the most developed, the richest societies in the world. What am I talking about? Let's take a look at some data. The highest poverty is in single-parent families, 27.4%. More than 1 in 4 children living in a single - parent family is poor. A recent survey, which is not yet publicly available, I hope that the Government is aware of the fact that poverty among children has increased significantly over the past ten years. On Friday there was a very nice interview by Mrs Gabi Čačinovic on this issue in Mladina, and I hope that the district minister who works in education also read this interview while running around Mokovci. If I move forward, the elderly are particularly exposed, especially to older women, usually widows, almost 40% of them live in poverty, in short, five-two of them suffer from severe poverty if I put it that way. One sixth of the people are below the poverty line. Ma'am, here is the coordination with Mrs Resort Minister, if we look at this type of data and aggregation a little bit more seriously, I am an expert on this, like you are an expert on constitutional law, every fourth person in Slovenia is suffering from poverty. We have changed – and this is the fault of all governments, at least since 2004 – into a two-thirds society, if one third of the society is clearly not seen, it is not. So I ask you to answer me: How and when will you finally start dealing with poverty? And I'd be very happy if you didn't read it from the paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u39	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u40	Your Honor, Mr Trcek, I'm really going to start without the paper, and then I'm going to read some information. I'm gonna start without paper because you're really talking to me in the same spirit as I could. I do not think that anyone in Slovenia who is in sound mind can be satisfied that we still have poverty in the country. I assure you that this government as well as you do, and I believe that everyone else is concerned that the situation will improve. It is true that fortunately, but this is a bad comfort, I agree, the situation in poverty is below the European average, so we are not among the poorer half in Europe, but we also have, as you said, poor families with children, poor children also, poor older people. And that is very bad and I agree with you, it must be one of the priorities of both the government, both the coalition and, I think, the whole policy. And here, I think we're thinking in the same direction. What gives me hope that we are on the right track is that what helps me the most is the general elimination or the overcoming of poverty in the country, especially the economic recovery of the country. What does that mean? That means people's jobs. And our government believes, I believe, that with the employment of people, it is with the working population that if I leave the retired behind now, we can do the most to give people their dignity back, so that they can earn their own work for themselves, for their families, for their children, so that they can live decently. Here I will read the data, in the first nine months of 2015 the average registered unemployment rate has already dropped to 12.4%. We increased youth employment by more than 20% last year. In general, we have increased employment while at the same time reducing unemployment. And this is important, this trend continues, this is very important. Employment growth is also forecast for this year. And if we link this to economic growth, this is what actually allows us to be more active and to help ourselves and others with our activity. This also provides social assistance, which our government also cares about. It's also concerns because we understand that we can't offer everyone enough jobs, not fast enough. If you'll excuse me, I will now read that we have taken some additional measures so far to reduce poverty. For example, we have amended the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds mainly in the direction of greater accessibility and social inclusion of the most vulnerable groups. In this way, we have increased the number of recipients and beneficiaries of monetary social assistance. The proportion of recipients receiving the activation allowance and thus higher cash assistance also increased. In 2015, an average of 80 000 641 people received monthly financial assistance. In 2015, the competent ministry also prepared a package of aid for the socially weak. This is aimed at facilitating the situation of those in debt and dependent on social transfers. This package includes three important measures. First of all, debt write-offs. Second of all, help with the assignments. Thirdly, the introduction of a prepaid card. We have also presented all of this in public on several occasions. At the beginning of this year, we have also increased the minimum income to the level provided for in the Social Security Rights Act, thus giving way to the so-called Zujf, which was adopted years ago. In the future, we will also think in this direction, promote the economy, growth, employment, especially the integration of young people into the labour market, and, as you know, help the elderly. You know that the coalition has already aligned itself this year and has carried out the first reconciliation of pensions. This was at the beginning of the year, and now with great will and energy we are trying to find a path that will be publicly sustainable to continue this process. So we never forget the elderly, and we think of everyone else at the same time. It is important, however, that this government, when it has this social concern, this social sense, cares for all segments of the population and at the same time looks at development, at the future. Only if we are a developmentally successful society will we be able to help people through social transfers in particular through work activities. Let me also mention the amendment to the Social Protection Act that we are preparing. This will introduce a social activation institute that will allow [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u41	Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor to request a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u42	Yes, thank you for your word. Look, let's have a concrete conversation, Sir. The minimum income has increased by 10 euros and is still 100 euros below the minimum costs. Here, too, as a methodology, I could ask myself if they were properly calculated. Debt write-offs – the proposal of the United Left, which you have mutilated to unrecognizability, were said to be about 100,000 people, and ultimately only 3,000 500 people were written. And to make it very clear again, because people who have a little bit more say the devil, and I have to pay the bills, and that's not them. He doesn't pay them because he can't pay them. Locations. I will read a statement by the District Judge assigned to the Ministry of Justice, and I will not appoint him because he has to do his job: "The Ministry of Justice is therefore considering a legislative amendment so that the executing court should start enforcement on the debtor's apartment or apartment house," and listen, "to inform the Centre for Social Work, which, together with humanitarian organisations, would provide support by preparing a plan to repay the debt with the assistance of relatives, neighbours and humanitarian organisations." In short, some systemic inaction, if I translate this into all understandable language, will save our dear Maribor Boris Krabonja, who will raise money, but would not go into the story of that lady who, with 313 euros of pension she has because she has been doing it, can somehow solve it. I could also talk to you about how people in Maribor call me and offer them jobs through agencies that are known to be irregular payers if they are even payers, and in this way they "shoot" such statistics. It is high time we went beyond this cosmetics, and now you would be pleased to say that if you could at least answer my questions about jobs, how will you take this seriously? It's not like it's written in a national housing programme, it's got 40 containers out there. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u43	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I am sorry that you actually mention this word cosmetics, because every single person, every aid counts and is important. Of course, you can now evaluate these steps taken by the Government by why there are no more, or so, I stress that these are steps, I stress that we are developing them further. There are aids, I mentioned them, you mentioned them, but of course there will never be enough for everyone. But the trend, the direction of the government is quite clear. We do not ignore the social problems, poverty and other problems that the government is actually. We address them, we take action. I've given you some. And if you're operating on some numbers to make them too small, we'll increase them. It's going to grow. You can't expect every measure to save the whole of Slovenia. So that we will absolutely continue with the help of jobs, with the introduction of a prepaid card, to achieve effects, with, as I said, economic performance in the country allowing social transfers to grow in some way, or that they will somehow become unnecessary in some way, because we will allow people to be creative with employment, help themselves and society, and most of all their families and those who are now having a hard time. We're absolutely going this way. Let me mention this institution of social activation because I failed to complete the sentence earlier. It is a matter of enabling socially excluded categories to remain involved in certain programmes that will be primarily competent, i.e. by knowledge, skills, that they will be able to go to work to be able to get jobs. This project is very demanding and requires cooperation between ministries, centres for social work and other stakeholders, but we will start with it in 2017 when we coordinate. At the same time, we will step up, as far as possible, all of these measures, which we now have foreseen and which we are already implementing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u45	Dr. Franz Trček, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I would be very happy if what the Prime Minister put forward was true. See, the Stability Program, the Public Finance Policy is on the third quarter, the social transfer, 25 words and one letter "s".The next issue, the National Reform Programme, if you go exactly brother, is not much talk about this. Of course, we are aware of some difficulty of the situation, but instead of some kind of data-freezing in an ordoliberal way, which is very fetishised by Mr Financial Minister, a sense is needed here for all these problems. Look, Mr Cerar, you and your government needed a third of the mandate to come to Maribor to see how my lunatics live there, if I say so myself. A third term. Well, it's not populism, not some excuse, whether it's Fiscrates now or it's your fault. These are two territorial levels of government that must cooperate. I agree, but the columnist of the Saturday Annex, Jerdin, nicely asked you questions : Will the government come with a decree that we will no longer sell state property to postal collectors in Panama and elsewhere? Whether we will drive this state economy forward so that we will allocate some of the profits to the needy and another part of the profits to young people in order to be able to work. These are some questions. But you started the answer in the same spirit as I would have you. Wait, I'm not yet, at least not yet, but I hope not, probably not, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And you are! And you need to work with your team. You and your team must have more hearing for, as it is called, and as it is, the common man, because after all he pays us here. I'm kind of populism here. In fact, it is more serious to deal with this, the absence of colleague Hanžek, who has been involved for almost 40 years and the predecessor has made it very clear what this means. On the proposal of another Member, we wanted to have a debate on the issue of poverty in Parliament, and the coalition voted us down. What do we report with this? Are we reporting that you don't see this poverty? Are we saying that we do not want to deal with this poverty somehow? It seems to me that this is a much more important issue than the whole range of matters we have in this House. Including Leljak's balls, I'm going to have to scrape a little more of the coalition's biggest client. I therefore propose that we vote and finally hold this debate and start working. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u47	Dr. Franc Trček, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 April 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Joseph Horvat, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministerial assembly, distinguished Prime Minister Dr Miro Cerar. In the European Union, tax fraud and the avoidance of tax payments lose about one trillion dollars a year, a thousand billion euros of public funds. This worrying tax gap of a European citizen, including Slovenians, costs about 2,000 euros a year. This shows a simple calculation. The average amount of taxes lost in Europe exceeds the total amount allocated by the Member States to health care and is more than four times the amount spent on education in the European Union. Loss of revenue increases deficits and debt levels in the Member States at the most crucial time of the crisis. Funds aimed at increasing public investment, growth and employment are declining due to tax fraud and tax avoidance. Dear Mr. President of the Government, I would like to ask: What measures will you take to ensure that money from tax havens is also returned to Slovenia in the light of the latest findings of Panamanian documents? Does the Government study such examples of good practices in other countries, such as Germany? Does the Government examine Panamanian and other similar documents and how will it act if it finds that individuals and businesses have avoided paying taxes in the Republic of Slovenia? What measures does the Government intend to take, Mr President, that the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia could more effectively collect taxes on profits from companies in tax havens owned by Slovenian citizens? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u49	The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question, honourable Member Horvat. Before, there was a criticism of the absence, now I don't know who I'm going to talk to, and it's a good thing that you're in the hall that you asked the question, the opposition is gone. The government has remained, the coalition is here, the opposition is almost gone. So interestingly, those who speak do so themselves. But since I can't talk about it, I'm going to answer your question now. The government is also working to prevent Slovenia from inadmissibly hiding money in tax havens. To this end, we are studying a number of practices of foreign countries, and we are also involved in international groups, organisations, coalitions to fight this, and I will say something immediately below, and of course we are also taking action. Let me tell you something. As early as November 2014, an Interdepartmental Working Group was set up to prepare measures to effectively protect Slovenia's economic and financial interests with a view to examining the transfer or concealment of assets abroad, particularly in tax havens. Two monitoring projects currently under way by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, FURS, are linked to the outflow of funds to tax havens. With targeted control of the declaration of assets, FURS has already carried out 942 controls from 2011 to 2015 and has added an additional 24 million additional liabilities in this area. However, in the case of asset registrations, 377 controls were carried out during the period 2009-2015 and additional liabilities of EUR 62.4 million were assessed. But it's an extremely difficult case that takes a lot of time, but as you can see, tens of millions of us have managed to keep this control here when it comes to attempts at fraud. However, through the voluntary disclosure of unfulfilled tax obligations, which is now subject to legislation, a self-declaration of taxable persons is encouraged to report past tax irregularities voluntarily and thus avoid liability for the offence. Yes, Slovenia is cooperating with other countries, exchanging information on tax matters and also transposing useful and good European and other legal instruments into our legislation. It cooperates with international organisations such as the OECD at EU level and so on. Let me mention a very significant case. As you know, a new global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in tax matters, adopted by the OECD Council in July 2014, which has also become part of EU legislation as a result of the adoption of the directive, has been established to protect tax revenues. Slovenia is one of the 52 signatories to this multilateral agreement between the competent authorities or countries that will automatically exchange information on financial accounts with a view to preventing such tax evasion or the illegal transfer of money into tax havens. The first exchanges on this will take place at the level of these countries and, hopefully, also many others who will join them in 2017. Let me mention that in the area of money laundering prevention, Slovenia has already achieved a good result through its control measures, as we consider, according to international analyses, one of the countries where the risk of money laundering is among the lowest. Moreover, transparency regarding remittances in areas where money laundering and terrorist financing are more effective is important. Let me conclude that these and other government activities show that our priority is one of the priorities of the fight against tax fraud and evasion, so we are actively involved in these and other practices that cannot be presented here in more detail. Of course, if we detect specific perpetrators of this, we will encourage all the competent national authorities, especially the judiciary, to do their duty of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u51	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much too, Mr President of the Government for the answers so far. I welcome the establishment of the Interdepartmental Commission in November 2014, but the citizens on behalf of whom, on behalf of all of them, I am asking this question, because this is an acute problem of this country and of others, we will probably not only be satisfied with the study, with the analysis, but we are interested in the results. That is why I propose, Mr President, that this Interdepartmental Commission may also report periodically to the competent committee. You did not answer me, Mr President, whether the government had a discussion on the discovered Panamanian documents and whether it would examine them and look for possible tax evasions from the Republic of Slovenia. We also know that the government is preparing a tax reform, Mr President, whether this reform, a tax reform, will take into account that the capital is a bird's platter. I think you understand what I'm getting at. We, of course, so New Slovenia, as an extremely pro-European party, respect and nurture European freedoms, including the free movement of capital. So in this spirit, of course, it is very important what our tax policy will be in the future. We will probably not wait to have a tax union within the European Union, given that we also logically have a banking union, that we will also have an energy union, but we will probably never have a tax union. It is therefore very important what is the tax policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Mostly, in my opinion, it has to be stimulating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u53	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Now, honourable Member, you have extended the issue somewhat to another subject, this is a tax reform. If I first respond to this Panamanian case of these oasis, the financial oasis, of course, the government through the competent authorities is closely monitoring this. As you know, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of this to draw lessons from this, to connect in this area, to identify good practice and also in our territory, or where our citizens, who may or may have been involved in these matters, have made appropriate applications, initiate procedures and so on. But if it goes any further, there are police, criminals, prosecutors and other competent authorities who know what they have to do. In general, it really wasn't meant here to talk about tax reform. Let me say that we are aware of how good it is that we must, through tax reform, a mini-tax reform, a restructuring of taxes, that we will have a fairer and more efficient tax policy, but that it will not affect the economy or workers substantially, to create a more efficient system that will attract and activate healthy capital and, on the other hand, ensure that workers are justly or justly rewarded for their work. So we're working on it. We have interviews with all stakeholders in the economy, even within the framework of the social partnership, we are talking to all stakeholders. We will go into this matter quickly, but thoughtfully, in the coming months, and of course you will also be Members informed of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u55	Mr Jožef Horvat, you have the floor to ask, on a procedural basis, for a debate to be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, this is also my proposal to hold a debate on this extremely important topic. I'm sure it's a few minutes too little to clear up all tax fraud, tax evasion. Last but not least, in May 2013, a Member of the European Parliament from the Republic of Slovenia prepared a very thorough report on tax evasion, which also applies to the Republic of Slovenia as an EU member. On the basis of this report and the debate in the European Parliament, an appropriate resolution was also adopted. And dear colleagues, I believe you will support my proposal. In Slovenia, in order to make up for the development backlog of the last few years, we need to engage all, large financial resources, which, with the great indebtedness of the country, we will not be able to provide only with austerity measures and even with such high economic growth. Let's just see what problems we have by closing down the financial structure of the construction of the second railway track, Koper-Divač. Bad practices in the past have allowed Slovenians to transfer between €50 billion and €75 billion abroad or into tax havens. Thus, it is between five and seven annual budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. That's what I'm talking about. And this assessment was made by American economist and researcher of the global tax avoidance industry, Mr. James Henry, who is also the chief economist of the Fair Tax Network. So there's a lot of analysis, a lot of literature, if you want, on this topic, now all you need is action. Actions how to get this money that went illegally from the Republic of Slovenia to tax havens or anywhere else. Maybe now he's going back through some strange channels in the process of so-called other privatisation. Our people, and now I'm going to be a little bit of a patriotic, and people in Pomour are asking me to ask these questions over and over again. Why Pomura? Because there's one in five unemployed. And it's actually a problem, a big problem, many of us have big problems how to spend a month. Here we all see together, I am sure that we all see together that there are some possibilities to do all the legal levers and at least part of that money that went illegally from Slovenia, we will also draw back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u57	Mr Jožef Horvat, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 April 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Government, distinguished President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Miro Cerar! In this year or in its entire mandate, the government has a number of measures, measures as challenges to facing demographic trends, measures that will enable our citizens and citizens to live a decent life in the future. However, in view of public finances, I have an increasingly frequent feeling that I fear that money is not fooling me that it is simply not enough that the public financial framework essentially, sometimes predominantly determines certain necessary measures. Let me just focus on some of the key areas. Firstly, in the field of health, the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 was adopted without a tangible financial framework. Secondly, the law on long-term care is in preparation, but the procedure is somewhat in the process of providing the necessary resources for this. Thirdly, additional funds are needed for infrastructure investments and innovative technology, which are a prerequisite for even greater economic growth, market competitiveness, higher exports, new jobs. Work-related measures, targeted active employment policy programmes require a certain amount of financial resources and, last but not least, it is necessary to ensure the extent of the resources we allocate from the budget to the socially disadvantaged, as we are and certainly will remain a social state. We are aware that we must live within the established framework of the financial framework, and that is why we have adopted the Fiscal Rule Act. That's what we should do, I believe before, yesterday, certainly in the past. Many studies show that in the Republic of Slovenia, in the near future, there are social problems that some demographic trends suggest and so on. However, the situation we are in is certainly not brilliant, and in my opinion it is not hopeless. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: Does the Government have a clear funding plan for the key actions that I have previously listed, especially a vision of how to deal with demographic trends, and how to achieve what we should have set ourselves so that we can offer an optimistic or realistic hope for a better, brighter future for all our citizens and citizens? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u59	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Thank you, honourable Member, for your question, which is of course extremely important. The government has both a vision and a plan. We are aware that the demographic challenge is one of the key challenges to our further development. In spite of the projection, the demographic projection for Slovenia is very difficult, one of the most difficult in Europe, if not the most, so of course we know that we must continue to work intensively now so that we can manage matters. However, the situation is not hopeless and, of course, all we have to do is work. The basic scenario projections show that expenditure on ageing in Slovenia by 2060 would increase from the current 24.7% to 31.5% of GDP and expenditure on pensions from 11,8% to 15,3% of GDP, which is the largest among all European Union countries, i.e. among the eight. It is therefore necessary to act now, with structural reforms, on changes to ensure, in the long term, both financial sustainability and the normal survival of all categories of the population. The 2013 pension reform shows positive effects, but does not yet guarantee the long-term sustainability of the pension system after 2023. As you know, a white book on pensions was presented last week. On the basis of a public debate, the Government will adopt legal solutions, i.e. proposals for these solutions, which will be sent to Parliament, which will allow implementation, so that new measures will be implemented after the transition periods have expired. This year – and I am already addressing one of your specific issues – the Government will adopt and submit to the National Assembly a proposal for legal arrangements for long-term care and personal assistance, allowing services and benefits for persons who are dependent on foreign assistance for age or other reasons to be organised more qualitatively, efficiently, rationally and adapted to this group of consumers by ensuring the most efficient use of available resources, in particular by moving away from now-dominated expensive health services in the provision of cheaper social assistance and support services. Furthermore, by reducing the volume or needs of direct assistance in the area of long-term care to the elderly in particular, by strengthening prevention, early rehabilitation and use of modern information and communication aids, and not least by reshaping the current funding system by pooling all existing resources at one place, i.e. part of compulsory health and pension insurance, part of the funds of the local communities and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, thereby providing a new solidarity source and additionally providing a new solidarity resource, which could in part bring the funds of the amended supplementary health insurance or new excise resources. These measures will ensure that the costs of these services are managed in a way that does not increase linearly by increasing the number of users, as would be the case with the maintenance of the current health and social service model. The new way of organising and financing long-term care will also allow for better monitoring of costs for these purposes. After the establishment of the system, the burden of the health and social system will be reduced in the long term through institutional treatment. Let me stress, of course, that, in addition to long-term structural changes, pensions, health care, long-term care, migration policy, there will also be actions related to them, measures to increase the activity of the population and older people's work, measures for the rapid transition of young people to the labour market, which is very important. Of course, we're doing everything we can. And, of course, there will be measures here to invest in human resources. The government will also send a bill, a new law on healthcare and health insurance to the National Assembly in October 2016. It will define, inter alia, the transformation of existing voluntary supplementary health insurance, regulate the rights and obligations of compulsory health insurance and determine the status and arrangements of the financial supervision of the Health Insurance Office. However, measures to diversify resources will integrate all of this into countercyclical mechanisms by working on these issues, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u61	Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Government, I am optimistic, I am optimistic by nature, because I look at the challenges, not the problems, the challenges with positive valence. And I can be optimistic on the basis of what I just heard from you. I wish this matter would also take place in practice. I think we're on our way. But we will do even better if we can work together on some things, in those key challenges both the coalition and the opposition, and in particular what you have also stated in one part of the response, when it comes to key challenges, the key activities of this government, it is necessary to look at a comprehensive, not just partial, sectoral policy, not to say kindergarten, but simply to see the whole forest, not to look at the individual tree. Of course, I must express very great joy and satisfaction here, if the long-term care law, which we are talking about for 20 years or more, is to be seen this year's light of the world and live in the morning, if I make a little figurative expression. I also expect, of course, that in the full sense of the word as a marriage, as a guarantee of some sustainability of public finances in the area of pensions, the so-called reserve demographic fund will come to life, which is also enshrined in the coalition contract and so on and so forth, so that I will not repeat myself because we both spoke in previous implementations. At the same time, I must say once again that in all the high-flying goals, in all the stories that have long-term, long-term goals and objectives, today and now the target population in particular, those who live on the edge of social life, I am not talking about the risk of social exclusion, but at the edge of social minimum, at the edge of poverty. For these, however, it is necessary to have, regardless of what is said, especially obedience, especially obedience, and empathy. Thank you very much and a lot of success in your work.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u63	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u64	I will only briefly add that, with regard to the demographic reserve fund or the law that will allow the Slovenian State Holding Act to transform Kad into this fund and provide him with additional financial resources, I would like to add here that the Ministry of Finance has already drawn up and put it into coordination. Desus also received this material as one of the coalition parties. In short, all these projects are actually running. And I want to be, like you, probably even more intense, because I'm in the government in this loop, and later you will be discussing this intensely here in order to achieve these goals together, as you said. These are our coalition commitments, as well as what is so important to our citizens that they will enjoy a safe age for health and social insurance, what our government is working towards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u65	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mr Ljubo Žnidar you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, who is absent. Therefore, I also ask you whether you want a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Since Minister Zdravko is absent, please give me an oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The Republic of Slovenia is in an extremely difficult financial situation or is deepening from day to day financially, giving information that the Slovenian finances are completely unsustainable. Let me say that the government deficit in 2008 was €9 billion. That today the public financial deficit is over €40 billion. This is alarming data which clearly shows that the Government is absolutely unaware of the stability of public finances. Even in this year, more than half a billion financial deficits were produced in comparison to the budget itself. Measures and proposals on how to stabilise finances in our country are not practical. I would stress one segment that is important, but it is only part of which should also be taken into account in the rescue itself. I'm talking about attracting foreign investors. We know that domestic investors are fleeing to neighbouring countries, either Austria or Italy, and that foreign investors are practically not in our country, or that the countries of the Republic of Slovenia are evading. Slovenia has a good strategic position and has a good position as a member of the European Union. However, this is not enough to attract foreign investors. For this reason, I ask the Minister of Economy: What activities and actions is the Ministry leading to attracting foreign investors? We know that there are always economic delegations when government visits are made abroad. At the protocol level, there are many good promises, talks, but then there is virtually no solution to the operational level, no success. This is the Ministry of the Economy's task below. However, there are virtually no measures and solutions. So I'm asking the Minister to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u67	Violeta Tomić has the floor to ask the Minister of Culture mags a question. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The Idria Mine was once the world's largest silver producer, the second in the world. The city of Idrija is inseparably linked to the acquisition of this precious metal, and after its closure it remains under the city for as many as 280 kilometers of trenches, and a rich legacy has been preserved, but not without complications, as we know, are now culminated in these complications to the boiling point. Idrija established a centre for the management of the legacy of mercury in 2011. The Institute was established to manage the cultural heritage and natural values associated with the Idrija mine, the maintenance of key buildings and the immovable heritage of mercury in Idrija. The heritage was also successfully registered on Unesc's World Heritage List. Following the complications of financing and the transfer of power to the Ministry of Culture, the Government decided not long ago that the Centre for the Conduct of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija should immediately start carrying out its tasks, including maintenance activities for the indemnified part of the cave and monitoring of the affected area of the mine. The decision was already adopted by the Alenka Bratušek ministerial team in September 2014 and the current government has attached it to it, but at the Ministry of Culture they have expressed concerns that the public institution cannot deal with mining under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture. The situation is complex, we have been able to read in the media that there is also a fight for the budget money of the Ministry of Culture, and unfortunately the consequences will ultimately be cultural heritage, working miners and the local population. That's why I'm asking you: What criteria have been used to classify the maintenance of the mine area under the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture? Does the Ministry of Culture have the necessary expertise to implement this Decision? What financial allocation will be necessary to carry out these tasks? What will be the fate of the employees of the Idrija mine who have not received wages in a long time? Thank you very much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u69	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar has your word for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, you have already stated the legal basis, that is to say the conclusions of the Government, which are in charge of the Ministry of Culture, in order to ensure that its cultural public institution, established under the law on culture, is also engaged in mining activities. This is the implementation of monitoring in the influential area of the Idria Mercury Mine, and not just this mine, but three other mines, namely Zagorje, Senovo and Kanjiarica. The Ministry of Culture is expected to deal with four closing mines, namely the Mining Act. It's 16. 3. The government said that this was to be done immediately, and at the same time it was the conclusion of 2. 4. 2015, where the Government commissioned the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Ministry of Culture to take up to 30. 4. This is said within less than one month, to submit a proposal to define the system order and classification of the resolution of the Idria mercury mine in liquidation solely under the responsibility of one or another source and thus to provide budgetary resources. It means redistributing spending rights from one sector to another, of course, means that everything would be done at that ministry that would take over, that is, the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Economy. The Ministry of Economy has stated that they are not responsible for mining since the Ministry of Infrastructure is responsible for this, of course that means that all of this should then fall into culture. Of course, this is a rather difficult situation, for these conclusions are difficult to implement, and the Ministry of Culture cannot implement them alone without breaking the law or causing a general threat to the lives and property of people. We looked into what could be done, agreed to do three studies. The first is the study of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage of Slovenia, the title of the study is the Protection Regimes and the scope of the protected components of the heritage of mercury in Idrija and selected cases of technical heritage in Slovenia. A very precise study, from which we can learn that, for example, there is no cultural heritage in the Rudnik Zagorje near Sava, that when it comes to Senovo and Kanjiarica, there is a cultural heritage, and certainly not Unesco's cultural heritage. A very detailed analysis of the cultural heritage in Idrija and a made public distinction between what belongs to the protection of cultural heritage, which belongs to mining activities or activities that do not belong to the protection of cultural heritage. Since the study is quite long, I will only read this from this paper: “From the state of all cultural heritage units concerned it is clear that maintenance works are carried out in all underground parts of the mine and related monitoring and the provision of fire and other security for special knowledge and work within the framework of mining technologies and geological sciences, which, by the nature of the work and the principal division of competences, do not fall within the scope of specialized parts of cultural heritage protection as provided for in Article 105 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the catalogue of Conservatory Restorative works.” This is said to be clear here that mining activities themselves do not fall under the protection of cultural heritage. Then, if we look at the following studies [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u71	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. If you will recall, I have already sent a written question to you on 27 January 2015, to the Ministry of Culture, then to MGRT Zdravek Počivalšku and also to the Minister for Environment and Space. Majcnova replied that the environment and space were not responsible for this issue, Mr Restorationšek replied that sufficient resources would be provided to monitor the affected area of the mine, as he was aware of the importance of maintaining the mine in terms of the safety of the city of Idri. In short, the inhabitants of the city of Idria turned to me because they were very concerned about what their future would be, for, as we know, if it flooded, the whole city could be threatened. Your answer at the time was that you had reserved $40,000 for Unesco's inheritance under your jurisdiction. Now I'm interested in the following things: How did you two get along so that it hasn't been settled since? The closing works have already been completed in 2009 and now in order not to water the mine in full, the Law on the Prevention of the Consequences of Mining in the Idrija Mine speaks about this. If they are mine maintenance funds, why is that not being done? The miners have not been receiving personal income for quite some time, although the money is on the MGRT special item, the EUR 450 000 circus and the current maintenance is expected to cost between EUR 700 and EUR 800 000. Where did it get stuck that these two ministries didn't agree, because you said at the time that this was an extremely inter-ministerial theme that required coordination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u73	Minister of Culture, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u74	Yeah, it's an extremely interdisciplinary topic. It is not entirely true that the Ministry of Environment and Space would not touch this because it was in conclusion 24. Seven. 2014 this task to organise these matters, which was entrusted to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, but which was then distributed to the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Environment and Space. How's the money? Mining funds are still at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Indeed, for 2015 the wages of miners were not paid under the Ministry’s headings, but were covered by the liquidation weight of the mine. In 2016, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology paid miners only three months' wages. In short, wages are not at the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture gives about 40,000 euros a year for the centre, only for the protection of cultural heritage. As it is said, we have really respected the Government's conclusions more than the only one at the Ministry of Culture and have put forward a number of proposals. I can say that it is precisely the study of the European Union Law Institute that proves that the proposal that we have put forward at the outset was correct, agreed with or agreed with by the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The municipality of Idrija has also made a similar proposal, namely to stop the destruction of the mine and to transform the mine into a state-of-the-art and to train it to do these mining works. The European Union Institute of Law also proposed the same solution as the most appropriate solution. The third opinion that we have on behalf of Pirc Musar does not rule out such a solution. This, of course, means that we have presented solutions. Another possible solution, which we have also presented, which must be given in the context of inter-sectoral cooperation, is that, of course, a considerable number of laws, which the Ministry of Culture is not responsible for, so that the Ministry of Culture can also carry out mining activities. However, this raises the issue of rationality. Given that mining activities are already under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure, it is likely that the Court of Auditors would find that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u75	Mrs Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the Minister's response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Idrija mine is once again served by ministries as a hot bone, miners are without personal income, and residents are afraid of falling into these caves and the whole city will be watered. In short, Mayor Idrija of the Municipality of Idrija Mr Bojan Sever reacted and also said that bureaucrats should finally resolve this matter. After all, it's the job of certain people to solve it. The mayor also threatens with a criminal complaint against the President of the Government and all those responsible. He also offered three possible solutions. The first is to end the liquidation of the mine, the second is to implement the decision of the Government of June 2014 and the third in order to make an invitation to tender for the concessionaire who could take over this mine management. He also offered that the City of Idria could apply for the concessionaire, but apparently nothing had been given the right answer. The commune would also then take over the workers in the mine, because we can especially believe that if someone, then the mayor of the municipality of Idrija, is very concerned not only with the fate of these miners who are without personal income, but especially with the fate of his city. That is why I think it is appropriate to discuss this in the National Assembly – whose responsibility is to fail to implement these conclusions, whose responsibility it is that the lives of people in Idrija are at risk, and especially in view of the possible criminal complaint against the President of the Government himself, I think that we must take this very seriously and therefore suggest that this be discussed at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Your request will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 April 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr Saša Tabakovic will ask the question of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social and Equal Opportunities Dr Anji Kopač Dark and Minister of Justice mags. Goran Klemenčič, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u78	Madam President, thank you for your floor. The Honourable Minister, in fact, the Council of Ministers, colleagues, colleagues! At the end of March, the case of the Korean boys, who, following the family tragedy, were temporarily cared for by their parents, later assigned to another foster family in the Velenje Social Work Center procedure. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs also decided, on the basis of a certain part of the public and the comments of the old parents that the procedure was imprecise, on an inspection which did not show an irregularity, to be carried out by the Ombudsman, who also found after a review of the information that the Velenje Centre for Social Work by placing both boys in the foster family and violating their rights. Thus, according to current data, the professional services have conducted the process properly. At the same time, despite the fact that I share my opinion with the Ministry that there is a need to be very careful in this particular case when it comes to discussing it, even the need to protect personal data and the dignity of both children, I do not think that it is only my opinion that somehow there is a bitter taste in the system-wide regulation of sectoral legislation which, in my opinion, is flawed in view of the fact that this story has come to such an end. So I think that in this case, and not only in this case, in general, that family legislation has somehow overtaken the time that we should have already demarcated powers between the Centre for Social Work and the Court in the way of establishing family courts. Although such an arrangement was already provided for in the 2011 Family Code, when unfortunately this code fell at the referendum, some status quo is being maintained in some way. While it is worth noting that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities in this mandate have already announced a change in family law and the reorganization of CSDs in three parts, it seems to me that it is in fact necessary, in particular within the framework of the powers they currently have in social work centres. I think we all agree that children are a constitutionally protected category. I think that, in order to protect them in relation to progressive family policy, we should also consider, somehow, the establishment of an institute of so-called family courts, if we want to make sure that certain concerns are addressed as much as possible, which cast shadows not only on social work centres, but in general, also on sectoral legislation itself. I'm asking the Ministry: How He Sees the Problem [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Mr Saša Tabakovic, for the question and, in particular, for a concrete summary of the situation, what happened after the placement of children in another foster family and in the public record of the Korean boys. I cannot and must not comment publicly on the case itself, because all the proceedings are still ongoing, including at the second-degree body, namely the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same options that I am leading. But I am happy to respond to the systemicity of the solutions envisaged. Even with a colleague who is unfortunately not here today, we have already spoken, because it is in fact as it was in 2010, even today, a great link between the competences of our ministry and the Ministry of Justice, because the only agreed transfer and solutions from the Centre for Social Work to the courts, i.e. the joint provision of funds, training and education, can be effective. We must do this together, and we have already discussed this with the competent minister. We certainly agree to continue where unfortunately, due to the referendum of the family code, it has not been possible to carry out in practice to date. If you remember, it's 26. 6. 2011 The National Assembly has adopted modern, I can say progressive family legislation, which is mainly with long-term work, along with the Ministry of Justice, and also foresee amendments to both the Law on Unjust and Just Procedure. At that time, funds were also provided in the budget, including EUR 10 million for the renovation of the courts towards the establishment of family courts, because it is awareness that the transfer itself will not produce the results that we want, especially that it will be effective quickly and in particular that it will be dealt with in the courts themselves. This transfer, which will certainly happen, will not be possible without training, education and changes in the organisation of the judiciary. If I go to family law now. The government's work programme for this year has long been designed to deal with and adopt a new family code this year. This will be held in public debate within one week, for fourteen days. The solutions are expected to be similar, so work is being done on solutions that have already been adopted, so some will be different in the 2011 family code. However, as regards this key issue of transfer between the centres for social work and the courts, this is agreed. It is the fact that social work centres are allowed to work in advisory capacity, which is their primary primary function and therefore separate from this decision as such, and this is transferred to the courts. District courts are envisaged to decide on this, and it is clear that the law also provides for a distinction between emergency protection measures that can be carried out by the social work centre, in what time the court verifies it, including all measures for the protection of the child's benefit and the protection of children, are temporarily replaced, and fostering is temporarily replaced because it is not a permanent solution. In short, there will be a public debate ahead of you, which will last for as long as is foreseen, one month at least, but I am counting on a new family code to be adopted before parliamentary holidays in the government. I hope that he will also be supported in the National Assembly. It is always necessary to look for the best possible solutions on a case-by-case basis. However, we must also be aware of one of the interesting data that Slovenia is among 170 countries in 20th place in terms of protection, legal protection of the benefit of children. Regardless of the fact that we are all committed to this transfer from the Centre for Social Work to the courts, this certainly means that everything is wrong at this point and that the legal benefits of children in our country are not properly regulated. However, certain things could certainly be different and even better arranged, as they will be. I would also like to point out that the changes to this family law, the first studies were made in 1999, but unfortunately all the period 2000-2009, when it came to an intensive approach to the drafting of the family code, was not done in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Saša Tabaković, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister-General for her reply and, in fact, I welcome in some way her word that in some way, in the same light or somehow in the same direction, she sees herself as the solution to this acute problem of sectoral legislation, which, of course, has proven to be flawed in some way. In this sense, of course, I also take the Minister's word for the interpretation of her time-table, when, of course, this should come to the National Assembly after a certain procedure. However, I also wish that, given that the Ministry of Justice has apologized, of course, I also politely ask the Ministry to send at least a written answer to this question. At this point, of course, both ministries are somehow on the move, so, of course, I will not ask for a reply to be completed, nor will I request a debate in the National Assembly, because, as we have heard from the Minister's statement, this debate is in fact in the short run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Justice will provide you with the written answer you wanted. I now give the floor to Mr Tomaž Lisc, who will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u84	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Dear Minister, you have a number of issues open, but almost everything is related in one way or another to finance, sports, apprenticeship, private education and so on. However, I think it is crucial that the area of higher education be systematically regulated once. As we know, when we begin to regulate the matter, we usually begin at the beginning, but we always face the issue of funding in the end. And in recent days, weeks are a very open field of funding for higher education due to two issues. You've been predicting for yourself for a while now that you're about to make some new law on higher education, and then we're all going to solve this thing system-wide once in a while. But together we were all quite negatively surprised on the third page, but when we learned that you were also amending the Regulation on Public Financing of higher education institutions and other institutions. Then came the Court of Auditors with certain cases that also entail financial consequences, and the Council for Higher Education and so on. Finally, the Ministry of Finance has also been involved in your story of the adoption of the Higher Education Act, which has somehow indicated that certain solutions, at least for them, are not appropriate in the financial work. And I'm interested in the distinguished minister: Why did you decide to amend the regulation? Is this a circuit through the National Assembly, or is it a quicker rescue, or is it a quieter rescue? Why didn't you decide to make a new law on higher education, then maybe a systemic solution? Is it obvious that at least the next two school or study years will all of us who are interested in higher education wonder what will happen to the 2016/2017 study year, what about the 2017/2018 study year and so on? I think that it is the responsibility of the Ministry, both to universities, to dean, professors and other employees, and especially to students, to ensure that this funding of higher education is sustainable and systematic. I also want to know: When and in what way are the arrangements for financing higher education? Will this modified funding also have some moves in changing standards and standards in the field of higher education? Will you be more specific about individual financial anomalies that have been proven within higher education? So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Science and Sport Education Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u86	Dear President, honourable Member, respectable assembly, dear colleagues! The question is quite broad, and I will try to narrow it down to a few key points, of course. The proposal for a new ZVIS was already under public scrutiny, public treatment has been concluded, including the Higher Education Council, the Student Affairs Council, the Science and Technology Council have already supported these changes. Why? In particular, because of, of course, we regulate those key areas from the openness of school space, the transition to institutional accreditation, to the stability of funding and, of course, the democratisation of higher education institutions. Above all, in the third point, we are faced with the foundations of a constitutional decision already in 2011 which gave rise to serious reflection on what stability, transparency and, above all, the provision of funding for higher education activities is. This novel is already being regulated and will, of course, be in intersectoral coordination in the coming days. What primarily focuses your question is a regulation. After a long time in the Republic of Slovenia – and this government supported – education has been one of the key priorities. And the higher education activity in its part of the 2016 and 2017 budget has an index of 105.6, which means a 5.6% increase in resources. The same is true in the field of science. This is precisely the reason, which is a good reason, that the existing regulation on public financing of higher education institutions and other institutions should also be amended, since the Regulation itself, in view of the situation of GDP and, on the other hand, of Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Regulation, means that, at the moment, the legality of the budgetary financing of the study activities requires these changes. And that's the basic reason why the regulation is changing at all this year. So this is a good reason – an increase in funds. And it is, of course, a so-called Article 7 which, within the framework of the basic funding pillar, says so, if it is a study activity within this pillar, where the funds are equal to the assets of the previous year, increased for real gross domestic product growth last year. However, in the event that this is smaller or larger, which is also at this point, due to the agreed relaxation of both progress and of course real growth, it is necessary to amend this provision so that these funds can also be greater than the real growth of gross domestic product in the previous year. This also provides an adequate legal basis for the payment of increased labour costs in higher education institutions and, of course, the appropriate allocation of resources. That's one of the reasons. The second is, of course, the decision of the Constitutional Court, already mentioned, which also refers to its decision on the so-called reasoned substantive basis of the ZVIS for stability or the full financing of higher education institutions. As far as innovation is concerned, it builds on all of this in the direction of 2016/2017, 2017/2018 of the school year in a way that introduces the proposal of the so-called four-year financing contract, which reinforces the right decision of the Constitutional Court in terms of stability and transparency, and in particular the pursuit of objectives. And that is also the answer to the Court of Auditors, as you mentioned. This is about the effectiveness of the follow-up to the objectives that are set, of course, also well defined between higher education institutions and the ministry as a key financier. In this part, we will also complement the relevant criteria, as proposed by the ZVIS. As stated above, all these criteria have also been adequately defined at the level of the working group. The working group supported these criteria. This answers the multi-faceted question and also the few answers, the anomalies that you have also addressed in your question. But we're not staying here. Since the novel we have moved on to the system law as planned. This means that this same working group is continuing with this work and preparing a conceptual basis for the entire system law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you for the fairly solid answers, Madam Secretary. I have problems with, I think, the wrong solution or the timeline is going on. We're all probably expecting you to make a system law first, then a submarital act. But here's the regulation, then there's going to be a new law, then there's going to be a systemic solution. And yes, I agree with Article 7 of the Regulation, it is necessary to harmonise, but then why you did not harmonise only Article 7 and change certain other matters. Some wonder: Do you advocate paying the so-called chieftains, given that some specific indications are in law, that two indicators are greatly magnified, that is, the number of graduates and the number of students? And on the other hand, the law itself or the Ministry of Finance's response is a significant reduction in funding for study activity, which is the first thing. And the other thing is that students in particular are very interested in: Is this desire to limit and accelerate studies worth tuition? And just so there's no mistake, personally, I don't have a problem with some kind of voucher system to get it into higher education, I think it would be very necessary to get students a little more realistic, not on the head. And last but not least, I read the article of the Higher Education Council positively assessed the amendment of the Higher Education Act, but no one mentions this sentence: “The Council has also adopted a decision proposing to the Government to provide public funds by law for investment, investment in maintenance and equipment for higher education institutions and the government, proposing a transitional provision to maintain the share of higher education activities in GDP in the coming period.” When and how will you solve this and how much money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. To complement my reply, I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u90	With regard to the timing of the amendment regulation and the system law, the reason is completely technical. As you know, in March we will assess the real growth of GDP, and without this official assessment, of course, we also cannot change the enforceability of both sub-laws or otherwise provide legal grounds for compliance with the regulation. The second part of the conversion criteria in the Regulation are legally valid at the moment such as, and should be respected, students, graduates and so-called factor ratios between study programmes, their weight, burden, costs and so on. However, as regards these proposals that have been tabled by the Higher Education Council, this is a reflection on the proposal of one of the comments made during the public hearing of the novel, namely that this investment part is excluded in terms of “may” and, of course, we consider this investment part to be part of the so-called processes that are also taking place in higher education and hence the conclusions that have been made both by the Higher Education Council and by the Student Affairs Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u92	That's right, Madam Vice President. Otherwise, the Minister answered a certain part of the questions, but in these few minutes we have barely opened up certain matters, and I believe that it would be an intermediate point within the National Assembly to include the funding of the area of higher education, without breaking the spears there either for private or public or otherwise, but there are quite a few points in which everyone would probably agree. These are certain financial anomalies that take place both within individual universities and colleges, the issue of standards and norms, which also have a certain change in the funding of universities and universities, then the issue of tuition, apprenticeships and so on, the question or quantity of studies or quality, and here you have already begun to mention, the issue of investment in higher education and, last but not least, there is concern about certain concessional higher education institutions, or the reduction of funding for this regulation also means lowering standards in the field of higher education. I believe that there is a great deal to which we can open this debate, and I therefore call for all of us to jointly support one quality debate in the area of financing higher education tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec, your proposal or request will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19 April 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, you are running a hub that is already important in the second attempt to prepare a new calculation of the cadastral income. In the meantime, it has transformed into a system of landworthiness which, according to observations on the ground, does not at all reflect the proper production capacity of individual land. It seems that now another working group, in which your ministry has also participated, has prepared, after three years, such a way of calculating the cadastral income, which is driven by every common sense. The creation of a cadastral income law has been spent for 6 years and now all the affected have found that their proposals have largely not been taken into account. With farmers hitting tax receipts early this year, we ask what will be the next attack on the Slovenian farmer. We want to know: In what way do you intend to take your responsibility for such a fiasco? What will you do as a referee to finally start working for the good of the Slovenian farmer? If the new cadastral income system is in place, we will witness the total collapse of Slovenian agriculture, not only of small extended farms, but also of those that are large and will have to pay enormous taxes and lose a large proportion of social transfers, such as children's allowances and scholarships, despite the fact that they cannot survive through hard and hard work and food production due to unreasonablely low purchase prices. Dear Minister, I also ask you: Where do you write down in the bill how to correct farm burdens according to their economic strength and the principle of proportionality? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Diane Jedhan, to give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u96	Dear Member, honourable Members and Members, Madam Vice-Presidents, a nice greeting! Allow me to teach you first, I am the Minister of Agriculture and yet I am not in charge of tax legislation. As for the cadastral income, however, I have proposed to the Finance Minister that a wider group be made in 2015, and I am grateful to him for taking me into account. In this group they had their expert both by the Union of Farmers of Slovenia, the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, the cooperative system and the whole group of other experts were present and that is worth it. Allow me to answer tax receipts by the way, because there is no threshold for entry into tax registers, there is no problem for farmers. The fact that there is no threshold is the problem for all small business operators. This is the problem of societies, this is the problem of small craftsmen and similarly, and I believe that when the debate is over again when the evaluation period is over, I hope that it will not be longer than six months, what to do next to take into account the experience they now have in Austria. Tax registers have also been introduced in Austria. They also introduced a threshold of EUR 7 000 500 in cash payment not only for farmers, but for all, including for companies, also for craftsmen. To this point, this measure has proved to be a good one. We, as the ministry, have made a written proposal of this kind, and I believe that when the time for evaluation comes, you too, Madam Member, as well as everyone else in the National Assembly on the basis of evaluation, will support such a border. But when farmers talk to me about what to do, I advise them to do the following. I don't want to talk about the tax box because I'm a farmer, the real argument is, not a small tax box for small producers, because all small sellers could potentially be harmed the same way. As for the cadastral income. Here, allow me to say sports, the first third of the game ends because, on the basis of the final report on the work of the expert commission that took place in 2015, the Ministry of Finance prepared a draft law. The draft law is not yet coalitionly coordinated. Coalition coordination takes place tomorrow, and I want as many of our comments as possible, which are concluded with the agricultural area, to be taken into account. But I can't assess at this point which will be taken into account which is not. The second half will take place on the government. This may be information for you, honourable Member. I have already informed the coalition as well as the President of the Government several times, informed about the difficult situation in Slovenian and European agriculture, which is evident through the excess food and can be seen through the lower prices still going on, and that is, I think that those who care about agricultural space are sufficiently signaled not to consider raising the burden on agriculture. If this works for me in coalition and then in government coordination, you'll see soon. The third third, which is crucial and final, will take place in the National Assembly. In view of the debate that I have also seen on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and also on some other committees when it comes to the situation of agriculture, I simply do not believe that you will support Members and Members of Parliament anything that could make the position of the Slovenian farmer worse. But I am also ready if you want us to send you the starting points, the comments we have made at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. It is quite a few pages supported by calculations, but it is based on the fact that the position of the farmer due to the new legislation, which must be and is more robust, simpler and equal to anything that is not at the moment, must not deteriorate. This includes an increase in standard costs, that is, we are still talking about the lump sum. However, those who do not want to be in the flat are larger farms, and to some extent they have switched to accounting. On the other hand, we propose to introduce transitional periods, at least for five years, in some segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, indeed, yes, but I see in you, as the Minister of Agriculture, the possibility that you would also be a good negotiator with the Ministry of Finance, of course, if you would represent the interests of Slovenian farmer or Slovenian agriculture. You were talking about tax receipts, I also have a proposal or a draft Cadastrian Income Act, on which we also called an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Finance, on Friday we tabled this, where some calculations have already been made for individual parcels, for forests and for meadows, where the derogation is so high that it is far from what we talked about in 2013 that the cadastral income should not be higher than 10%. I think the indices here are very different. As far as tax registers are concerned, I am sorry that this proposal does not take into account either. We will wait, but the question is, if the farmer survives, because, as has already been said in the National Assembly, we will wait a year, the question of what will happen to those small processors, I am talking mainly about small farmers, processors who process from fruit dry fruit and grain a few kilograms of flour per month, what will happen to them. I have information that they are largely deciding to return. However, it is true that the calculation of the cadastra according to the new proposal is in the direction of standardised costs, because there is such an increase in the cadastral level that everyone chooses to book and manage the costs, but we must take into account that Slovenian agriculture, such as the average age, does not all have the skills of computers and book management. But all I care about is the end, I didn't get an answer: How will correction of farm burdens take place according to their economic strength and the principle of proportionality? I wonder, Minister, how many comments did you get at the time of the public hearing? I also received the answers of certain who worked in the group of unions of farmers and others [[microphone dig]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u100	Madam Members, I am aware that this debate is extremely well-intentioned and in favour of the Slovenian farmer and the Slovenian farmer. As far as the comments are concerned, I do not know because the comments came to the Ministry of Finance's website address, and some of these comments were also sent to us by NGOs. We take this into account in the ongoing coalition coordination. However, I suppose not all the comments have been sent to us because the real address is the Ministry of Finance. What form will the law take when it is adopted by the government, I cannot tell you at this time, because I do not know how many comments the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will take into account. At least I have a feeling that we will have a serious discussion about them also because the Prime Minister is also aware of the situation in Slovenian and European agriculture, and occasionally gives me the opportunity to inform him. However, negotiations on this topic will take place both within the coordination of the coalition and the coordination of the government, at the Government itself and then at the National Assembly. However, as far as the tax office is concerned, you may still allow it. As a result of tax duties, most agriculture is not subject to tax receipts, since the basic agricultural activity is not subject to tax. Secondly, by changing the agricultural flat-rate, we try one part of what has not been flat-rate so far, to move to the flat-rate in the agricultural production sector, and this is not covered. But the fact is that we still have a lot of tourism and other complementary activities in agriculture, for example, out of 70,000 farms there are 5,000 complementary activities, and within that there are some small complementary activities that burn perhaps a few kilograms of bread a year, a month or a week, each quantity is small, and this is a typical example of what could be excluded. The agricultural ministry's position on this is as it is, and I hope that when the evaluation is completed, we will go in the direction, perhaps I will say, of good Austrian practice in this area, which has made an exception to 7 thousand 500 euros in cash. And as much as we talked to farmers, including representatives of complementary activities and tourist farms, they would also be eligible for this border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u102	Yes, I have a request because you have already read it, Madam President, I would just like to add here that I regret that the Minister was not present at the meeting when we discussed the issue of agricultural tax warehouses at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. At that time, it could also be heard by all farmers, there were smaller farmers actually living in markets, but it seems to me that there is a need for policy and, of course, for the calculation of cadastral income in the future to have a broader public debate in the National Assembly, to point out problems where there are risks, what adjustments will be made not least due to the limited possibility of production in areas with a special regime and what these points will be, in fact, what will be determined there. I therefore propose that a public debate be held on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, your request will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19. 4. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. The question of sending will be posed by a mag. Jana Jenko, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a nice greeting for everyone! The demographic picture of Slovenia is not pink and it is generally known that the spatial distress in nursing homes and in special welfare institutions is very fine. The person with mental health disorders is becoming more and more, resulting in a lack of space in these institutions and homes. Everyone must be properly provided, and respect for human dignity must be ensured. In these cases, this is often disabled. I want to know: How many institutions with protected departments are registered in Slovenia? What's their occupation? What are the needs of these accommodations? How is protection provided for those who care for such persons who have special needs? Is the health of employees protected in this area or not? How many institutions in the Republic of Slovenia are eligible for the installation of dementia patients? We know that demented persons are getting more and more. How long is the waiting time for these people with mental health problems? But above all, I want to know: What has the Ministry done in this area already? Is he in this area? What are the plans for next? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ms. Anja Kopač Dark will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Ambassador Jan Jenko, thank you for asking. Nice greetings to all who are here in the hall! At the Ministry, we are aware of the difficulties faced by special welfare institutions, not only because of the increasing number of cases of people with increasingly serious mental health problems who are sent to protected departments on the basis of a court decision, but also because of changes to the Penal Code in 2011, which reduced the security measure of compulsory treatment in the forensic psychiatric department of the Psychiatric Hospital Maribor from the current 10 years. And he did not foresee appropriate solutions after the end of the sentence for those perpetrators of crimes who cannot live alone in the community. During this year, those former forensic psychiatric patients who are unable to live independently in the community, because they still pose a serious threat to themselves or others, have been placed under the Mental Health Act in protected wards for persons with multiple disorders in special social institutions or departments under the special supervision of a psychiatric hospital in the event that the treatment is not yet completed. The Psychiatric Service estimates that in recent years, between 30 and 40 such persons have been involved. In Slovenia we have four such institutions – Hrastovec, Lukaveci, Gromovje and Dutovlje with a capacity of 80 free cities – and they are intended for people who because of long-term mental health problems or mental development disorders who cannot live alone in the community. At this point, all the vacant seats are occupied. There are more than 3 to 5 people available in each section. We have been looking for various solutions at the Ministry for some time, and several meetings have been organised in the past with representatives of the special and combined institutions, with which we have sought, in particular, short-term solutions such as the Commission's handling of applications for placement following a court decision under the assets of the professional leaders, with a view to verifying the possibility of accommodation in the relevant institution and informing the court. Check lists, waiting in particular in combined institutions with the aim of checking the possibility of installing homes for the elderly and of releasing places in combined institutions, additional education, supervisors and so on. At the same time, we have agreed on a joint additional establishment of protected units within the framework of the combined institutions to reduce the pressure on special institutions, but we are also aware that it is very soon possible for special institutions to increase the concentration of the most difficult cases of users, which the existing organisation of institutions, both human resources and spatial, will not be able to manage. The fact also confirmed by the project task within the Ministry of Justice of the Organisation for Forensic Psychiatry in Slovenia, which it also points out is that in Slovenia we need a completely new specialised unit to deal with post- forensic psychiatric patients. That's why we're at Ministry 24. 3. 2016 organised an interdepartmental meeting with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice at the level of State secretaries and representatives of the Ombudsman. At the meeting, we decided to establish a specialised unit. To this end, we have also agreed to establish an interdepartmental working group to operate under the auspices of our ministry. European funds are also earmarked and have been provided by the Ministry of Justice to create this special unit, which they are also aware is necessary. As for dealing with persons with dementia in nursing homes, we explain. Placement of persons with dementia is possible in all homes for the elderly, and in accordance with the guidelines for working with persons with dementia can be placed in protected units or outside protected units with personal monitoring. For several years, homes for older people have been intensively developing concepts of work that are adapted to persons with dementia. These concepts put the user at the forefront, their needs, and the normalization of life in a home that is modelled on living in a home environment. In addition to the continuous development and introduction of modern concepts of working with persons with dementia within the home for the elderly, the Ministry's priorities include the expansion of services in the community, the adaptation of services carried out in the home environment, including for persons with dementia and the development of new services in the community. Emphasis is given to persons with dementia, help at home, daily centres, social services, or the offer of assistance in household affairs, society and the like. In short, the possibility of selecting services according to the stage of the disease and their relatives to help, both information and other assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Jana Jenka, will you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Thank you for a rather comprehensive answer. Really, I'm glad you've come to solve this problem, which is very difficult. And I want to know: When about – a time frame, are you planning to solve this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u109	Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u110	In particular, it is a matter of awareness that this transitional period, in order to reduce it from ten to fifteen years, has expired, serious problems in our special social security institutions, particularly the threat of people, guards and employees. A solution to this must be found urgently. With regard to this particular form within the framework of European funds, it is difficult to comment, but the Minister of Justice should, because it is within their competence, but in the INOP, i.e. in the Operational Programme Implementation Plan, this timetable is set and also by the Ministry of Justice, this is a very important task, so I believe that the timetable will be fast. However, these solutions are also about home for the elderly, adapting to the demented, because we know that unfortunately, due to ageing, this proportion of people in homes, institutional protection, which are demented, is increasing, and will need to find other solutions not only in this institutional treatment, but above all, I think the concepts of work and some of our homes are very successful, but also the question of how we have provisions on environmental protection. It is also essential to agree and open the Law on Mental Health and find more appropriate solutions there. Our Ministry of Health talks to the Ministry of Health, but these things will actually have to be resolved and agreed as soon as possible this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues who insist! Slovenia, like most European countries, is facing changed demographic and economic assumptions and the trend in population ageing and life expectancy. So we're becoming a long-lived society. The ageing population will have an impact on all systems, both social insurance, health insurance and long-term care, and in particular on pension insurance, which is the basis of intergenerational solidarity and a good funding principle. As demographic projections and related challenges show, they are a key element of further development and long-term financial sustainability. The number of older people will double by 260, depending on the working capacity, and the number of older people will also increase. It should be stressed, however, that the current pension reform had already been designed to ensure the sustainability of the pension system until the transitional periods were reached, which means that it will be demonstrated within a few years and that further adjustment of the pension system is needed. In order to ensure long-term sustainability of the pension system and the corresponding pensions, it will therefore be necessary to adopt legal frameworks or bases in a timely manner that will allow the implementation of new measures after transitional periods. Long-term projections also show that the pension box is maintained at least until 2022/2023. It is true that the 2012 pension reform with its entry into force in 2013 shows positive effects. The increase in pension expenditure in the gross share of the domestic product has been halted and, most importantly, the reduction in pensions established by the 2000 pension reform has been halted. The ratio between insurers is 1.37 in the last two years. Well, the well-respected minister, given that she was 13. 4. 2016 also to the general public the White Paper on pensions, I am interested in: What are the main findings of this document? And the key: Will it really be necessary to work until the age of 67, as many media have pointed out? Thank you for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dr Anja Kopač Dark, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you for the question, honourable Member, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Bojan Muršič. The White Paper was presented in Brdo last week and began its course of coordination. We want broad social coordination on such an important issue as the pension system. Yes, an ageing society requires a different allocation of the expenditure we have. So demographics is a fact that we live longer and have more older people, and so in the future, we're going to have to redistribute the resources we create, and it's going to be more of an ageing population. Of course, it should be stressed that population ageing is not only a financial consequence in the pension system, but is also the key in the area of health care and long-term care. Therefore, it is not possible to face future challenges without changes in the health sector as well as the establishment of a system of long-term care and care where, like other social security systems, we will have a collectiveisation of this risk; that is to say, to distribute this and to base this insurance on intergenerational solidarity. For the pension system, it is all the more important, above all, that we need to agree socially responsible what our pension system will be after 2020 by 2040. We must be aware that today the key problem is that young people no longer believe that they will have a first-pillar pension in the future, which is the key. Trust in Sitem is an intergenerational foundation that we can maintain intergenerational solidarity on which our pension systems are based. The only first pillar is actually through history, that is, this evidence system, has shown that it can resist all these movements on the market, cycle up and down, as we face in the global economy. Today, it is necessary to agree on what the pension system will look like after 2020 by 2040 for young people, so that they will feel that if they pay today, they will have the right to a pension from this system when they retire. So today we are designing a system that will be in place in 2040, because there will be a number of transitional periods in between, more than 20 years. In any case, such a white book is an analysis of the situation, an analysis of the existing pension changes in 2013, and in particular an analysis of possible measures in various areas. So, it simulates from a longer retirement age, from an age, from a variety of ways of coordinating pensions, from how the second pillar can play a complementary role in pensions, the question of the demographic fund. It is important that there are different possible sets of measures that have financial implications behind them, so that we know what we are talking about and also the combinations of different measures are presented. It is therefore essential to take social responsibility – not only for individuals, individual stakeholders, but for society as a whole. Now we have the first time, the White Paper 2016 gives us the opportunity to use the time we have to socially agree on the widest possible change in how we will have the pension system after 2020, and not agree again for a very short period of 7 years because we are not able to make some kind of agreement that would say to young people: Look, for 20 years we know what things will look like. It's true that it's easier to watch right now, take a step for four years, but in retirement, young people need this faith in the system so that even when they retire, [[…]] This White Paper is indeed the basis for us to be able to talk about these issues responsibly on the basis of numbers and to adopt solutions that society as a whole can also stand for. As today, we do not work until the age of 65 – most of us do not retire before – even 67 is absolutely not the fear that it is, but the fact that before the new changes will be key to making the labour market, younger people will have to enter the labour market early and also raise the lowest employment rate of older people on the market will be necessary – Slovenia is one of those with the lowest level of activity of older people between the age of 55 and 64. So retirement age is just one of the mechanisms, and we would not want to change these retirement conditions and have more people at the Employment Institute waiting for them to retire. This would not be responsible, so it is necessary to properly follow up the steps, changes in the labour market, and soon the Older paper in the labour market will also be needed in the public debate [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. Of course, we all want a broad public debate, an intergenerational social dialogue that will achieve as much consensus as possible. You wanted to say a lot more, the white book has more than 300 pages, and I believe there's a lot to say, and some of the starting points are listed. I think that you have also comforted all citizens and citizens a little bit, that everyone will not have to work until the age of 67. Maybe we should just add: At what age will they be able to retire? How many working hours are they going to need? For this is written in the white book. It is true, however, that we must do everything possible for young people to re-trust the first pillar pension system, as you mentioned, because if they do not have this guarantee, then they will not even want to join the employment market. We must certainly make every effort to employ as many young people as possible, and certainly ensure that the working age is between 55 and 65 and 67. Still, I'm curious: Can future pensioners expect lower or higher pensions at a new age? Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. The White Paper offers a variety of possible solutions. So at this point, it would be absolutely premature to say what the final solutions will be. The fact is that there are four different combinations of pension conditions proposed within the scheme. 67 is only one of them, it can also be retired at 63th, 65th, depending on the completed retirement age, but it is also a matter of negotiation. It should be stressed that this will be after the end of the transitional periods. So anything when we talk about 67th or something like that — 65th, 63rd. – let us keep in mind that we are talking more about my generation than anyone who is now just before retirement. This is current for a generation that will retire around 2040. As regards the level of pensions, it is crucial that we have two things in mind when designing the system: the financial sustainability of the system, which is one part of the salary, and on the other hand the dignity of pensions. Thus, since 2013, the adopted amendment has withdrawn the valorisation coefficients and the harmonisation of pensions back-to-back, thus achieving that the pension, the replacement ratio, is no longer lower. So in fact, today's calculated pensions are no longer falling compared to the past, when it was determined since 2000, when 85% of the replacement ratio fell, so now there was about 56, this decline has been stopped and even in the future, if we work longer, we will have a longer retirement period, we will have the same pensions as now. It is also a question of the relationship between the lowest and the highest. The White Paper also raises the issue of where we will pay our pension contributions, including the issue of capital taxation, in order to ensure the financing of what we are currently financing from the budget. Many different issues are opening up the White Paper and I believe that it will also be presented to the National Assembly in the context of the public debate, even within the Committees and beyond, it is also available on our website from last week, so that these discussions will take place and I look forward to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the finance minister Dr Dusan Maramor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u120	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble! I would like to ask you a question: At what stage is the transfer of the claims of Sava, d.d., from DUTB to SDH and to the Capital Company? The fact is that, at one of the January meetings, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the DUTB Assembly, decided to transfer the claims and bonds of the Sava, d. d., from the DUTB to SDH and the Capital Society. Finally, we can see that this was one of the great surprises and, above all, such an unusual decision adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We cannot go beyond the fact that this Decision is formally applicable and binding on the DUTB. I just want to know: At what stage and when will these claims and bonds be transferred from DUTB to SDH or to the Capital Society? The fact is that somehow the nominal value of these claims amounts to more than EUR 100 million. We know that in the past DUTB may have made some unusual moves with regard to Sava, d.d. Finally, DUTB lost most of the disputes that Sava had, d.d., in court. Now, in the media, we can read different interpretations to make this transfer of the claims of complications. But as it is known, the congregation is probably the largest body of society, the Government as the DURB Assembly has taken a decision, unusually or not, that this decision was taken at the government meeting when you were absent. I was wondering if you could briefly explain: At what stage is this transfer of claims? Can you tell when claims should also be transferred in accordance with the decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Dear Member of the Mags. Marco Pogačnik! As you said, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 28. 1. 2016 concluded as a meeting of the Claims Management Company and adopted a decision on the divestment of claims to the Sava, the Management and Financing Company, d. d., and the bonds issued by that company to the Slovenian State Holding and the Capital Society. In the decision, the Government provided that the transfer of payments should be made in accordance with the transfer values according to which DUTB received these risk items in the context of the implementation of measures to strengthen the stability of banks or at fair value or book value at day 30. 6. In 2015, if the latter are higher than the carry-over value increased for the cost – overall increased by the cost of financing at the weighting of the capital cost of DUTB at 4,2 % for the ownership time. The Government also provided that the DUTB would provide SDH and Kad, that DUTB, SDH and Kad would immediately make all the documentation available and provide all the information concerning the claims, the bonds which are the subject of the transfer. As you yourself have warned, the transfer of these claims and bonds has not yet been carried out. Taking into account the provisions of Articles 267 and 290 thereof, the decision of the Government to adopt a binding instruction to the management committee of the DUTB, to be implemented. We are informed at the Ministry of Finance that there is still a phase of a careful review of the documentation for the purpose of carrying out the transfer. At present, there is also a legal proceeding between DUTB and Sava Company concerning the shares of Sava Turizem before the District Court in Ljubljana, where the relevant settlement would end the dispute over the existence of the secured claim and, in accordance with such settlement, also actually establish secured claims such as were entered on the date of 28. 5. 2015 in the relevant public registers. The transfer must also be assessed from the point of view of the enforcement procedure, so that the value of these claims is maintained as far as possible. We expect agreement on the main parameters for transfers to DUTB, SDH and Kad to be reached shortly. With regard to the enforcement settlement, of course, it has a limited duration and also this judicial procedure, which is intended to end the dispute over the existence of the secured claim during the settlement, runs at the same time, so that this will be accepted in due course. But I can't tell you exactly what time it is, because it depends on these three procedures. For the first process, the review of documentation and the evaluation of these investments, I can say that the matter is agreed and this will be a short one, the audit house reviews these individual claims and their value on day 30. 6. 2015, this is an agreement between the three institutions. For the other two procedures, it is probably difficult to say exactly when they will be completed. However, all three must be concluded together so that the value of these claims is maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to request a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u124	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance, all that you've read, I'd say, is probably another big surprise why the government has decided to take such an unusual step. It would not be more likely that all these matters would have been checked before, rather than for the Government to adopt a decision which is binding and also formally applicable to the DUTB. Now you have yourself listed, I would say, at least three stages of the procedure, which must be done and probably a bunch of additional problems for the transfer of these claims. Strange moves are being made by this government and, above all, you must be responsible as Minister of Finance. If the Government has decided to adopt such a decision, it is likely that this transfer is now being made. But I want to know: Have you, as the Government or the Ministry of Finance, even checked with the Slovenian State Holding, or has free liquid assets to redeem these claims or bonds? For I have said that the nominal value of these claims exceeds EUR 100 million. Does it have any information that the DUTB is working or already has a legal opinion that would challenge this decision of the Government? I think there's a bunch of things out there that aren't right. This is probably another way of showing here that probably the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy and then the whole government are not harmonised. I am merely concerned that certain legal issues will be raised here and that these procedures will be delayed, as you have already mentioned for certain matters. I think it will be again to the detriment of taxpayers or to the detriment of Sava, d.d.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. In order to complete my answer, I give the floor to Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Why the Government adopted this decision, we know because SDH was expected to lose its equity share in the Sava process, d.d., thereby violating the State's Capital Investment Management Strategy Decision because this investment was classified as important and the State had to have at least 25% plus one share in that investment. That's why the government decided that before it came to this, the variants were more, the talk about which variant would be possible was a lot, but the government decided on this decision. This Decision does not set a time limit within which this is transferred and for me, as a finance minister, it is important that, in such a transfer, all the risks that this could create, or in order to reduce the value of these claims, be eliminated. That is why all these three procedures are ongoing, and when they are completed, this decision will also be implemented. That's all I can say right now. It is not at all; it is not a matter of delay, because these procedures run for a long time, even settlement does not close overnight, the enforcement settlement has its own schedule, but SDH and When want to have a clear picture of whether what has been published, also confirmed by the auditor, makes sense. Have we checked with SDH and Kad, whether the funds are large enough or not? Yes, at the time, on the basis of the data provided by the Ministry, we assessed that SDH and Kad could carry out such a payment transfer together. That's it, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u128	Good afternoon, Minister, ministers, everyone else here! In 2015, under the terms of the Public Finance Act, the Government entered into negotiations on the creation of an optional purchase entitlement of the preliminary right of the Republic of Slovenia to Soline’s business share, d.o.o. It was stated, in addition to the applicable environmental rules following the sale of Telekom Slovenije, d.o.o. in order to protect the public interests of the Republic of Slovenia. The technical services of both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Finance and the final phase of SDH, and of course including Telekom Slovenije, have joined in this search for solutions to regulate relations between the State and Solinami, d. o. o. These measures range from a change in the concession contract to a question of past investments in public infrastructure, to the possibility of purchasing a company from the State and beyond. Of course, in all this matter, as a member of the Coastal Council, I am interested in: What and how will happen to Sečovlje Solinas and this area, which has invaluable cultural, historical and, if I conclude, tourist value? That's why I want to know: How are the negotiations between the Government and the Solinas, d.o.o., on the one hand, as well as the Government and Telekom on the regulation of these three-partite or even more interrelationships? I'd also like to ask you: What legal questions are raised in this regard? Do you perhaps already have a timeline, say, of action and action regarding Soline, d. o. o.? Do we have any concrete answers as to how this will work? As you probably know, the Municipality of Piran was also one of the interested parties to take over the salts in management. On your part, I'd like to hear: How and what do you have to say about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Member Marko Ferruga! Thank you for asking. Perhaps you do not have to, but because you mentioned Sečovlje Soline in the middle, I would like to say that the land and therefore the buildings along with the properties in this park, which is not only a natural park, is not only a cultural heritage park in some small extent, but it is also an important park in terms of a living cultural heritage of salt by old procedures, owned by the state. And when we're talking about Solina, d. o. o., we're talking about, of course, a company that's not owned by the state. There will be no change for these parks or for the regimes established there to protect these natural sights and cultural sights. And there's nothing open about what I'm going to talk about. For Soline, d. o. o., I am now answering your question. It is true that, following Telekom’s failure to sell, the Ministry of Finance, our Ministry and, in cooperation with SDH, began to coordinate and prepare a proposal for a starting point for the continued regulation of the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Solinami, d.o.o. society and the company Telekom. This has already begun to be regulated in 2015. I find it difficult to take responsibility and I say when the proposal for a starting point will be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for confirmation, but I wish this proposal to be harmonised, of course it must be forwarded as soon as possible. If some people who participate in these groups estimate that this could happen in two months, I am more realistic myself, because I know that many times in final coordination there is still something to be opened up. This is mainly because Soline, d. o. o., or Telekom is actually suing the Government for investment in real estate, i.e. park and solina infrastructure, in the years 2003 to 2011, amounting to 3 million and about 200 000 euros. The main proceedings have already been called 13. 4. However, as a result of these coordination procedures, this main treatment was cancelled and postponed for approximately 18 months, since both parties agree that the level of investment should be unanimously harmonised. It is true, however, that the Republic of Slovenia, with Soline, d.o.o., has four concessional relations, two for the performance of the public service – i.e. the competence of the ILO – two for the use of natural resources or natural value. One of these is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and one under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. The period for which these concession contracts and these acts are adopted shall be until 2033. Between Soline, d. o. o., and the concessionaires, this is a state, there are many things open, but it is true that it is up to these further procedures to determine whether the concessionaire will remain as he has been chosen, or if he fails to carry out his duties sufficiently, of course the Republic of Slovenia will withdraw from this concession contract and re-enlist the possibility of carrying out these works for the other concessionaires. I wish the agreement itself to be successful and that the concessionaire, who also has employees who know the procedures, will be working well, and that this procedure will run as successfully as possible over the coming years as it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Marko Ferruga? No, no, no. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, a question which is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u132	Madam President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Last year we had an urgent meeting here in the National Assembly on the topic of emergency medical care or emergency centre, and this topic was then very excited by the Slovenian public and also by the profession. Only a year later, the Ministry of Health in the field of emergency centres took care of another shock. Look, we are witnessing that the Ministry is doing everything in secret, as well as emergency medical care, in the case that I will list below. At the end of March in Ljubljana, the Ministry of Health convened a meeting of all directors of the health homes of the Celje region and only at the meeting itself. The theme of this agenda was the organization of paediatric emergency centres. This is a pilot project to cover the target area. And what does that mean? This means that children who need treatment can be examined by their doctor during the week of 7 to 20 p.m. at the same time as a family medicine specialist, and that after 20 p.m. and during the on-call period, their parents must or will have to take their children to the pediatric emergency centre, that is, in our case, the Emergency Centre in Celje. So, in the afternoon, a good doctor will be able to treat a child, according to his selected doctor, and during the on-call period, parents with a sick child will have to visit a pediatric emergency center. What's the problem? Of course, because the Ministry has yet to take any account of the financing of the emergency centres in its assessment. The Ministry has prepared a new funding proposal to ensure that the funds for emergency medical care are not received by a healthcare centre but by a paediatric emergency centre, depending on the number of children in the municipalities covered by a health care home. In the future, it will no longer follow the rule that money will follow the patient, but it will be the rule that the patient follows the money. I wanted to ask the Minister the following question: Why can a family medicine specialist treat children during regular work and only a pediatrician during on-call? How does the Ministry explain the fact that most parents of their children will still be brought to the infirmary on duty, especially those from remote areas where children will be treated at primary level and the funds will be received by the emergency centre? Does this intention of the ministry mean that for the primary level in the coming period up to the year [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u133	It's a written answer. The secretary will give you a written answer. Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam President, and a very nice greeting, Mr. Minister! As I have written down, I will ask you a question about TET, it is called Thermoelectric Trbovlje in Closure, and generally about development policy in Zasavje. In fact, today I attended a meeting in Zagorje where we discussed the fate of TET and the development of energy in Zasavje with local authorities and representatives of energy. Unfortunately, after this meeting, I have to conclude that once again the complete indiscretion and inaccuracy of Slovenian policy in the development of this region has been demonstrated, which has been drawing ever since the referendum on the third block of Thermoelectric Trbovlje. In fact, in Trbovje and wider Zasavje, and especially in Trbovje, the most affected, there were sometimes more jobs than the inhabitants, and today this place, as well as the wider region, unfortunately, as previously recorded by the Finances, is rapidly developing in Slovenia's Greece. If we look at just the last case, the case of TET, we see that this is due to the complete lack of discretion in political decisions. Indeed, the closure of the TET was carried out without any plan being prepared to do with the employees, how to repair the degraded areas, how to handle the remaining facilities; it is said both by the depository and by the chimney as well as by the entire infrastructure of this thermal power plant. A temporary solution was found that about half the employees were fired, and half of them are still there because the thermal power plant with Eles has a signed contract on the so-called tertiary reserve, but it expires on 31 July. And from this deadline, the fate of both the thermal power plant and the landfill, which is a major environmental risk, is very uncertain, as is the 45 jobs that the thermal power plant currently provides. Today at the meeting, unfortunately, we have found that no decision on what you will do after 31 has been made by the Ministry, by the Government, by HSE. Seven. That's what you're gonna do after the Eles deal with the thermal power plant. In fact, some projections have been made for different scenarios, no solution has been adopted yet, and again it seems that we will be out of work, people will be out of work, the landfill will become dangerous to the environment and the inhabitants there, and the government is obviously not responding. That's why I have two questions. What, in particular, do you plan on saving these employees from the fate of those who were fired in the previous round? What are you going to do about the location of the thermal power plant? How do you view the general policies of development policy in Zasavje? When do we start to act and stop forgetting this region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gaspersic, to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor, for the question raised by Mr Luke Mesec. What was happening in the Rippers and with the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, I would hardly say that any surprise we know that the situation that led to this has been known long before; that is, we have run out of energy. [[…]] The Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine was shut down and the thermal power plant was placed in front of a situation where it had to either find a solution to the supply of energy from elsewhere. This is, I will say, the company has tried, including the mother, the roof company in which the TET works, that is HSE, has been working intensively in this regard, but unfortunately there has not been an appropriate solution. There were some attempts, so at the end there was no other way than to announce then this liquidation, which no one loved and no one liked. However, as it is said, this is a solution to these issues within the competence of companies, within the competence of the management of companies, not directly within the power of the Government. From this point of view, it is also difficult for me to comment on all these matters on what the Government will do to keep the employees. We, as far as systemic matters are concerned, which are within the power of the Government, are dealing with business decisions, and this is then a purely business decision and competence of these companies. This is also the case with respect to the tertiary reserve, which you are duly informed that the matter under this Treaty will be concluded on 31 July. This service for Eles is provided by the company under GEN energy, including in cooperation with HSE companies. Whether after that time an agreement will be reached to continue to provide this service is again entirely within the purview of these companies. So I can't give you any more concrete answers. However, the fact remains that even if this extension does not occur, this means, of course, an important distortion of these processes, which are now being carried out there, but will still remain the storage of oil reserves at this location as well as all the municipal and energy supply of this location. What would be the potential for the solution or revitalisation of this location, even with this issue, by HSE, and by the information available to us at the Ministry, was commissioned a special study on the revitalisation of this location, where four variants were processed, so that the location would be completely emptied, so that all facilities would be removed so that the site would be partially emptied, so that only the most disruptive objects could be removed, then a zero variant would be processed, meaning that the existing situation would be maintained, and then the option to seek solutions in potentially alternative energy facilities was also processed. Each of these options, as HSE notes, is unfortunately time-consuming and financially demanding that HSE be able to implement it. In fact, there is a big question about what could be done. I can also say that, as far as the chimney is concerned, none of these options actually deals with the issue of the chimney breaking, so that some solutions should be found for the chimney to be preserved as a technological monument. As far as other things are concerned with the fate of energy in Zasavje, I can say that we are actively looking for ways to activate activities on the construction of hydropower plants in the Central Sava, which means that it is necessary to find an investor and then activate all activities to place them in space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you. I'm not happy with the answer because I'm actually asking you at the same time to invite you. In fact, as you yourself have said, the situation is not new, we know about the situation in Zasavje since the referendum, it is said that it will be necessary in some way – it was clear at that time that a compensation should be found for both the mine and the thermal power plant, which provided most jobs mainly in the trunks, but the policy was winking and did nothing. Now we're back a little bit ahead of schedule, it's 31. 7. When we move again and do nothing, otherwise the four scenarios you mention are ready, but no decisions have been made yet, or it has only been decided that none of these four scenarios are good. So they are not good or gas power plants, nor are they good or incinerators, the objections are also against the tertiary reserve, which I think is personal, but given that it already exists and that we have no alternative prepared, virtually the only short-term alternative both for the location and for the deposit, and for the employees there. So in this sense, I ask you at the same time, and I call you: How do you think about how to proceed after 31. Seven? What will the Ministry do to resolve all three issues? It is said that 45 employees who are highly trained in this sector have all received appropriate energy tests and so on and once these employees leave, it will be very difficult to keep this location in any way possible. Second of all, I want to know: How will you face your environmental risk? And the third time: What are you going to do with this location? At the same time, if I touch the hydropower plant on Sava quickly, there is a problem here that, for the first time, there is a problem that probably there are not many jobs in this, and for the second time that it is a long-term project. So if we wanted to build all 10 hydro power plants, today there were estimates that this would take about 30 years. People live there, as I said, in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much. To complement my reply, I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I would like to reiterate when you ask me what the Government will do to keep employees. These matters are within the purview of the companies. We know who runs the companies, it's not the government. In fact, the government cannot directly decide what will happen to these employees, which is the responsibility of the management of these companies. These companies are looking for solutions, but, of course, these solutions must always be such that companies operating on the market are able to deliver these solutions. It is always necessary to look here for a solution that is sustainable, which these societies can also maintain for a long time. Around this tertiary reserve, we know there are other solutions. Eles is ordering this service on the market and then here is the matter of the offer, how and how, therefore, this service is provided to Eles. I hope that there will be another way to continue this activity. But it is not, once again, in the direct competence of the Government to decide on it. These are entirely economic decisions that must be taken on market principles. As for the long-term, or even the question of what will happen to these environmental risks. It is also within the competence of the company or now the mother of HSE, of course it would be much easier if this facility were still functioning and could work further. Of course, since the matter is in the liquidation process, if the facilities cannot be removed or found any other purpose, those facilities which are environmentally sound may also be allocated to, for example, interested companies or local communities which could find any activity for these facilities. For those objects, which are environmentally objectionable, unfortunately, at the final stage, if no suitable solution is found for them, then this burden falls in the final stage on the back of the country, so this outcome of the liquidation is basically, like the Government, of course, not taken kindly. We were very concerned that this had happened. As far as the construction of hydropower plants is concerned, I fully agree with you that this is a long-term process, that just a lot of jobs will not come directly from this energy, but in my opinion it will allow some other activities, including the tourist ends of the lakes, to be developed. This is how we strive to get at least these three hydropower plants in this area of Zasavja as quickly as possible; in short, to accommodate in space and then to build. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u142	I think we've reached the heart of the problem. In view of what I heard this morning, and given what you have just told me, we have essentially a situation which I think is virtually identical to everything from the referendum; it is said that this is a classic transfer of responsibility. The government says that it is not in our power to do so, companies say that by means of the government and the ministry, we do not get instructions, guidance and in some way shifts responsibility, pingpongigate and hand-in-hand this responsibility, and, of course, those who lose their jobs because of inactivity, those who live in a degraded environment and so on. First of all, it would be my call — given that it is very urgent — that is, the deadline is 31. 7. To talk to companies at the Ministry and in the Government. Today, too, they expressed a very clear desire to sit down and discuss how to resolve this situation. So that would be a call to you. However, my procedural initiative for the National Assembly would be to discuss how to even seduce development policy in Zasavje, because, as I said, because of the inactiveness of all of us, both governments and broader policies, this region has been dying for more than a decade and has virtually no clear development perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Luka Moon. Your request will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19. 4. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u144	Madam President, thank you for your word. Hello to the Minister! My question concerns the integration of children of foreigners into the Slovenian educational system. In view of the migration crisis, given that there is an increasing number of speeches, that we will include or that we are already involving migrant children, there will be growing problems with the learning of the Slovenian language or the integration of these children. My question concerns more about the already existing or already existing situation, sometime in 2007, I think that a strategy on the integration of children into education for the integration of immigrants was adopted at the College of Ministers and later in 2012 these integration guidelines were adopted. Article 8 of the Basic School Act states that in the Republic of Slovenia the mother tongue is Slovenian and that when included in the primary school it is organised to teach the Slovenian language for foreign speaking children. According to some data, in the school year 2015-2016, about 5%, slightly less than 5% of children who are foreign-speaking and are enrolled in primary and secondary schools. However, I must say that the principals are being asked an increasing question or growing problems with the integration of children, or especially in understanding the Slovenian language of these children. The Ministry has guidelines, has legislation and, on the other hand, requires some rationalisation in this, i.e. integration into the groups of children, teaching the Slovenian language before inclusion, and directors report that they have fewer and fewer financial resources and that there are major difficulties in involving these children, especially young children, who, when entering primary school or in the process themselves, do not know the Slovenian language and, in fact, also have social, mental and other problems in these children, while at the same time a regular education is disrupted. I am interested, given that these guidelines and the strategy were adopted so many years ago – 2007 with the Minister, 2012 the strategy, whether the Ministry of Education is planning to change these strategies, any new guidance to the principals that these children, we are talking about these children who, say, came to Slovenia three, four years ago, still do not know, regrettably, Slovenian language and include them in the first class or in secondary school. Some comments were also made by the parents and also by the administrators. So, I want to know: What information does the Ministry have on these problems? What plans does he have in the future to avoid such anomalies, so that these children can be better integrated into primary school and not suffer from the education process?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u146	Your Honor, Madam President, Your Honor, the House of Honor! As regards the guidelines and, above all, the adopted strategy, the fact is that this has helped crucially to the projects that have taken place since 2008 with the so-called aim of intercultural cooperation and the integration of children into the education system in a way that we can now say that we are introducing the so-called two-stage model of child inclusion. I am talking in general about the children of immigrants, not only what is happening today in the light of the migrant crisis or the children of refugees or immigrants. What is taking place at this time is, in particular, at the level of the professional work, the implementation of the introductory and follow-up works, this two-step model, which focuses first on integration into the general cultural environment, which is a very important part of learning the Slovenian or the language in which the child’s environment comes or is also a youth without an escort. Prior to inclusion in the regular course for these children, this so-called in-house or repair facility shall be organised. This is about 20 hours apart. They are then included in the regular course, but gradually, but also have additional professional assistance in learning Slovenian, especially in a concise form of implementation, this is a so-called follow-up. In fact, all of this has been happening since the projects that have been nominated, when quite a few schools have already been included. This project today also has an upgrade in the so-called working group of directors that carried out these projects before the beginning of this project. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u147	Time's not running properly because you've turned off the interface [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u148	Excuse me. May I continue, or is that the conclusion?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u149	It's about two minutes away. Please respond in these two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u150	Only perhaps quickly: even at the student level, these problems with language use are observed. Also there is this so-called accompanying programme where they can be included in these special groups. At this point, for example, at Livada Elementary School, we have 29 children, where this is the first way of dealing with Slovenian language and then, of course, the gradual introduction into regular forms of learning. They also have a special status in NPZ, they have a special status in evaluation, and understanding and inclusion in all forms of other activities is behind, so not only directly in the school course itself. However, the directors have pointed out this and this expert group also works within the Ministry, and more about this is already mentioned for directors, parents and the general public on the Ministry's web site, which we have already presented before.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec, you have the floor to request that the Minister's response be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u152	Just what you said is being warned by the principals that these anomalies are coming. I want to know: Does the ministry think it's enough to take 20 hours, even if it's part of a group? In fact, I know quite a few examples from my previous job and also as a parent that a child simply comes to school and does not have a classroom because of parental rejection. I think there's a lot of problems here. You also gave me an answer about students in Mengš who practiced in kindergarten and that kindergarten interrupted because they had, for example, a weak knowledge of Slovenian language, non-compliance with rules, frequent use of the phone, had no slippers and did not want to use working gowns. I want to know: Do many of these children then just because they reject certain things because they do not know the Slovenian language and do not integrate or understand the learning process, they also experience a large rash of these children and they stay literally, if I may say, on the road, without education? I think the ministry should be in this area, because then there's the question of if I go back to, for example, the students, because it's also an example for which I've asked the question: How, then, do they complete the educational process if they do not carry out the practice if they do not perform all the obligations? I'd like to put it again, given the time before, also: What are these guidelines in the future so that such things do not happen — even the rash of these children, who eventually lose their education, the question is whether they stay on the road or whatever, can become a social problem. What are these guidelines in the future at the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you very much. To complement my reply, I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you very much. It is precisely for the reason we have before us that the project of so-called teacher empowerment is also designed to create greater competences for children of immigrants or adolescents, especially unaccompanied adolescents. Let me say that the so-called – in English we use this internationally – early leavers, i.e. those who leave early school, in Slovenia in one of the smallest shares in Europe. This is also a reflection of how we are trying, with similar incentives, to ensure, of course, that the integration project of the wider community is as small as possible, especially for young people who leave school too quickly. We had a similar project involving Roma children, Roma young people and then wider training – even when it is already necessary for adults, although they are young, to provide additional training, in particular, Slovenian language or other necessary competences. We are also cooperating internationally in this direction, and we will also prepare a special expert meeting on this subject in the coming days, because we also want to allow the experience of other countries to transfer as many of these good practices to schools as possible. But it is true that, of course, young people are very different here by themselves after whether children with any level of knowledge are already coming to school and are actually taking place individually at this point in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will raise a question of the delegation to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u156	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! We have witnessed many of the human resources frauds of the ruling coalition and the consequences of such acts recently, on Friday, when the three newly appointed supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank withdrew from their posts. Some of us in the past, when appointing first the administration of the Slovenian State Holding, which is responsible for the recruitment of state-owned companies, and not least when new supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank were appointed, warned that those people who were guilty or who took part in responsible positions in the New Ljubljana Bank at the time when the Bank of New Ljubljana became a bank hole that those people, those persons should not participate in the leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank, should not become supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank, because they also do not meet all the conditions. And before these people could be held accountable for not meeting all the conditions for the management of the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank, these gentlemen, of course, resigned on Friday. They have indicated that they give way to distortions and pressures, and we ourselves know from behind-the-clock information that they would not obtain the necessary licences or licences both for both the ECB and the Bank of Slovenia to perform their functions. In fact, it seems that we have made a sandstone from the New Ljubljana Bank with this ruling coalition, a specific sandstone, when we go, who is ours, who is yours, and we set up, at home, by home, people without any responsibility. The consequence of such an action is that today we have an incomplete supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank, we are without the administration of the New Ljubljana Bank, bearing in mind that we have invested billions of euros in tax money in this State Bank, and that doing is irresponsible. As a result, Mr. Secretary, I ask you, I'm not worried about resigning as such, I'm concerned about the individual moves that have taken place. This supervisory board was appointed by the SDH administration to resolve the management of the New Ljubljana Bank, and after the management of the New Ljubljana Bank was resolved or resigned before the resolution, these gentlemen resigned – the tail between the legs went away. I ask you, Mr. Secretary, as responsible, I ask you: Will you call on the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding to examine the responsibility of the management of SDH in the appointment of supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank? Will you call the SDH Assembly if the Governing Council does not release SDH?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Dr. Dusan Marble, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Perhaps some clarifications regarding the arrangements for the appointment of members of the supervisory boards of banks governed by the Banking Act. This lays down the conditions to be met by members of the Supervisory Boards, these conditions fully follow the requirements of European legal acts, including the Directive on access to the activities of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions of investment firms and the guidelines of the European Banking Authority on the assessment of the suitability of members of management or control bodies and holders of key functions. I would stress that the conditions to be met by a member of the supervisory board of the State-owned bank are exactly the same as those to be met by members of the supervisory boards of all other banks. The only question that is different from the appointment of these members to the supervisory board of the other banks in the appointment of the members of the supervisory board is the question of who shall carry out an assessment of the eligibility of the candidate for a member of the supervisory board prior to his appointment. The seventh paragraph of Article 29 of the Bank's Stability Measures Act has granted SDH the competence to assess the eligibility of the candidate for members of the Bank's Supervisory Board. This is due to the fact that SDH has already established its candidate verification system for members of the supervisory boards in accordance with the SDH Act, but regardless of the above, it is considered that SDH must also take into account the conditions and criteria laid down by the Banking Act and the acts issued on the basis of it by the member of the Board of Supervisors. Since it follows that the conditions for a member of the supervisory boards of the bank are the same, irrespective of the nature of the shareholders, and in line with the provisions of the European legal acts, we are not considering legislative changes at this time, but, of course, as a department, we are monitoring the procedures for appointing members of supervisory boards in state-owned banks, and we will consider legislative changes if these proved to be weak. However, as regards this recent resignation of three SDH supervisory board members, we believe that it is not possible to challenge the basic principle of corporate governance, that the owner or its authorised administrator has the right to appoint a member of the supervisory board through the assembly. At the same time, we stress that before being appointed, SDH has carried out all the procedures for the examination of candidates as required by the previous acts. The Bank itself has the possibility, under the Banking Act, that after the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board, it shall assess their suitability at all times and the Bank of Slovenia may, in certain cases, subsequently prohibit the performance of the function. This is certainly possible, but it is possible that ex ante and ex post assessments of appropriateness can lead to different assessments of the actual situation. In order to avoid this in the future and to ensure the full transparency of the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards, I think it would be appropriate for the Bank of Slovenia, as well as the bank owned by the State, to be familiar with SDH's assessment methodology for members of the Supervisory Boards and to make valuations of their suitability, which is particularly crucial, as well as the source of the assessment data. We will thus achieve that the same provisions will also be applied – as it seems, these are, as you said, behind-the-clock information. I don't have this information, and I'm the Minister of Finance. Since Banka Slovenije is an independent institution and has its own special commission, which assesses individual candidates, and also the Governor does not deal with it, but only this commission, such sharing of information and principles and data sources should not then lead to a difference between the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia and the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia and the opinion of SDH on the appropriateness of assessments. These candidates have resigned themselves, so now it's speculation, what happened back there, and I can't do that as a minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Rotovec, will you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u160	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. But look, the government is the Assembly of the Slovenian State Holding and is responsible. I'm specifically asking you: As a finance minister, as a member of this ruling coalition, do you feel responsible that we do not have a bank administration in the New Ljubljana Bank today, and not the full or full supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank? You also remember that taxpayers have invested billions of euros in the New Ljubljana Bank. The second point is that we are in the sales process with the New Ljubljana Bank and my question is: What are those signals? Furthermore, I know that these gentlemen have resigned because of the discredit and the pressures that have taken place. But these gentlemen were appointed by the SDH administration as new supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank solely for one purpose; and this is to replace the administration of the New Ljubljana Bank. Since the then President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank did not want to be replaced, he resigned on his own, he said so. Just before we're supposed to get these permits, these gentlemen are stepping down. And you can imagine, in this case, how embarrassing it would be for these people to insist to the end as supervisors and then get a warning from the European Central Bank that they do not meet the conditions. However, they replaced the board of the New Ljubljana Banks and replaced it – the administration of the Nova Ljubljanska Banka. I just want to remind you that the Government should really follow the OECD guidelines on corporate governance when it comes to human resources, but not the so-called domestic policy of human resources in this sandbox and as a sandbox we really choose the New Ljubljana Bank, at least it seems in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I would say that the Government adheres to the rules on the corporate governance of the OECD, because with these adjustments the members of the NLB supervisory boards had nothing because SDH did so, which is then in charge of corporate governance. The final result is that at present there were as many members of the Governing Council as there had been before the amendments — six — because of the fact that one of the seven large supervisory boards before these changes was always missing and there were six members. At the same time, the Supervisory Board also has the President of the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board is functioning normally. The management works, so NLB does. If there are derogations, we know who is responsible for the full composition of the Supervisory Board after this corporate administration. For everything else, why someone was set up and so forth, I must say, as Minister of Finance, I don't know anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, you have a request for a procedural proposal here.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u164	I would like the National Assembly to discuss the New Ljubljana Bank and, in general, the recruitment, which is why I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we hold this debate at one of the next meetings on my issue. However, I have one more comment: see how the recent developments in the New Ljubljana Bank have also been commented on by Deutsche Bank, who works as a consultant for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. The new Ljubljana Bank, I stress, must be sold by the end of 2017 under the provisions of the European Commission, otherwise we will be taxpayers again who will be killed. Indeed, Mr Minister, this meeting should also give us an opportunity to discuss what Deutsche Bank is saying in this case. SDH, you said, was in charge. Of course, SDH is in charge and the Government as the Assembly is also responsible, the Government as the Assembly is responsible for the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. We have talked about this in this House on several occasions since the recruitment of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank is not the only precedent that has taken place in this mandate or only since the appointment of the new administration of the Slovenian State Holding. Let us also recall other sales of companies that went back to their homes. Since the government is not considering amending legislation, the honourable Minister, the respected Government, is considering New Slovenia. Very soon, we will table a proposal for a Banking Act that will speak or that will go in this direction, that those individuals who in the past have participated in any way in the creation of a bank hole have been held accountable in the administrations during this period and have been under international standards, as well as under domestic legislation, so guilty in this period, these people, in accordance with this amendment, cannot and must no longer sit in supervisory boards or other bank managements. This is the only way that unsuccessful people can no longer be recruited into bank positions. These last supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank, look, these people were previously in the New Ljubljana Bank and were in positions of responsibility during the period when the bank hole was created – Luxembourg, Montenegro – they were in positions of responsibility during this period. They were supervisors of the state bank, not some private bank. And then, so irresponsiblely on the neck of your nose, before you give out your license or don't pass it, then the door to your nose will stand down. I stress in particular the responsibility of the Government, which has power and which has influence, and I know that if you, as a finance minister, would not agree with the appointment, you could also prevent it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask a question to the Minister without a department responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mr Gorazd Žmavc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the ministers and the ministers! I ask the distinguished Minister for Slovenians around the world and Mr Gorazd Žmavc's replacement in connection with Slomak as an organisation covering Slovenians in the place. In fact, a working meeting was recently invited by the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, where the invitation stated that Slomak is the umbrella organisation of Slovenians from Italy, Austria, Hungary and Croatia and covers virtually all these organisations. In the past, there have been quite a number of meetings with Slomak as an institution representing Slovenians in place. In the past, there has been some inadequacy, especially with regard to the competence of the Slomak as a umbrella organization. Two years ago, when Slomak was also present at the National Assembly at the President of the National Assembly, a number of specific questions were raised regarding the way Slomak works, organises and tasks. At that time, the National Assembly also asked for these documents to be delivered to the National Assembly. I don't have any information on whether this was done. I'm interested in the minister responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, and I'm actually asking: On what basis is Slomak appointed as the umbrella organization of the Slovenes in place? Are all these questions that have occurred in the past with regard to the competence to cover Slomak on behalf of all organisations at this time in fact in line with all the umbrella organisations as we know them in our home, especially Italy and Austria, where these umbrella organisations are actually active? In the past, Slomak did not play a major role in this direction. Now, in view of this last visit, I ask the Minister a question, and I expect an answer: Are these formal obstacles, or formal complications, actually removed from the past, and is Slomak, as the invitation put it, actually the umbrella organization for all these Slovenians? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u167	Minister Gorazd Žmavc, will you respond? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u168	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to thank Member Daniel Krivec for the question raised that I will also somehow be given the opportunity to give my view of this attitude to the so-called Slovenian Minority Coordination, which was established in 2004 as an interest association to represent minority policy and was quite active until 2010. Since 2010, this activity has fallen, and we have also seen this, but we estimate that, given your question of legitimacy and also the content of the work, which I understand from your question, I am also giving myself the answer that this organisation has probably been established and in accordance with Article 11 of the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders, in particular in the sense that Slovenia supports the integrity, subjectivity and autonomy of the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and respects the organised forms of this single representation of individual communities. This may result in the fact that this form of Slomak is a legitimate right, and so do I. However, we cannot, nor do we have any reservations here to oppose this initiative. Of course, we also raise this question, as Minister, that the content and topics that open up such meetings are important, especially from this point of view, because then they are important – what you have asked – the competences and responsibilities of such decisions or such coordination of those interests. That is why at the very beginning of my mandate, when I saw this problem and perhaps at the time the inactivity of action or uncoordinated certain interests, I convened this interview with the presidents of all the supervisory organisations of the Slovenian communities in the neighbouring countries, and in some way agreed that our most important form of action is as a minister with the presidents of the umbrella organisations in some sense of the college – the joint coordination of these interests within us as ministries and presidents of the umbrella organisations. I must say that in two years, two and a half years, these meetings have produced quite good results, we have acted somehow without this coordination successfully and constructively. The views on the further operation and activities of this minority coordination are now a matter of the very interest of the umbrella organisations, but the themes are different, the problems are different, so that from this point of view the Office has an interest in working primarily with the umbrella organisations, because it also has responsibilities for policy, financing and everything else. However, I must point out that we do not specifically finance this association; we are funding roof organisations themselves. On this issue, as regards the visit you have raised, I was also informed by the President of the Commission that they have announced this visit, but in the form of annual meetings, perhaps a presentation. However, I think that some topics in this direction will have to be opened below. Thank you very much, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you, Minister, for this part of the answer, but I don't know if I've been very understanding. It is a question of the legal basis and of the answer to what was in the reference we have in the National Assembly. Is Slomak the umbrella organization of all Slovenians from Italy, Austria, Hungary and Croatia? Because you've been talking in response all the time about roof organisations representing individual minorities. And this has always been a dilemma in the past, which is why I have also pointed out with this question in the House because it is representativeness. It is who, in certain cases, intervenes by minority organisations to representations in the country of origin or to the National Assembly or to the commission or to a ministry. If we write in the materials we have in the National Assembly that Slomak is the umbrella organization of all our neighbouring countries, that means that in cases of formal access or in particular problems, Slomak represents all other umbrella organizations; does he not?Oh, my God! This has been a dilemma all along, and that is why I want a clear answer to be found in this regard. At this meeting last week, I think it has been pointed out that the activity of the Slovenian substitute has dropped significantly in recent years, and that is what Slomak has pointed out. However, this is just content, and I would still like to hear your specific answer about formalities. Is Slomak the umbrella organisation over these individual institutions operating in Italy, Austria, Hungary and Croatia and representing them in relation to our country, as stated in this paper, or is it not? Because this has been a dilemma all along, we also ask about this legal basis and how it works in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Gorazd Žmavc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u172	Commissioner, I, too, believe that this association does not have the status of a umbrella organisation and is indeed a matter of competence and responsibility in such representations of interests. However, I personally think that the answer is that there is probably a basis for pooling some interests through this Article 11 and can be linked and co-operated. If they have interests and then they are also articulated, then the procedure must be coordinated with carriers, legal entities; these are umbrella organisations. We're together here. Otherwise, I may be in favour of such an issue when these associations take the initiative, as was the case last month, when they launched an initiative on an international conference on European standards, minority protection in the Council of Europe, and that this is coordinated and that these activities are also leading in this direction. Perhaps an initiative that I am clearly taking, and we can also work together. Otherwise, my explicit answer is the same as you asked me – roof organisations are in fact defined by law and are also a legitimate legal representative in relation to the application of funds and to the policy we are leading. I think this topic is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u174	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The question is addressed to the Minister. At your Ministry there is a Regulation on the methodology for determining the value of water and coastal land in the procedures for the disposal, acquisition and loading of these land by building rights. The draft Regulation lays down in Article 4 in which cases a State may acquire free water land and methods of disposal of those water and coastal land which have ceased to be a natural water public good, the status of built water public goods or the status of water infrastructure. The availability is defined only as a pay-per-view. However, nowhere does the Regulation provide for the free disposal of those water and coastal land owned by the Republic of Slovenia, as provided for by the Real Estate Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities in Article 24. In accordance with that Article, the immovable property of the State and the self-governing local communities may also be disposed of free of charge; however, only if the acquirer is a person of public law other than public undertakings and it is in the public interest. At the same time, the Regulation on the methodology for determining compensation for service on water and coastal land owned by the Republic of Slovenia remains in force, which, according to the responses of the various organisations in which the municipalities merge, causes confusion and indignation. They believe that it would be more reasonable that the methodology for determining compensation for service on water and coastal land should be laid down in one sub-legislative regulation, taking into account the symbolicity of payment or the free loading of water and coastal land with real rights, if that is in the public interest. One of the goals that our government is supposed to pursue, which is often highlighted by your colleague, the Minister of Public Administration, is to make the municipalities as financially burdensome as possible. I ask you, Madam Minister: Do you think that this regulation, which is in preparation and does not include the possibility of free removal of certain water and coastal land, is in line with the Government's guidelines for the most effective financial burden of Slovenian municipalities? If you feel that this is the case, I ask you nicely to explain how this financial burden of the congregations should be reduced by that rule. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you, Vice-President Primož Hainz. Dear Members, honourable Members! Member of the Commission, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, thank you for the question. It is true that the Regulation, which is in preparation and relates to the methodology for determining the value of water and coastal land in the process of the disposal, acquisition and loading of these land by building rights, directly meets the Government's guidelines for the maximum financial burden of Slovenian municipalities. In the process of cross-cutting coordination, however, the Act on measures to balance the public finances of municipalities, which envisaged in the draft free of charge the acquisition of services and building rights on water and coastal land, later adopted the position and direction of the Government, which was coordinated with the municipalities or their representatives. It was agreed that services and building rights on water and coastal land should remain at general, systemic level; however, the derogation from the principle of repayment could only be granted to individual facilities as an exception to the general rule, namely those which are necessarily connected to water and coastal areas. These objects are objects that cross watercourses such as bridges, deserts, ropes and access. For these facilities, service and building rights should be charged symbolically. The Regulation thus includes an exception to the amount of the building right compensation, so that the amount of compensation for public access to the road, such as bridges, eyebrows, roads, amounts to 5 % of the other compensation. In absolute terms, ensuring the total free removal of water land owned by Slovenia is impossible for the following reasons: European Union legislation in the field of water and the environment lays down the mandatory principle of paying the burden-bearing agent, and therefore the burden of intervention, pollution or use of water must be subject to payment from the point of view of the burden. Water and coastal land owned by the State are attractive because of easier service acquisition compared to the acquisition of service on other land such as land owned by natural persons. In order to ensure a hydrological regime in the water and coastal area, facilities which are not necessarily bound to this area do not belong. The State also pays for the construction of water infrastructure on land owned by the municipality. Here in particular, I stress that the Law on the Real Property of the State and the Communities does not apply to the area of water; this is because of the specificity of water and coastal land and because of the public interest it requires to manage these land. Land owned by the State shall be exempted from legal transport. In order to relieve the financial burden of municipalities and also to remove administrative obstacles, our ministry and government have carried out a number of activities. In order to prepare the Regulation under consideration, it was necessary to amend the Water Act first; this was carried out last year, and you confirmed it. It is prepared for this regulation, which you yourself have listed, and is published for public consultation; it will then be forwarded to inter-departmental coordination. The level of service payments has already been reduced by amending the rules governing service, and some exceptions have also been set. The Water Act lays down rules for the management of water land, which terminates the status of natural water public goods due to a natural event or an intervention into the space. In certain cases, such land may also be transferred to the property of the local community free of charge. However, with regard to the Regulation on the methodology for fixing remuneration for the service of ordinary and coastal land, I explain that it has not expired and will continue to apply. Also in the Water Act, the service arrangements remained the same. The amendment of this Regulation will not even result in a financial burden on the municipalities, as the service is not granted for facilities that are necessarily connected to water. If I look at 2014, Arso has prepared 36 building rights contracts, which is nine tenths of all applications. It's bridges, and one tenth of building rights have been granted in connection with the specific use of water. This is about possible access to the watercourse.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a follow-up, Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Not as much as a complement to the response, but mainly to the presentation of a specific case of one of the smaller municipalities that invested in local economic infrastructure, that is to say, as you mentioned, or objects crossing watercourses, bridges, viaducts, and had to pay only three times if we are talking about a symbolic payment, EUR 2 000 160, in another case EUR 3 000 500. Speaking of which, this is a symbolic payment, we cannot say that 20 000 798 000 euros had to be paid for the service right. If it were, as you said, a symbolic payment, then a bilateral relationship, a bilateral symbolic payment, would be expected. When the averages are reduced, the municipalities need to understand their proposals, since each euro counts in smaller municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u180	Perhaps I would like to return to what has already been said, namely that this amount is reduced for building rights and is in fact symbolic values. Not for the service. I suggest you talk to the mayors about the difference in the acquisition of building rights or services; whether it is possible to reshape that provision or contract or compensation. When we were talking, we didn't find the anniversary when it was charged. I think we need to look for solutions that are available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Počivalška, who is absent; and Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister for Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u182	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question is addressed to Minister Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration in the Republic of Slovenia, of course in the area of land in industrial zones by local communities. Dear Minister! We are certainly both aware, and we also agree that every job in the Republic of Slovenia is extremely important. We are also aware that local communities have different problems in this area. Many local communities, I have in mind the congregation, have quite a few of these lands available, one of them has too many, one of them is busy and a lot of strength and effort to adopt the UN to reach these lands. When we talk about these lands, on the one hand there are differences in prices – prices of municipal contributions, municipal arrangements for these lands. The question arises when an investor – whether this land needs a domestic investor, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia; or whether he wants to invest in this industrial land, build his own production abroad. At that time, it often gets stuck because the prices of these lands are certainly too high. On the one hand, domestic investors travel across the border to neighbouring Austria, Hungary, Poland or elsewhere. Above all, it is often a sad and also a big problem when a foreign investor does not find a common language, in particular it is overpriced. I ask you, dear Minister, this also applies to the Minister of Economy, to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Is there any change in this segment in order to allow municipalities to find a common language — since these lands are accountingly misled at some level — in order to find a common language with an investor, or with a Slovenian or a foreigner, and to sell this land, of course, for the benefit of new jobs? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u184	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! While MJU does not have jurisdiction in determining the price of placing industrial zones in space, I will try to explain from our point of view. The Law on Real Estate of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities already provides that property must not be sold or traded below the estimated value, unless it relates to the sale or exchange of property owned by self-government local communities and is in accordance with spatial acts intended for the development or activities of industrial and commercial zones. This possibility exists in the marriage today. In doing so, it is necessary to take into account the conditions laid down in respect of the public procurement and the implementation of the local community's development programme. The law already allows this option. In doing so, it is important to be careful that the rules relating to State aid are also taken into account so that local communities do not come into conflict here on this issue, when and in what form state aid can be granted. However, according to my information, the Ministry of the Economy is already preparing a special regulation to directly promote and establish industrial zones for attracting foreign investors, which will allow the sale of property owned by local communities to the estimated value when it comes to attracting new jobs and investors, because this is precisely the price that the local community can offer in industrial zones, as you can see for yourself, is extremely important. However, it is necessary to determine the sales procedure, the method of pricing, the criteria for selecting the buyer. This must also be regulated in this Regulation. Let me also say that I have experience when we were looking for investors abroad for some areas, that Spirit also prepared an overview of the actual land available in various industrial areas; and we found that today there are quite a number of these land available to investors. On the basis of this law, which already exists today, they can also conclude sales agreements under that estimated value. If this is in accordance with the spatial acts of the local community at that time, such an agreement is also possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u186	Thank you, Your Honor, for your answer. The fact is that some things make it possible, as you yourself have mentioned; but there is also the fact that in the Republic of Slovenia, we have legislation, and also as you can see, to the estimated value of these land, which is available in some local communities, a satisfactory quantity, as I mentioned earlier; on the other hand, they are also struggling to obtain these land. But it is a fact that in this legislation, it is often the will of all of you to leave — either a home investor leaves or a foreign investor does not decide to invest in our country. As we both have noted before, every job is extremely important. Therefore, Minister, I ask you not to happen to us in the future, that someone who has spent six months trying to find a common language in our country goes across the border, a little across the border to Austria, Hungary or elsewhere, and builds production halls there. As a result, there are also new jobs, there are people in employment, and what is of great importance to the country – they start paying taxes. For this reason, I ask you and the Minister of Economy to do everything possible in this area and to be more elastic in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u188	I will pass this question on to the Ministry of the Economy because it concerns him more. We are trying very hard to win over foreign investors. I have quite some experience myself, usually the investor is interested in the price of land and the price of labour. I've been involved in a few cases myself. We need to know that we have difficulty competing with the cost of the labour force if you want, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria. Our labour force is more expensive, and on the other hand we need to know that we need to protect public interest in the price of land, because these land are publicly owned and can only be sold below the estimated value if it really proves to be beneficial for a local environment in the long term. There's still room for that. I will continue to work hard to increase these options in the future, but given the need to protect public interest and that such investment must indeed in the long term bring to the environment in which it operates those benefits that we expect from it. Not only the well-being of the investor himself, but also the wider environment. Here these two interests must always be weighed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Since the Minister is absent, please identify yourself in the manner of reply. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, in the introduction, let me say that, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall insist on the Minister's oral reply. This is a question relating to the appointment of the Director-General of the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. The fact is, for two and a half years now, the Ljubljana University Clinical Centre has no director-general, but it has been performed by the perpetrator of the duties. Since this is a top-notch organisation in the field of health, we would, of course, expect that we will also have proper clean management of the institution. If we add to this the event at the University Clinical Centre in Maribor, where foreign language for communication is to be introduced, and not Slovenian, then this is certainly one of the outstanding issues. But let me stay at the University Clinical Center in Ljubljana. First of all, I can point out that it was for the media to see that there was an illegal appointment process. Later I also obtained more information myself, and I can say that from the minutes of the meeting of the Council of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana of 7. 4. 2016 it is clear that the Council, by vote, found that Dr Zvonko Hočevar did not meet the tendering conditions; however, it is not indicated which tender condition does not meet and why a Council vote is necessary if it does not clearly meet the tendering conditions. It would be to be expected that if someone fails to meet the tendering conditions, then the Council does not decide on it at all. So this is one of the cases that shows that there is no respectable procedure. And if I touch on Mr Kopač, whom the Council has proposed as an appropriate candidate and whose consent the Government should also give, it is equally clear from the minutes that the Council of the University Clinical Centre did not obtain a certificate of impunity in this procedure, because it was not required under tendering conditions, although it should be. I therefore hope that this material will not go to a government meeting either, in the agreement of the Government for the appointment of a candidate who has not submitted a document required by law. However, if the tendering conditions were out of the law, we can talk again about the illegal procedure. I therefore ask the Minister about the procedure for the appointment of the Director-General of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u192	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Hello to the Minister! My parliamentary question concerns the new spatial and building legislation that is in preparation. The situation in Slovenia is significantly worse than in neighbouring countries, as regards the acquisition or placement of projects into space, the acquisition of building permits, the acquisition of environmental permits and the countless we have facilities that are built on black or in non-compliance with regulations. This also largely discourages foreign investors, foreign investors and our investors from investing in Slovenia and leaves for neighbouring countries. This has already been noted by the Minister of Finance that this is one of the problems, a major problem that does not require money in the budget, but requires a lot of work or smart people and a change in this legislation to bring it closer to the conditions of neighbouring countries. In Slovenia, a foreign investor also acquires a building permit for 5.6 years; an environmental permit is obtained for a year and a half to two years. More than half of the municipalities have not yet adopted municipal spatial plans, which should be adopted by 2009 after the current law; this is not the case. Therefore, there are major problems in the development of transport and municipal infrastructures, as well as major problems for entrepreneurs, the economy in the placement of projects and the acquisition of all necessary permits. That's why I'm interested, Madam Minister. Does this legislation, which is supposed to be systematic, contain such content or extensions as to shorten this gap in the coming years, or that the conditions for placing and obtaining a building permit will be similar to those of neighbouring countries? Serbia already has a period of one month to obtain a building permit, which is five years. This is a major obstacle for foreign investors. Representatives of foreign investors are already asking whether a particular business zone has an environmental permit. If it doesn't, they just don't ask anymore and they go elsewhere because two years or a year and a half is impossible, just for that part. This is of interest to me because, as far as I have been monitoring myself, it is mainly about beauty repairs; it is not about the system’s arrangements that will handle it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Lah, honourable Member, the purpose of the legislative package of three laws on the regulation of the premises and the construction of the facilities currently under preparation is to overhaul and update the regulatory framework in this area in an integrated and uniform manner. This has led to the establishment of such substantive and procedural rules and a system of competences that will enable effective decision-making – from strategic decision-making on the direction of development in the space to the issuance of building permits and other concrete administrative acts. In the search for and coordination of these solutions, we also take a closer look at the regulations of neighbouring countries due to the comparability of the acquis, due to the competitiveness of the Slovenian space and the related administrative services. A key aspect of this competitiveness is also the comparison of average durations for comparable projects and administrative services. When making decisions in the space effectively, which does not mean simply ensuring speed, but also the substantive relevance of decisions, it is certainly also important to have a normative basis. The draft legislative package, which has been publicised, contains a number of solutions aimed at speeding up procedures, not so much at prescribing or shortening such or different deadlines; but at making a more meaningful transfer of burdens and competences, reducing the resulting unnecessary requirements and performances and increasing flexibility in decision-making where possible. These solutions are now being coordinated with stakeholders, with the Ministry, as the author of legal solutions, consistently monitoring whether these additions and harmonisations are consistent with the basic origins and objectives of the legislative reform. In this regard, we add that the area of regulation of the premises and the construction of the buildings is highly diversified and is also subject to sectoral rules, which are not solely within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space. This means that the requirements for more efficient management of this area must be followed and other rules must be aligned with the emerging solutions. However, it is precisely when we examine and understand foreign arrangements that there is no effective decision-making in the room and cannot be linked only to normative solutions; but depends in many ways on the organisation of stakeholders and processes and on the legal and administrative culture. The transition or upgrading of the current action in this area, a more effective system, is also urgently linked to changes in the organisation, mentality and approach of everyone involved in it every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u195	Mr. Bell Lah, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u196	Madam Minister, your answer does not exactly inspire me with any optimism. However, your conclusion is correct that spatial legislation is so complex that in my opinion it would be necessary to set up a certain departmental body, which would also unite the other ministries, because spatial legislation does not depend solely on your ministry. We have a bunch of space regulators, which are also under other resources, which are very important here, such as agriculture or infrastructure. With us, we have placed a lower highway for 15 years, a second track for 15 years, and a number of other things that we have a strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia, one set of desires that is nothing more than that we have 36 co-operators or regulators for the adoption of spatial acts. Is this legislation shrinking, or is something changing, or will it again, at the time of the production of the spatial documents, be masterful and stalled, and be inconsistent with one another as it has been so far? I do not see any significantly more effective receipts or solutions from this legislation that would significantly reduce those hands. We can't say that if we cut it down to four years from six years, it's a big success. No; we must assign ourselves a task to be accommodated or [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] a spatial act adopted within six months, a building permit within one month; and follow it, otherwise this work is in vain. [[…]] The approach that he was now does not seem to have been the most appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u198	Dear Mr Lah, I believe that it is to be expected, even in this part, that the spatial planning process will be shorter at the moment. I am convinced that the issue of building permits is less difficult because they are issued in accordance with spatial acts. If the application for a building permit is appropriate to a spatial act, the building permit may also be issued within one month; in particular if the application is complete. When adopting spatial acts, however, it is not our intention for any of the space managers — you yourself — to mention some of them and to say that more of them — to be overthrown in their efforts or in their conduct. Our environment is already quite burdensome in this regard, and people are often involved in the adoption of environmental acts. In preparing this legislation, it was not intended to violate or restrict anyone’s rights. It is true, however, that if, in terms of the implementation of a spatial act by investors as well, these factors that affect the placement in space are easier and more cooperative, this time may be reduced. Why did half the municipalities manage to adopt the UNO or the municipal space acts?Oh, my God! So they've been trained enough, taken enough, it looks like the mayors had an interest in adopting these acts. The shortening or adoption of spatial acts in such a way that the fundamental rights which it has, of course, will be denied to anyone, was not the purpose of the adoption of this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, will you suggest a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u200	Yes, President, I will take this business opportunity because the matter is very important. I am afraid that if no one is deprived of their right to set conditions or guidelines and consensus, then we will not significantly reduce the procedures; because what we have is nowhere in the world. We also have a problem of, say, categorisation of municipal roads. There was a debate in the State Council, and that's where it all went down. Whether this legislation resolves that the Constitutional Court will not abolish municipal decisions on the classification of municipal roads; and where there is no categorised municipal road, an investor from every owner on the land of which the road is built must receive a service, enter into the land book, which costs 130 euros; and each investor individually. Does this legislation solve this? I don't think so. Some solutions were also provided at that time. I think that this will become unsustainable in a year or so, and this legislation will be, when we do not deprive anyone of any right, but we give everyone the right, including someone who is at the other end of Slovenia, to intervene in the process and to hold back the adoption of a spatial act. I was the mayor of a municipality that adopted the UNO in 2009. Better not, for at the time the regulation was in force that every building building should be on the building plot and we cannot legalise any building since then. But now we are in the process of supplementing the municipal spatial act, and again we have huge problems. Things just get more complicated, they don't simplify anything, there's a bunch of problems. The Ministry or the manufacturer of this law should set out at the start what we have to do, not do something, but in the end we will see what kind of product will come out. In the fall, when we get stuck in this legislation, you'll see where we're going. If this legislation is written by some lawyers, officials who have no experience in practice, neither in the production of spatial acts nor in the design of various projects, then we will get the product we expect to receive in the fall. I think it is time to have a thorough discussion with all stakeholders and set their goals while there is still time, because otherwise there will be no economic growth; believe me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. In the village of Györkös Žnidar, which is absent, please also identify yourself in the way of the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Unreasonably absent, according to the Rules of Procedure. I regret that it is not possible for this Minister to ask any questions. Today, as far as my colleagues have told me, it's been missing for the third time. Initially, we have found that the situation is clear, only international activity can be justified; and not this. My question was about the current situation around the migrant crisis. At the beginning of March there was a closure of the Balkan route, of course Macedonia, which has as many or fewer police officers as Slovenia. As a member of the European Union, Slovenia has not been able to do so since last year. I want to know: What is the current situation, how many illegal migrants are still coming to us, this time in an illegal way, no longer in an organized way? How many people ask for international protection and are settled in an asylum home or its exposures? How many people leave the Republic of Slovenia by leaving the asylum home because they have free movement? How is the Republic of Slovenia preparing for possible abandonment at the Macedonian-Greek border and a possible new, large arrival of illegal migrants? How are we going to protect the borders in this case? It must be added that we have released almost half a million people — at least we — across our territory. Today we see footage on the Greek-Macedonian border, where old people are disabled by the people where the children are. You can't go to Europe. According to our official data, we have released just under half a million people through Slovenia, including 68% of men under the age of 38 and over 18 years. We have therefore contributed to some inhumane act of Europe. As far as my question is concerned, please, if the Minister answers orally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The spring Györkös Žnidar, which is absent. Please define yourself to the way you answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u204	Thank you. I am also expressing my own expectation for the Minister who is unjustifiably absent to respond orally; and this at the first next meeting. The question that I would like to ask – I withdrew it for the last time because it was not, I will not, because this will go on indefinitely – but touching one of the most unpleasant stories related to migrants, namely, the fact that in Kotnikova in Ljubljana at the end of February it has been shown that left-wings in defense of illegal migrants and this illegal activity are also fully ready to use force. There we saw veiled people with their hands placed in a cordon called a police jargon for crowd control, that is to say with obvious intent and willingness to use violence. Fortunately, on the other democratic side, they did not run into any, as I would call it, interlocutors, as they might have wished. There were old ladies with flags in their hands, artists, culturers with Health, with a list of our anthem that they wanted to read. Well, the police stood up on Wednesday. The images of this confrontation are more than narration of who is who and who is the real bully in Slovenia. It's really funny that this is even an assumption, because some 100,000 people in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia were killed by left-wingers after World War II. This, of course, makes it very clear who is prone to violence and who should be controlled. But since then the Internet has been full of information about how talks have been conducted with those on the democratic right, who have only gone to any demonstrations and demanded security and legality. Interestingly, this is discussed; it is obvious that no one is investigating what it is like for those who have shown that they are trained and equipped for violence. Moreover, at the meeting of the commission I am leading, we have also submitted to the police, with the presence of the Minister, pictures from which, at the time of the enlargement, it follows very clearly that people had something else there, that the left-wings probably also had some hidden weapons. You can see things ready to attack and stuff. And at the time, the Minister was assured that all of this would be properly investigated. Now, apparently, the blind investigation is heading in a different direction in some way, hoping that someone will be found to point the finger in another direction; it will not. Violent men were left - handed and must be investigated. No one has the right to manifest a tendency or call for violence. It's an unconstitutional act, not just a crime. I ask the Minister: How is the investigation carried out with regard to all those other items and the basic message on the willingness to violence by left-wingers on Kotnikovi Street?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, who is absent, and I also ask you to define yourself in response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! Let the Minister answer me orally, despite the fact that in a month this subject will be behind us. What's this all about? For the first time in the history of Slovenia alone, the Slovenian army has an assessment of readiness insufficient. And in order to at least calm the public down a little bit, it is already said that before May 15, this will be the date of the Slovenian Army, the replaced Chief of General Staff, Dr. Andrej Osterman. On Friday, an article was published in the newspaper Dnevnik, which somehow indicates that discussions should be held about who will be the next Chief of Staff. As it was written there, it is currently in play the name of Brigadier Milk Petk, who is one of the leaders of the three support pillars at the General Staff of the Slovenian Army. What I want to ask you is: Is the Minister really thinking about replacing Chief of Staff? Then I have a question for her. Who will that be? As the Government has not yet adopted a report on the state and readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, I am interested in: Does it seem reasonable for the Chief of Staff to change before the Government even accepts this report on state and readiness before the National Assembly considers it at all and before the general public becomes aware of it? How will it ensure that the next Chief of Staff will not be exactly one of the persons for whom it could be shown that he has also cooperated and helped in the fact that the Slovenian Armed Forces are in an unenviable position today and that for the first time in the history of Slovenia he does not have an adequate assessment? I would also like to know how the Minister will explain if she will indeed appoint Brigadier Petka as Chief of Staff: How does one imagine a vision, some development, and above all peace in the Slovenian Army, given that Brigadier Friday retires next year? We know that we currently need someone in the post of Chief of General Staff who will be there for more than a year, who will be there for a few years, who will be determined, who has a clear vision and knows where he wants the Slovenian Army in five years. And I would also like to know if we are talking about Brigadier Petk now, even though he also worked for NATO, but, as we have read, it is also interesting from this article that it is obviously a staff officer who has no experience in the management and command of any department, the water, the troops in the Slovenian Army. How do you imagine in the position of Chief of General Staff someone who has no experience in this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Beznik will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u208	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Madam Minister, as you know, I have already asked you a written question, which I have not received concrete answers to. My question relates to Albin Promotion, which in 2007 received a building permit for the rehabilitation of an abandoned gramogram cave with a granulate made of car tires according to EN 13242, which was then issued by the Ministry of Environment and Space. So far, the case has not really been disputed. Then, three and a half years later, Albin Promotion received a decision to remove the building permit under supervisory law. So something happened in the country that should never have happened in the rule of law. This is a matter of legal predictability and a fundamental breach of the Slovenian Constitution. The Government has initiated a procedure to determine the conditions for acting under a supervisory function under an official duty. On this basis, people in the media may know the story of several fires in the area. The matter is also pending before the European Commission, which has identified quite a few violations of the Ministry. The Ministry responded to these violations, in particular the European Commission found that the Article of the Waste Framework Directive 101, which concerns the procedure in question, should not be considered as processing, but rather as disposal. Pursuant to this Article, the Commission's decision to deposit may be considered as processing where appropriate waste is used for the production of land. The Commission considered that, in order to identify the presence of heavy metals and other hazardous substances in tyres and their inflammability of the tyres used, where only rough-cut is carried out as a previous treatment, not such an appropriate waste that could be filled. In this reasoned opinion I have before me, the Commission has identified a number of infringements, to which the Ministry has reacted very cheaply. Let me also say that there is a lawsuit in Slovenia to reimburse all costs to Albin Promotion. You told me that you would wait until the end, that the justice process would begin, that it would continue. My question is this: Will you start negotiating in the first part with Albin Promotion, or will you find out if you will agree, which is likely to be cheaper, more rational for the country? By the looks I've looked at here, this thing is likely to fall. Slovenia will get a lot of punishment. On the other hand, you have recently called for a public rehabilitation tender, where one of the companies that are always working for Mr. Departure will perform a 45 thousand tonnes recovery only 28 thousand tonnes, at a price at which Albin Promotion would, for example, repair all 45 thousand tonnes of this waste. I would ask for these two answers: How do you intend to proceed with the procedure? Why was such a price for the rehabilitation of these waste tyres? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u210	Thank you. Thank you, Ambassador Franz Breznik, for the question. I'm sorry, but you spoke so quickly that I could not understand anything. The issue surrounding this rehabilitation of the abandoned grammar shop near Lovrence in the Drava Field is the case of an older date. For a long time these procedures have taken place in this part. And given your debate, I would absolutely separate the proceedings that are on the one hand being brought before the European Commission for the purpose of filing an application for an infringement; and the procedure in which you ask me whether we are going to negotiate with Albin Promotion. If I focus on this procedure now. There have also been a number of broadcasts on this process, and journalists are very interested in explaining and telling stories about it. However, I would like to tell you that he is an indemnity, this is Albin Promotion, with inspection decisions – there were many of them, there were quite a number of inspection decisions during operation in the early stages. But if this is shrinking now, because it is impossible to process everything in this short time, we are going to the last time he was determined by the decision to withdraw these wastes, then – this was before my arrival – this company Albin Promotion took over this removal of the tyres. Of course, I'm well aware of that and I take that into account, at my own expense. Now, after implementation, our inspection service has called for the production of this work, acquired the contractor, will also have to cover these costs and then by implementing the Albin Promotion to ensure that these costs are reimbursed. However, the matter is complex because in the first layer of the upper layer there are clean tires in some way, and in the lower layers there are some explanations of what is in the lower part. After removing the upper part, we need to probe the lower part and figure out how to clean up any more wastes that have come into this grammage by unauthorised intervention. For residents or for those who are a little more familiar with this, I will not say anything new that Albin Promotion wanted to obtain a building permit at the Ptuj Administrative Unit at the time, 10 years ago; however, it could not obtain. This acquisition of the building permit was later issued at the Ministry of Environment and Space and then cancelled as you said. So why not negotiate? The negotiations are not primarily because the case has been in implementation for so many years, i.e. in recovery, but because of the owner there was no understanding. Of course, it is easier to discuss this with the Member, but at least on my part it is necessary to say that there has been pressure from many to carry out these negotiations. And when there's such a strong commitment, I admit that even sometimes people give up on whether or not they do. I admit that the professional work of our co-workers is now aimed at proving that there have been numerous inspections and numerous infringements that the owner has not resolved since the start of this company's operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u212	Maybe we got along a little bit. I hope you understand that I'm not accusing you of being guilty of treason because it was almost a decade ago. However, it is my view that the State authority has misapplied the law and that in this case it was a decision for which it was not competent, as it has found; and that this decision has therefore been repealed. It is therefore illegal conduct which falls within the scope of Article 26 of the Constitution and also within the framework of the Bond Code, Article 148. But I'm afraid it's in your purview and in your mandate now to assess what the possibilities are in this fair process. I also separate what runs in front of a committee. If the Commission finds out, the case will go to the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Let me admit that, for the most part, I have studied the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Community in my master's degree. I must admit that the legal certainty, the legal security of one country which was violated at the beginning of this procedure for Albin Promotion in 2007, is that when it gave someone a building permit and then rejected it; this is one of the major violations in each year. Although you have also stated before the European Commission that Albin Promotion has violated, let's say it has not rectified certain matters concerning certain standards that it should have; but these are minor infringements. For this larger infringement, I fear that Slovenia will also lose this process. My question was largely based on the fact that I have been following as a Member in the first and second terms, and I can say that we have lost almost all the lawsuits of the Slovenians. Not your ministry; in particular, the latter concerns Croatia with regard to the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, as we know, a major breach and a large surface of people working at the Ministry at two ministries. Slovenia will now pay millions of euros in compensation. My question mainly relates to this: Have you considered that it is worth going into a fair procedure with Albin Promotion precisely because of this breach of legal certainty or uncertainty in this process?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u214	I admit it now, and I understand even less than I thought I didn't understand it before. These two procedures are not related in terms of connectivity. This procedure, which Slovenia has before the European Commission, refers to illegal waste and the action brought by the owner of Albin Promotion against Slovenia has nothing. This means that we must proceed with the procedure to remedy this pit for the action we have before the European Court. In the case itself, which is the case for the Republic of Slovenia, namely the Government, the Ministry of Environment and Space in Slovenia, to prove – and here I have said that our professional services are engaged within the meaning of this procedure, especially because, as I have also mentioned to you, because in the procedures you call legal when that building permit was in force, a number of inspectors' procedures, which at that time stopped the work, were directed by the contractor or the owner of the company to carry out measures that were not available. So, if I judge for myself, the suit before the European Court of Justice obliges the Ministry to implement the measures and, of course, to remedy the illegal landfill. That's where we're working. There, I agree with you, it is not good for the state to pay compensation. We monitor this process and try to implement it in time. While the action itself by the owner of the company can, of course, come to the European Court of Justice in the future, these two actions are not currently connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, do you request a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I would particularly like to discuss this issue because it is difficult in this short time available to us, both the Minister and me, to get to the bottom. We have now found that these procedures are separate. One is the Commission's procedure, the other is the case law that runs in our Court of Justice in Slovenia. And that new procedure threatens the Court of Justice of the European Union. But another problem that arises, which would need a whole range of questions and my concerns, is this unfortunate recovery. This company would do 28 thousand tons of rehabilitation for about a million 600 tons. You found an external contractor for over 2 million for 28 thousand tons, which is half a million more expensive than a company would have done. I don't understand which marriage article it is that this company, as you yourself have found, should do it for free, and now it can't do it for free because it's a company in the process, and so you've chosen an external contractor who's half a million euros more expensive. However, this half-million euro rescue we must do in the shortest possible time, which you also note will be completed by the end of June 2016, the first part of these tyres, 28 000 tonnes to do so by the company; this should be done by the right company Albin Promotion. That's half a million more expensive calculations. This is rationality, and we end up with half a million, as far as Albin Promotion gets it in court, if we count half a million to all the costs that were intended not only for rehabilitation, but for the incorrect issuance of the building permit in 2007. On the basis of all this, I must admit that I have many doubts, many concerns, I do not accuse you of having made any mistake so far. Of course, I appeal to you to really take a broader view of this; and to make one public debate on this subject even after the decision of our Rules of Procedure. I have a whole series of documents on which, I must admit, I've been working for quite some time. At first, even as the majority of people, I was kind of stuck with this company, I have to admit. Finally, I find that the matter is very difficult and that more than ten million damages can be threatened to Slovenia. I would not want to, and I believe that you, as Minister of the Environment, would not want any action to be made in your mandate that Slovenia will have to pay. On this basis, I propose, Madam Vice-President, that we hold a broader debate on my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 April 2016, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku, who is absent, so please define yourself to the way you reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u218	I will ask Mr Restorationsk to answer my question orally when he arrives at the next meeting. The question of emissary is, we can say, also in line with the government's promise before these elections. Mir Cerar promised high moral and ethical rules, meritocratic principles and so on. A few days ago, we were able to find that a Spanish professor and an official who is not familiar with the economic situation are being sent to the prestigious post of economic diplomacy in Geneva. This, on the other hand, is the daughter of former President Kučan – Mrs Špela Kučan. I'm asking Mr. Restoring: What are its specifications, what are its competences? Why is it that a country where we have hundreds of unemployed economists, economic masters and economic doctors who speak some foreign languages has not decided to tender and look at a whole range of young people who deserve to come to this function? I think we have a lot of people in a two-million-dollar nation, and I don't have a problem with the name Kučan, because I think that the daughter or son of a president deserves a normal job. But someone who is a Spanish teacher, I don't know what he has to do with carrying out a mission abroad that concerns the Ministry of Economic Affairs, knowledge of the wider macroeconomic situation and so on. For me, it is not likely that this is based on some meritocratic principles; after the impression that the media have also presented it is not a competent matter, but it is a suspicion of some corruption, but also a suspicion of nepotism. For this reason, I expect an oral reply at the next meeting of the National Assembly, in the first place of Minister Počvalska, from which Mrs Špela Kučan is leaving for Geneva. I will also next ask the question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is somehow directly responsible for the placement of diplomats in foreign missions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-18-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Ministers and Ministers for the answers given and thus interrupt the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday, 19 April 2016, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the context of the votes. I am also adjourning the 18th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
