ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Members and Members: Mrs Jelka Godec, Dr. Franz Trček, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek from 16:00 on, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec from 18:00 on, Mr. Branko Zorman until 14:00, Mr. Matjaž Han from 17:00 on and Mr. Matjaž Hanžek. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to item 3a of the agenda, I am moving on to the Government's Notice of the resignation of Dr Dusan Mumorr from the post of Minister of Finance. The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, made me 13. Seven. 2016 informed that Dr Dusan Maramor had resigned from his post as Minister of Finance. In this regard, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Dr Dusan Marble has ceased to serve as Minister of Finance. The President of the Government is 13. Seven. 2016 The National Assembly has informed that Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, Minister without Resource, will be responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion until the appointment of the new Minister of Finance. Dr. Dushan Marble, I thank you for your cooperation and wish him the best in his work. We move on to agenda 3A, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on measures to address the consequences of cold and snow in agricultural production between 25. And 30. APRIL 2016 following an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to thank you for allowing me to discuss the intervention law at the regular meeting of the National Assembly by extending the agenda. However, a special thanks goes to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which, at its urgent meeting, discussed and adopted the proposal for a law, and to the Legislative and Legal Service, which prepared an opinion on the law as soon as possible. Although the proposal itself means a derogation from the system regime, the cold itself was highly non-systemic. Indeed, there has been no such cold in the month of April for the past 60 years, and on this basis a draft or proposal for a law which, honourable Members and Members, is before you today. The law itself allows four measures to be implemented. The first measure is the extension of the provisions of the Wine Act, which allows natural persons, when they do not have grapes due to the cold, to be collected outside the wine-growing area, which is important, since they keep their business partners in this way. Since the first harvest of grapes is likely to start in August, it is particularly important to consider and accept this meeting of the National Assembly, and I thank you for that. The law also allows for an extension of the statutory deadline for lodging applications for write-off or reduction of the obligation to pay contributions for pension and disability insurance to insured persons on the basis of an agricultural activity for the purpose of assessing the damage that can be caused only after a certain period of time. The law also provides the legal basis for the reduction or write-off of rents in the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia due to crop damage as a result of the spring freeze in 2016 and also allows financial assistance to be granted to the most affected agricultural economies active in fruit and wine production. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members, the implementation of the law will be a very adjusted time when farms also earn income from the sale of agricultural crops which will not be frozen at present, and thus we assess that we will allow farms, which is also a public interest, to be preserved in life and thus preserve the settlement of the Slovenian rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you, too, Minister Dejan Židan. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Tomaž Lisc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of cold and snow in agricultural production was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food from 25 to 30 April of this year at its 29th emergency meeting on 8 July 2016. Representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Farmers of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenia and the Wine Society of Slovenia participated in the debate on the proposal, by reminding the Director of the Wine Society of Slovenia that winemakers do not agree that the effects of the cold and snow are being resolved by interfering with the applicable Wine Act, which they consider to be quite appropriate. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. A representative of the Legislative and Legal Service also took part in the debate, which pointed out that the proposal for amendments to the Committee of Coalition Group's coalition groups, which summarized some of their comments from the written opinion, only partially eliminates some of the uncertainties, particularly the terminology, but does not address the underlying issues. Among other things, the proposal for a law constitutes a derogation from the system-wide regulation of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents. The bill also raises the issue of the communication value of the law, which may raise the question of equal treatment of all entities, in particular economic entities, operating with their own resources. In the event that they are affected by a natural disaster that is also impossible to solve under the system law, they will rightly demand from the legislator that they be compensated in a comparable way, as is the case in particular with the proposal of the law that we are considering today for fruit growers and vineyards. With regard to the provision providing for the statutory write-off of leases with respect to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, the representative pointed out that it was unclear what the rent was accounting for in the first place. During the discussion, the members of the Committee drew attention in particular to the provision of Article 9 of the draft law, which exceptionally allows natural persons who are not individual entrepreneurs and who have suffered damage in vineyards following the frost and snow for the production of musts, wine and other grape products, and the possible purchase of grapes from 2016 which have not been produced in the wine-growing environment of the damaged grape grower. It has been warned that this year there will be a need to strengthen control in the transport of grapes so that there will be no distortions in the purchase of grapes. To the provision of Article 11, which provides that the funds must be paid to the beneficiaries no later than 4 years after the injury occurred, the SDS Group proposed an amendment to the committee by which the postponement period would be reduced to two years, as the SDS Group considers the 4-year period to be too long to remedy the damage. The Committee on the Amendment of the Committee did not adopt the proposal. In conclusion, the members of the committee from all the parliamentary groups supported the bill as part of their explanations of vote. They pointed out that the intervention law was needed in order to ensure that all those farmers who suffered the greatest damage due to the cold and snow were immediately provided with the necessary financial assistance. Despite their unanimous support for the proposed solutions, however, they also pointed out that climate conditions are changing, resulting in more and more natural disasters. They therefore called on the competent ministries to seriously and promptly prepare a new system-wide Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, in particular with a view to preventing future such and similar cases in agriculture from being solved by intervention laws derogating from a systemic solution and to increasing the possibility of possible speculation. At the same time, they called on farmers to consider solving similar cases on the basis of reciprocity in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. It would also suggest that, under budgetary options, the co-financing of insurance premiums for permanent plantations is gradually increasing. On the basis of the written proposals of the coalition parliamentary groups with the amendments of the Committee, the Committee adopted 13 amendments, which are included in the text of the amended draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We begin with the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u6	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the intervention law, particularly because we are aware of the consequences of the natural disaster affecting agriculture, and without this state aid, it would certainly put out a large number of agricultural economies. In order to be able to grant State aid, it is necessary, after all analyses, to demonstrate the adoption of the intervention law before us, and in this way, to farmers, the State may grant timely aid to the agricultural economy to a satisfactory extent so that they can compensate for the loss of income and that this State aid may also contribute to the restoration of production potential. This is certainly the most important thing to do as soon as possible and to a satisfactory extent. However, we call on the Government to consider the policy of agricultural production insurance, since in the last period and especially since the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents came into force, co-financing of insurance premiums has fallen practically to half. As a result, agricultural protected areas have also been reduced. In order to share the risk among all stakeholders, it is certainly necessary to increase the co-financing of insurance premiums in this area. We estimate that the proposed measures are correctly targeted and that they will also be effective in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will be presented by Mrs Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you. Dear Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Dearly noted, today, following an urgent procedure, we are considering a proposal for an intervention law on measures to remedy the effects of cold and snow in agriculture between 25 and 30 April this year, which sets out measures to address the consequences of an emergency in agriculture, which we have not witnessed in the last 60 years. The spring disaster in orchards and vineyards, according to previous estimates, caused €23.6 million of damage to about 56,000 hectares. The most affected were orchards and vineyards, more than 60% were destroyed, 3,000 200 hectares and a thousand 700 hectares of vineyards. Thus, only about one fifth of the apples remained for the orchards. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are aware that, despite the fact that we have adopted several amendments on the basis of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the proposal for today's treatment is almost entirely complete – it still constitutes a departure from the Systemic Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the system law has been adopted to avoid the repeated resolution of individual natural disasters by intervention laws, but has also expressed its concerns about the proposed measures affecting unprotected crops, although they could be protected and allowed the State to co-finance the insurance premium. In the SMC Group, we agree, to some extent, with the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service, that we have already warned the Government or the competent department that the coalition has committed itself to regulating the system of assistance in the event of natural disasters and that the system-wide legislation should be amended in such cases so that the State Assembly should not be required to adopt intervention laws to remedy the consequences of individual natural disasters and that the latter should only be able to take action by the Government. Notwithstanding the latter, on the basis of the exceptionality of this event and the preliminary assessment of the damage and the poor economic situation in fruit and winemaking, we have decided to support the proposal for a law. The decision on support was taken unanimously on the home working body. All members and members of the committee, or all parliamentary political parties, agreed that the intervention law should be adopted, and expressed satisfaction that the proposal for a law after this nature was prepared quickly and that, due to the urgency, it would already be adopted at this meeting. Since damage will result in the biggest loss of this year's grapes, it is essential that the proposed measures take effect before the start of this year's harvest, which, as is known, for the early varieties of the last year usually begins at the end of August. Support for rapid action and law was also expressed in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, Social Relations and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia. The law will extend the deadline for lodging a request for a reduction or cancellation of the obligation to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance for farmers, allow for the reduction or write-off of rents under the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, with the exception of natural persons engaged in the production of wine from their own grapes and having more than 60 % of the damage, the grapes will be collected in a wider area outside the wine-growing area, outside the wine-growing country and even in countries such as Croatia, Hungary, Austria, Italy and not outside the EU. In relation to this solution, a number of dilemmas have been opened on the home working body and proposals have been made in this regard to limit the additional purchase of grapes to individual wineland in order to strengthen control of the transport of grapes. We had doubts about the proposed solution in the SMC at first, but we are aware that only by allowing the purchase of grapes within the environment or the country of problems would not solve them. Some wine-growing countries, such as Podravje, were almost entirely affected, and grapes would not be sufficient, and wine-growing or wine-growing farmers should be allowed to protect their market shares or to keep them on commercial shelves and in restaurants. In the SMC, we have decided to support this measure because a winegrower or winemaker will also have to take into account the provisions of all the rules governing the labelling of origin and quality of wine, which means that there will be no misleading of consumers with regard to the protection of geographical origin. The intervention law will allow non-refundable financial assistance to farmers whose orchards or vineyards have lost not more than 30 % of the area, with damage to each GErk more than 60 %. If they had the crop insured, they will be able to receive up to 20% of the recognised damage if they did not have the insurance and up to 10% of the damage. The aim of this law is therefore to ensure the existence of affected agricultural economies and to provide them with the urgently needed financial resources by the immediate adoption of the intervention law, which will, in part, mitigate the loss of income due to the damage caused by the measures being designed so that direct financial assistance is actually granted only to the most affected and vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u9	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u10	Dear President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, immediately after this terrible cold, we were the initiators of the urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, where we found that the cold was so extensive and so large that it exceeded the limits of the natural disaster; it is said that it damages more than EUR 2.5 million, and we called - also the Committee's decision - for the Government to take the appropriate action. In our view, the government has responded quickly, adopted this intervention law, which we support in the Slovenian Democratic Party, although the law that has been tabled constitutes a derogation from the system regime, as the Minister has also said, and follows precisely the objective which this law provides as inadmissible, this is the compensation for unsecured cases which could have been secured and co-financed by the State. However, in 2015 only 20% and 9% of vineyards were insured because the insurance companies introduced a deductible franchise of 15%, and the purchase prices fell so that grape-saleers simply could not afford insurance because they would have lost. However, this intervention law somehow solves this situation, the question is whether to a sufficient extent, as was also a gruesome debate on the Committee. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have prepared two amendments aimed at restoring this damage within two years, not in four years, because we say, who is quick to do so, twice. Another issue is that the purchase of grapes would be limited due to possible speculation on the wineland. However, it was explained that the wine-growing country of Podravje was so affected that in this wine-growing country it is not possible to buy grapes and it is imperative to buy them elsewhere, but this can bring certain speculations that are not positive and can be exploited. In the debate, we then found, not just us, the largest party in the country that proposed or called on the Ministry to prepare a new system law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters as soon as possible, in particular with a view to preventing future such and similar cases in agriculture from being resolved by intervention laws derogating from the current system regime, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. At the same time, we call on the Government as a parliamentary group to examine and possibly gradually increase the co-financing of insurance premiums for permanent plantations so that they do not have to be resolved in this way. In short, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support this law and we also appeal to the Government to try, because of the increasing climate change, the major natural disasters in agriculture, which is a constant way for agriculture to be resolved in some way differently and not every time to adopt intervention laws to address this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u12	Dear President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to inform you of the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of cold and snow in agricultural production between 25 and 30 April 2016. This spring cold and snow have again warned us that climate change is a reality that brings more and more unusual, often devastating weather events. There has been enormous damage, mainly in vineyards and orchards, which has even endangered the existence of farms that deal exclusively with one or both activities. It is not only a loss of income, but also an additional higher cost for the supply of plantations, for example, trees will have to be properly provided because they will have no more fruits, which is an additional shock for them. Since it is a cold case of a natural disaster that can be protected and because the State co-finances the insurance premium, the consequences of this cold cannot be addressed in accordance with the applicable Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents. Unfortunately, very few plantations have been secured, which means that most farmers would not have been helped. However, since it is our assessment that it is also necessary to assist those who have not insured the plant for various factors, in our Group of Members we have supported the proposal of an intervention law on the removal of the consequences of the spring freeze and snow, which will also help unprotected farmers, but to a lesser extent than insured farmers. The aid will thus be granted to the most affected farmers who have or will have a crop drop of more than 60 % of the normal annual agricultural production in the vineyard or orchard. This is expected to be financial assistance in a group of up to €3.5 million and will be implemented in different forms. Among other things, natural persons dealing with the production of wine from their own grapes with more than 60 % damage may also be able to collect grapes in a wider area and the origin will have to be properly marked. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that the Ministry and interest groups, such as the Slovenian Agricultural and Economy Chamber, have found a common language and drafted a law containing almost all the measures proposed by the Chamber. Also in the discussion at the home work body, the rarely-seen consensus of all those present for the adoption of the intervention law was shown. During the debate on this law, it appeared necessary to change the policy of agricultural land insurance without delay, since, as has been shown in the event of this accident, most farmers do not opt for insurance because it is too expensive, too much deductible franchises are emerging, as well as co-financing by the State has been drastically reduced. As we can expect more and more unusual natural phenomena that cause enormous damage to agriculture, it is necessary for farmers to be stimulated to conclude insurance. At the same time, we hope that farmers will be able to make use of the call for the European Agricultural Fund to support investments in agricultural holdings for 2016, which amount to 10 million in the form of grants to adapt farms to climate change. Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u13	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, where we will support the proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of cold and snow in agricultural production between 25 and 30 April this year. Of course, we also welcome the urgent procedure, since we certainly all have sad scenes before our eyes in vineyards and orchards that have been created as a result of severe cold and snow during that period. The law will certainly contribute to smoothing the hard-to-repar consequences for Slovenian agriculture and here we can underline the role of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, which, as ever, is included among the measures to remedy the consequences, by reducing or reducing or cancelling leases on agricultural land. The measures also include the reduction or write-off of contributions to pension and disability insurance for farmers, which will certainly relieve their obligations, and will also allow the purchase of grapes from a wider area to winemakers, which will, of course, allow them to maintain their market path and presence on the market, irrespective of the fact that the snow and cold have destroyed their own crops. In fact, this measure is not directly linked to financial support, but rather to the possibility we are giving by this law to overcome this disaster on their own. However, the most affected will, of course, also benefit from the budget and the budget reserve will also be allocated this time to remedy the consequences in those agricultural economies where the damage was the highest. Given that the measures have also received high support on the labour market, we can talk about the law being well targeted and ready in time, but it is also necessary to call for a serious discussion to be carried out further, both with representatives of insurance companies and with competent ministries and other institutions, on the issue of agricultural land insurance. I think that this is also an opportunity, because on specific occasions we can determine how much as a country and a single agricultural economy saves if both, together with insurance companies, we actually create an appropriate insurance scheme for agricultural land. This will, of course, be done in peace below. However, among the necessary measures, those I have presented in this previous part are of such a nature that they will come into force as soon as possible and we will therefore support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Immediately after freezing at the end of April, when damage was detected, it was doubtful whether the number would exceed EUR 2 and a half million or not. The final injury assessment for almost 10 times exceeds the first assessment. In the United Left, we believe that, despite the lack of systemic regulation in cases of natural disasters, the adoption of the law under consideration is necessary in order to mitigate the negative effects of the cold on Slovenian agriculture as much as possible. We will therefore support the bill in our parliamentary group despite some of the legal and formal concerns that have arisen at its consideration. The law extends the deadline for lodging applications for the reduction or write-off of contributions to pension and disability insurance for farmers, the reduction or write-off of rents under the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, extends the provisions of the Wine Act to allow natural persons who are not individual entrepreneurs to purchase grapes from a wider area, and in particular provides for assistance to the most affected agricultural economies active in primary agricultural production in fruit and wine production. The non-admission of the law would pose an existential threat to certain agricultural holdings. At the same time, we must again draw attention to the alarming increasing frequency of natural disasters, which are increasingly due to climate change. In recent years, we have witnessed the rise in extreme weather phenomena, which are increasingly striving for our agriculture and forestry. The glands, the paddies, the annual droughts or floods or both in the same year are no longer unusual. The damage caused by all of this, and also by the recent cold, is not only material, although farmers naturally feel it most directly. Indirectly damaged by such phenomena is the economy, the food processing industry, our self-sustainment with locally produced and processed food and so on. In the United Left, we believe that the Government is not too committed to taking measures that would have a direct impact in the fight against climate change. Already in adopting the budget, in the United Left, we have pointed out that little money is spent on adapting to climate change, and most of this money is for insurance, which is not a measure to promote real adaptation. Climate change is a reality that we will unfortunately have to get used to. Despite the signing of the Paris Agreement, it is unlikely that the global warming trend will stop soon, especially since the signatory countries, including Slovenia, are looking for more excuses than binding policies for the continuation of existing policies. If agriculture is to survive, climate change needs to be adapted if not, intervention laws such as this will become permanent. In short, we need prevention and not just curative. However, the latter is also, unfortunately, sometimes necessary. Therefore, as I have already said, in the United Left we will, of course, support the legislation on measures to remedy the effects of cold and snow in agricultural production between 25 and 30 April 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u17	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u18	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of cold and snow in agricultural production between 25 and 30 April 2016 is a law which cannot be contested and which has received the unanimous support of all parliamentary parties on the Committee. We also support Christian Democrats, but we share a few critical opinions about them with a number of stakeholders, especially farmers. Along with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, many warn the Ministry that this is a non-systemic law. The Ministry is aware of this and also supports this derogation from the system regime. Christian Democrats, however, call on the Ministry to organise, as soon as possible, and to complete the bill on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters and to correct it in order to cover the ever-increasing catch in our climate. Even after considering the amendment of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters due to greed, we have urged the Christian Democrats to prepare amendments so that the system law can be applied directly in most cases and there will be no need to adopt an additional intervention law to remedy the consequences of specific natural disasters every time. We also have an idea about the earmarked amount of €3.5 million. In view of the data so far, we believe that the resources will not even be sufficient for the basic rehabilitation of orchards and vineyards. However, if the injury is found to exceed that amount, the aid to the affected farmers will be further reduced. The Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food also sets out a good proposal in its opinion on the proposal for a law to introduce the possibility of advances, i.e. previous partial payments to beneficiaries already this year, as the affected farmers need money immediately in order to begin the rehabilitation of orchards and vineyards. We all know that those who quickly do, twice do. Farmers are in a difficult situation and at present the state does not help them enough not to impose new and new burdens on them. Members of New Slovenia will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION OF THE WORK SIZES LAW under the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u20	Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly a supplement to the Labour Relations Act. The proposed additions are necessary for the re-implementation of provisions which have been mistakenly repealed by the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code. Following the entry into force of the new Labour Relations Act 2013, the Labour Relations Act of 2003 ceased to apply, with the exception of work, in the provisions governing labour-related protection of seafarers. These remained in force until appropriate regulation in the regional law, this is the Maritime Code. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, adopted this spring, adequately regulates the labour protection of seafarers, while, of course, repealing the provisions of the Old Labour Relations Act as they are no longer necessary. In doing so, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code was by mistake more than an obvious mistake. It's about misrepresentation of official papers. Official Journal No 42/02, 103/07 should be stated, it is said, the old Labour Relations Act, which has already expired. The Maritime Code has thus mistakenly repealed the provisions of the new Labour Relations Act, which of course was not intended. The repeal of the provisions of the new Labour Relations Act, applicable from 218th to 220th Articles of the Labour Relations Act, is a violation of the provisions governing the minor sanctioning of employers' offences and repealing Article 221 of the Labour Relations Act, which governs the competence to impose fines throughout the prescribed scope for an individual offence. However, Articles 222 and 223 are transitional provisions of the Labour Relations Act governing the provision of the Worktime Supplement and the economically dependent person. The aim of the bill is thus to remedy the error under the urgent procedure, in order to reinstate as soon as possible the repealed provisions of the applicable Labour Relations Act; Article 1 of the Act re-imposes the repealed criminal provisions and powers of the inspector for a fine within the range, Articles 2 and 3 are transitional provisions which establish the retroactive transitional provisions of the Labour Relations Act, and Article 4 of the proposal regulates the entry into force of the law which, in accordance with the urgency of the procedure, is already provided for the following day after publication. To emphasise, it is very important that the supervision of employers by the Slovenian Inspectorate for Work is carried out without delay. The maritime code has only deleted certain criminal provisions of the current Labour Relations Act, so that the most severely threatened sanctions for the most serious infringements against labour rights continue to be in force. The strictest sanction in terms of the protection of workers is regulated by Article 217 of the Labour Relations Act, which has not been affected by the amendment of the Maritime Code since it has not been covered by the rounds of decisions which have been repealed. It is worth noting that the Labour Inspectorate may also issue an administrative decision to the employer during this period of time Still, when it detects irregularities when it detects infringements of the rights of workers, ordering him to remedy the irregularities found. This control has also continued uninterrupted since the implementation of the Maritime Code. However, in the event of a failure to comply with an administrative decision by the employer, the inspector may, on the basis of the Labour Inspection Act, impose a penalty on the employer for failing to comply with a decision taken by the inspector, and that is what the labour inspectors do all the time. Finally, I would like to reiterate that we regret the situation and that we want the provisions to be re-established as soon as possible, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a proposal for amendments to the Labour Relations Act and is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt them following an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u21	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 40th session. 7. As a parent labour body, he considered the proposed Act on Complements of the Labour Relations Act. As it is said, this law was submitted for consideration by the National Assembly of the Government. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities participated in the work of the Committee, the Government's Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the law within its competence and made comments to Article 2, and an amendment was also tabled to the coalition parliamentary groups, which took due account of these comments. The main objective of the bill is to remedy the editorial error in order to re-apply the repealed provisions of the previous applicable law, which have been repealed with obvious error. The Act amending and supplementing the Maritime Code in transitional provisions repeals Articles 218 to 223 of the Labour Relations Act. There has been a clear error in listing the Official Journals, which, as it was said, eliminates the amendment or amendment of this law. The debate that took place on all the articles of the bill raised the question of how such a mistake could have occurred at all and what would be the consequences of repealing Articles 218 to 223 of the ZDR. The discussion also asked whether any rights of workers have been violated due to the legal void and what impact the repeal of those provisions had on the work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work or on the sanctioning of violations under the repealed articles during this period. The applicant stressed that, irrespective of the deletion of certain criminal provisions, the remainder of the ZDR-1 text remains valid to the same extent as before, which means that the obligations and rights in the working relationship are completely unchanged. The work inspectorate may also be monitored, which means that it continues continuously, uninterruptedly. The Code of Law of the Sea only deleted certain criminal provisions of this law, the ZDR-1, so that the most severely threatened criminal sanctions continued to be in force. The strictest sanction in terms of the protection of workers, the most important offences, is regulated by Article 217 of the U.S.A., which was not affected by the implementation of the amendments to the Maritime Code since it was not covered by the provisions which were repealed. At the same time, the Inspectorate may have issued an administrative decision ordering him to remedy the irregularities found. The inspector may also, on the basis of the provisions of the ZDR-1, lay down a fine in an amount higher than the minimum prescribed fine. The following decision was proposed by the SDS Group on the basis of which the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities would submit to the Committee within 3 months the number and type of offences for which the infringement procedure was instituted, the indicative number of victims and the date of the alleged offence, but this proposal was not voted on. As I mentioned in the introduction, the Committee adopted the amendment proposed by the coalition parliamentary groups, which took full account of the recommendations or the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Committee also adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted and on the basis of the provisions of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report, which I have now briefly taken and you have it on your bench. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Erika Dekleva for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u24	Honorable President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the amendment to the Labour Relations Act, which corrects the error created by the adoption of the Maritime Code in April this year. Certain specificities relating to the employment contract for seafarers have been regulated by the Act in force previously on working relations in Articles 218 to 223, whose provisions remain in force pending the regulation of those provisions in a special law so called the Maritime Code. These are provisions relating to the contract of employment for seafarers which contain the following content: registration of the contract of employment for seafarers, minimum age of the person to be employed on board, duration of the probationary work of crew members, working time and overtime, prohibition of night work for seafarers and possibility of taking full leave. These contents were thus regulated in April this year by the amendment of the Maritime Code, which, with the indication of the wrong numbers of the Official Journals, repealed the provisions of Articles 218 to 223 of the applicable Labour Relations Act instead of the old one adopted in 2002. The repealed provisions expired on 24 May this year. The new Labour Relations Act, which we deal with again, enforces the following following by mistake of the repealed provision: three criminal provisions, which deal with less penalised infringements of employers and infringements relating to the user in the performance of work with agency workers, a provision governing the competence to impose fines throughout the prescribed scope for an individual offence, a provision governing the work-life allowance and a provision governing an economically dependent person. In the debate on the working body, a discussion on the protection of workers and the possibilities for retroactive application of criminal provisions was also developed as a result of the repealed provisions of the Labour Relations Act. Since offences are criminal offences for which the Constitution lays down the principle of strict legality or the principle of legality in a criminal procedure whereby no one can be punished for an offence which has not been declared or laid down for a criminal offence at the time of service, in this case the criminal provisions cannot be readmitted. At the same time, we can point out that workers have, or have been provided with, a protective position or legal protection, as the labour inspector may, in the event of infringements, also lead the proceedings under the Labour Inspection Act, thus requiring the establishment of a legal situation. In the event of non-compliance with the regulatory provision, sanctions and fines may be imposed also under the Labour Inspection Act, which in certain cases may be higher in standard values than under the Labour Relations Act. Taking into account the circumstances and the above-mentioned reasons why we are today adopting the amendment to the Labour Relations Act, we will support the proposal of the Law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u25	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, Members of the Ministry, welcome! Today, after an emergency procedure, we are considering the Labour Relations Act. On 24 May, he entered into force the Maritime Code, which, by its provision, entered into force in another field of work. The amendment repealed the provisions of Articles 218, 219, 220, 221, 222 and 223 of the Labour Relations Act. The provisions constituting the legal basis for determining offences in the applicable Labour Relations Act have been repealed. These are provisions relating to the protection of the rights of agency workers and to infringements of employers relating to the protection of the rights of workers in contract making and in the employment relationship. The Government in the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Labour Relations Act states that it eliminates the anomaly in the labour market caused by the apparent error in the implementation of the Maritime Code. But it's really strange how this so-called mistake could have occurred in the first place. The text of the law is first reviewed by the professional services in the ministries, must go through inter-degree coordination, through a review of the Government's Law Service, adopted by the Government, reviewed or reviewed by the Legislative and Legal Service in the National Assembly, supported by the coalition MPs and also by the opposition United Left. And last but not least, it was announced by the President of the State. In doing so, the responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities must be highlighted in particular, where the Labour Relations Act also falls and which has clearly not found any irregularities in inter-departmental coordination. It is hard to believe that in all this process it was merely a matter of omission or error. However, the adoption of this law has important consequences. From 24 May 2016 there is no longer a legal basis for punishment under as many as four repealed Articles, from 218 to 221. If the Minister of Labour really protects workers so much, which she would like to point out and stress on her own several occasions, I believe that such a mistake should not be allowed to happen. The so-called editorial error, as stated in the bill before us today and, as you like to point out by the coalition Members, has caused two months of legal void in the area of criminal sanctions. This means that violations that have or will have occurred since 24. 6. and until the adoption of the law, as well as those that have happened before, but have not yet been decided by law, will not be sanctioned. The Act on the Offence of Article 2 provides that if the substantive provisions of this Act or a provision providing for an offence are amended after the offence has been committed, the law or regulation which is more minor for the offender shall apply. With this so-called error, you have rehabilitated offenders of labour law offences, up to 24. 5. The legal decision has not yet been taken. In the case at stake, we certainly cannot only talk about editorial error. We can also rightly ask ourselves whether it was an obvious or deliberate mistake, namely a mistake that has major consequences for many employees and rehabilitates violators of labour law. No one was responsible for the mistake until today, not at the government or at the departmental department. We have already proposed an amendment to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party for the Home Committee, with which it could be removed. We wanted to make a mistake. We also wanted to achieve the amendment that we tabled for consideration at this meeting of the National Assembly, the retroactivity of the application of criminal provisions. More about the amendment, of course, in the debate below. If there is indeed a mistake in adopting legislation, there is no minimum reservation not to support our amendment. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, support for the law is tied to support for our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u27	The word is given by the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u28	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members, Members and others present! It rarely happens, but in the legislative process, it can happen that there is an unintentional error in the legislative process, which makes it necessary to remedy the error and to restore the law to its former state in the legislative process. Of course, it is the same, since we are Members and Members of the people's service, so we are expected to constantly improve and adapt to the needs of society. With these we eliminate the consequences of natural disasters, follow the requirements of binding transnational rules and modify some of the arrangements so far. It also happens that we are correcting a certain law where some of the written standards in it are unconstitutional and the guardian of the Constitution orders us to abolish an unconstitutional article. This time, however, we have Members and Members on the benches a proposal for a law that has not come to light for the reasons just stated, but it is a correction of the error made in another legislative procedure and in another law. It was just a misdirection of the Official Journal. Notwithstanding the fact that the error has been minor, that it has been quickly identified and that no one will be harmed as a result, it has been estimated by the Desus Group that everyone involved in the drafting of the legislative texts will be alerted to the situation so that the smallest and most banal errors do not occur. Mistake is human, yet the excuses for a specific mistake are hard to accept. With today's confirmation of the draft law on supplementing the Labour Relations Act, we believe that there will be no future mistakes of this kind. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u29	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bančič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The law before us today raised a lot of dust, not because of content, but because of the reason why we complement it. In the process of adopting the Maritime Code, we believe that, an unwitting error, we can also call it a stampede that should not have happened. The issue is even more difficult, since it has shown that no matter how many different eyes look at certain proposals, we can still get caught up in overlooking something. Of course, it is human to be wrong, but let this procedure be a reminder to all that something like this will never happen again. The appearance of a small print mark could have an unheard-of effect on the protection of workers' rights, which is unacceptable. The Maritime Code has deleted some of the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, which has been amended several times. In this place, therefore, I am thinking about the proposal that the refined texts of laws be adopted more up-to-date, and it would be ideal after any correction, since in this case it has been made clear what can cause only a little carelessness, which is further encouraged sometimes by an almost opaque set of changes. However, today the Ministry, which is not responsible for the mistake, is correcting. The draft law thus eliminates editorial errors in the way that the repealed provisions of the formerly applicable law, which have been repealed with obvious error, are reinstated. These are provisions from 218th to 220th Articles, which are criminal provisions for the minor sanctioning of employers’ offences and offences relating to the user’s management of work with agency workers. The repeal of Article 221, which regulates the competence to impose fines throughout the prescribed range for an individual offence, would mean that the labour inspectors could only impose the minimum prescribed fines. Articles 222 and 223 are repealed as transitional provisions of the ZDR-1 governing the allowance for working and economically dependent persons. Given the obvious error that needs to be addressed, the Social Democrats will, of course, support the proposed amendment to the Labour Relations Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u31	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, President. This law restores sanctions for certain infringements of labour rights to our legal order. This is one of the rare laws in which the urgency of the procedure is actually justified and that is why the socialists will also support this law. However, we do not support other guidelines of the Government in the field of labour rights because they are not acceptable for a short period of time. Regarding the concrete proposal, the following should be said. In order to delete the articles, the Labour Inspectorate could not pass fines for certain offences. It was partly able to rely on the Labour Inspection Act, in part also on the Inspection Control Act. As far as she was successful, it is not clear, so we expect the Government to report on the consequences of this mistake. And since the Committee on Labour has not taken a decision on this request, we will request this information by means of questions sent by the Member States. The second thing we ask the Government to do is to find out where the error occurred and why these errors were not detected at any time. Mistake is human, and being malpractice is a disciplinary offense. The Minister for Infrastructure Peter Gaspersic, responsible for the maritime sector, is objectively responsible for this disciplinary offence. As we are discussing violations of labour rights, I will conclude my position by assessing the work of the Government in this area. We estimate the work in the United Left as insufficient on the basis of the following facts. Firstly, the SMC, Desus and SD coalition has already adopted two rebalances and two annual budgets, in which it has not yet provided sufficient resources for the work inspection. Each year, the number of controlled entities and the extent of the infringements shall be increased. Since 2008, the number of work inspectors has dropped from 87 to 77. The coalition rejects all our proposals to increase funds. That's why things are the way they are. The Labour Inspectorate, which last year found 30 000,805 infringements of workers' rights, has less than €5 million available throughout the year. Now, in comparison, military patrols, which have identified 5 illegal border crossings, have spent 2.2 million in just three months, which is not even included in the basic salary. If we convert this data to an annual level, the government has earmarked only 5 million for 30 000 800 workers' rights violations and 9 million for 15 illegals. Who's crazy here to judge citizens? Secondly, last year the work inspectorate proposed that the Government amend the Labour Inspection Act. In the United Left, we submitted the law to the National Assembly in March with the support of all trade unions. But due to the coalition's client prestige, the inspection still lacks the appropriate powers, and the finers, for example, remain unprotected. Thirdly, not only has the Government failed to provide the legal basis, but the government sector is even one of the largest subscribers of criminal, often illegal agency work. We are talking about $8 million for contracts for external cleaning and security operators. The scope of outsourcing across the public sector is, of course, even greater. Outsourcing is not limited to support activities, but also extends to basic activities. The Ministry of Labour with calls for personal assistants and other social protection creates a number of workers who work for minimum wages, are employed for a certain period of time and do not have collective agreements and unions. Such cases are huge, even growing. The deletion of the provisions of the law may be a mistake that we will correct today by voting, but the anti-social policy of this government is a conscious decision that can only be changed by a change of government and a change of political direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u33	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u34	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the time of the adoption of the Maritime Code, the government or the Ministry of Labour had a major disorder or mistake. It is likely that the human factor was involved, and we Christian Democrats understand that mistakes are taking place and we will not be problem-stricken. We expect, however, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will take this into account, in particular, in its opinions on the laws proposed by the opposition, where it is usually precisely Piccolo's accurate and clear of any inconsistencies and non-systematicity. And a few minutes ago, we also discussed the non-systemic law. We conclude that if this can happen to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities with all the bureaucrat apparatus and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with all the colleagues and advisers, then they will be more reliant on evaluating opposition proposals. As everyone is aware and clear, we do not have the opposition party's wide and professional apparatus at our disposal, which could add the minimum detail to the bill's proposals. Let me add that it is our hope for the Christian Democrats that this error was not intentional and that no one has been temporarily exempt from the sanctions they should have suffered for violations. At the time of the adoption of the Maritime Code, criminal provisions for employers' offences and infringements relating to the user's work with agency workers were repealed. We know that this is a very sensitive area where such mistakes must not occur. For this reason, Christian Democrats will support the amendment of colleagues from the SDS, which regulates this legal void retroactively. Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will support the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups, and we agree that this is indeed one of the few laws that must be dealt with in an urgent manner. We know that we receive most of these laws from the Ministry of Labour, but this urgency is indeed justified here. We have heard the words: obvious error, obvious error, slump, editorial error, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we wonder how this is possible, given how many procedures and institutions this law went through. And with regard to responsibility, something was said on which side is the responsibility. Indeed, the Maritime Code, which falls within the area of infrastructure, repealed the articles in the Labour Relations Act, but that law also went through inter-departmental coordination. I believe that your colleagues from the Ministry of Labour had to examine that law thoroughly. I am really interested in how this coordination has taken place, who has participated and how it is possible that this error has not been corrected. It has been said, and the bill also states that it is a milder sanctioned offence for employers, but it still seems right for me to point out some of them because I personally assess that this is not such a minor offence. In order not to inform workers of the measures taken to protect workers from sexual and other harassment or from harassment in the workplace; to inform workers who are working part-time, to work over agreed working hours; to determine work over full-time; to ensure that the worker is not given a break during working hours, to rest during consecutive working days and weekly rest; to ensure that the worker does not have the right to an annual leave to ensure that the special protection rights of workers who have not yet reached 18 years of age are not guaranteed, and to ensure that workers are ordered to perform work in contravention of Article 184 of this Law – it is for pregnant workers – not to ensure that a worker who is breast-feeding a child who has not yet reached the age of 18 months has a break during working time and so on. In any case, it is difficult to say that it is only mild violations or minor misdemeanors. The content of the article is a little more difficult than the article that has not been annulled, but, however, it is also a serious offense. A mistake like this shouldn't have happened. And if it really was a mistake, then it was even harder for me to understand you, honourable Members of the Coalition, not to support our amendment, which would solve the situation in return. Here you now claim that the Constitutional Court will not agree. Okay, but let the Constitutional Court decide that, not you. In other cases, for example, when it came to depriving our President of his mandate, you also received warnings from distinguished lawyers, and that is when you supported it. But this is about infringements of employers, it's about protecting the workers you like to stress so much, and I don't know what your problem is to accept this amendment. A few on the amendment, let me introduce him to you. What we tabled on the Labour Committee itself was an amendment that would solve retroactivity for the period from 24 May, when this Code of the Sea repealed these articles, and until the adoption of a new one, and also for the latter. But because so many times it was explicitly stressed that this is a criminal case where it can't be solved in this way, we said, okay, and then we go to those in which they actually committed a crime before 24. 5. and have been in proceedings and have not yet been legally decided on. And the retroactivity in the amendment that we propose today concerns precisely these offences. It was also said that this was not a full legal void. We have said that it is a two-month legal void, we have already heard on the committee that it is not a full legal void, so it is but not a full one, and that the Inspectorate has other options. It was said that he could issue an administrative decision to employers, because the problem is in the word "may" – it can or may not. The problem is crimes committed before then and employers have not yet been sanctioned for them. And since, under Article 2 of the Law on Offences in these cases, a minor measure is applicable to the perpetrator, they will not be sanctioned. That is why we want retroactivity, and we propose this with the amendment that we have today, which you have before you. See Article 155 of the Constitution provides that the retroactivity of the law is possible when it requires public benefit and thus does not prejudice the rights acquired. Both conditions are met in this case. If it was indeed a mistake, honourable Members, then please support our amendment and let us really resolve the situation, as it seems that there will actually be no suspicion or doubt here – I will say that if you do not support it, you have reasonable doubts – that you wanted to not sanction someone here. We know that there have been a lot of exposed cases in the past, where agency workers, whom we have heard a lot of also media-exposed cases, have been here a little while ago. We don't know the procedures, we don't know how much it is, we don't really know what this error has happened for this period, but we can solve the situation. If this solution is not correct, then let the Constitutional Court decide on it, not here, because you usually have no problem with it, but only now do you refer to it. Really, I'm calling you again, let's solve the mistake as it should be. It's not about negligible violations, it's not. Think about it, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I ask whether anyone else wants to discuss Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS Group. I'm guessing yes. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I think that my colleague Susana said very clearly why we have tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party because we simply want to retroactively settle the matter back for those two months of vacuum. We have heard many times today that a mistake has been made in adopting this Maritime Code in a way that was adopted because certain articles of the Labour Relations Act have been repealed. I mean, and personally, I'm sure that's a long way from that. At this point, I do not blame those politicians who are sitting here in the National Assembly, that you are guilty of the situation, but I am sure, but I do hope that they are second-rate or third-rate bureaucrats who, in any case, are responsible for the situation they were preparing, but who knew what they were doing, and therefore I think it is extremely important that we begin to sanction those who are employed and responsible in the State or public administration for this – and are well paid for it – that they are doing their work in accordance with the law and all that is written down. But this time it didn't happen. We did not mention this problem and expose it because it would be innocent, but because we are convinced that there was no mistake. I'm going to repeat what I think is very important. See, interdepartmental coordination in the Government, all ministries, have overlooked this story, the Government of Law Service has overlooked it, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has overlooked it, and to the end, where I also see an extremely important problem, but the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which covers it in its entirety and because its Minister also has a party of Social Democrats. The Lady, who represented the position of the Social Democrats, said: "Today the Ministry, which is not responsible for this mistake, is correcting this mistake." How could she say that if this mistake was overlooked? But I don't think it was a mistake that it was a direct story that you didn't track to the politicians. Directed. I'm sure! I cannot believe and no one will convince me that so many of these various services, which are well paid in this society, could have been overlooked in this country. Then, if we wanted to, and then I would be convinced, we would convince the Slovenian Democratic Party that there would be no doubt about what we are talking about today if we supported the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party in order to remedy the situation also for that two-month vacuum that emerged. But don't do that, and I ask myself then, but when I start to develop this in my head, I feel that it wasn't just the bureaucrats who seduced this issue, that they obviously also have the support of politicians, that they also have the support of coalition parties, because otherwise, without any problem, they would support the amendment we have drafted in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Without any problem, because there is no reason — if we want to remedy this matter and if a mistake has been made — for this amendment not to be supported. I see no reason, no rationality, absolutely none! Once again, I want us to understand each other here and make this clear. Look, if one worker makes a mistake, if one entrepreneur, a craftsman makes a mistake, there is no problem, unless it has a good connection with certain political structures, then there is no problem and here perhaps one whole story is caused by this. Some who should be punished for failing to respect the law may have a very strong political connection to this coalition — perhaps. This emptiness also created this emptiness. So that those sanctions would not be imposed. That's what just can't hold it. And together you take political responsibility for what has happened in this situation, if you do not support our amendment, because in that case, if the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment is supported, I will repeat it again, but I would believe and be sure that you are really in the process of correcting your mistake. Even if in one way or another you say that retroactively some things cannot be accomplished – it is possible, only the right way and the right path should be sought. Then I will be sure that a political structure has not protected certain individuals who have broken the law and should pay so many and so many penalties. Last time on the board I listened to the discussions of certain individuals, experts, quasi experts – I mean, this is my assessment – if the inspector can punish or continue the procedure; you can! That's what I warned you about. The lady, for whom I no longer know how it is written, is also, in my opinion, responsible to the Ministry of Labour and Family for missing this matter – this is my assessment, but I no longer remember, the gentleman will probably know whether or not the one who was present on the committee. She even admitted, among other things, that certain offenses could be paid, "may" she said. But if the inspector decides otherwise, he can make a different decision. This is where I see the possible corruption and connection. This bothers me terribly, because in this society of ours, after seeing how bureaucracy works and what it does, how it brings all the politics around, I have to say that that's why I have this feeling. As I said before, the worker will be punished immediately; it is said, bureaucrats, who are well paid, who are unable to do anything to them, who live in this society as small gods and have an entire society under control, and nothing happens to them. At least what you would expect, both in the Legislative and Legal Service, both in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Law Service, at the Ministry of Labour, is to sanction and tell whom they have sanctioned, because they have not done their work in accordance with the legislation and their responsibility for which they are well paid. There can't be such a mistake. We should be responsible for this. At that time, we will show the true face because we want some righteousness to apply in this society. But not on the one hand — yes, the punished, the employers — yes, the punished, those who make mistakes in government and public administration — nothing! And they get a nice salary, a great salary. Simple people see it, my dears, and you can't deny it because you don't have the slightest argument for it. This difference, this injustice in Slovenian society is established so far that people really have enough already. If we, the politicians we are responsible for, who are sent from people to the National Assembly, no matter which party there is, are not going to demand the direct responsibility of those who have done their job badly, then I wonder if we are in the right place here, in this House, whether we are not. This applies to ministries, ministries, ministers, and so also to all of us sitting in the National Assembly, regardless of who comes from which political option or party, because this is not a policy issue. But it could be a policy issue. And it bothers me terribly that politics in the back holds a stand for certain structures, and in the second class of management in our society, that they can do what has happened in this given situation. I'm sure we have to end this. We have to make an end of our credibility. And don't always look for excuses, as the SD lady said today. So as not to continue this topic, SD client, look what's been going on lately! Not to mention the Korean boys, not to mention the whole social field, how they are connected and practically everything is even held in the hands of the Social Democrats. Not to talk about Luke Copper! Read, read what was written in the Journal yesterday, who are those key people who encouraged this story to develop there and cause long-term damage to Slovenia. And so on and so forth. They're Social Democrats! With such Social Democrats, sit SMC in coalition! How long are you gonna keep watching this? In the end, you will bear the full burden, all that has happened will be your fault! On the other hand, they will laugh, make a new customer, whatever, pull left there and continue to function, and before the Slovenian public no ultimate responsibility. And that's what's wrong. It's wrong! You have this power in your hands that we don't have in the opposition. I know that this does not suit the many people sitting in this House today, but it is a fact. The fact that you can read. If today, I wanted to operate with names, I would bring here a diary, which is leftist, but apparently there was a struggle on the left; and this is a strong conflict between two groups; the ones who wanted to get into positions because TES is no longer there, now there is nothing to draw on and now there is a new opportunity. There is a new opportunity of a billion and a half billion; it is said to be the second track, Luke and so on and so on. But I'm not going to continue this debate now. I think slow Slovenians and Slovenians already understand, know where things are going and where to stop things. It is necessary to stop there and in those who maliciously abuse politics, the parties in order to realize their corrupt, sick and thieving interests and goals. Dear Secretary of State, I have a very good opinion on you personally, and I expect you to take the appropriate action in the Ministry, which has actually overlooked this matter and who has been working on this matter. That's what I expect from you. But I don't blame you for this mistake because you can't be responsible, you can only be objective or whatever. Once I know and get the feeling that in this country we are just, that so too an employee must be responsible and fly for every little thing from the job, employers must pay penalties for illegal things, which is right, absolutely, so also public servants must be responsible for their actions and in any way, with sanctions. Such people also have nothing to look for in that position, because today young people who do not have a job are extremely educated, they can't go anywhere, those who are there after ten, fifteen years don't let them near. It is also one of the great problems and problems that plague our society, our country. Here I think it will be necessary to make great moves if we want to achieve those goals that we have together, when we have probably come to this Parliament, all political parties, set as the key to taking this country any step towards the benefit of our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Pogačar, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the course of the debate on this amendment, however, I would like to try to give some more answers to the points of view which have been raised. Let us not forget, and from the time of the implementation of the Maritime Code to this day and to this day, all rights and obligations of workers and employers under the Labour Relations Act apply! This does not mean that employers do not have to respect the rights of workers or workers, so that they do not have to. All arrangements of supervision by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for working on infringements of workers' rights are clear, all rules are clear, all rules of supervision are clear. This means – and here I apologize to the honourable Members of the Fair Šimenka, in fact, in the introduction I used the expression that the inspector can, I thought, because the law, despite this repealed provision, allows him to do so. According to the Inspection Control Act, the inspector is obliged, it is said, not a discretionary right, but here you have misunderstood me a little, and I myself have said a little awkwardly if you want. It is said that under the Inspection Act, an inspector has the right and duty to act. It is said that it is not left to him if he found the offenders the same as the term milder infringement used. [[...]] Here we agree with the Member of Parliament, and you probably share my opinion with all Members. No violation of the Labour Relations Act shall be infringements. Every infringement is serious, every infringement has to be detected and everyone has to be sanctioned. Why did I use that term? The Labour Relations Act has already divided infringements of labour law into three different sets, divided them – because if you listen to me because I answer you, Member of Parliament – it has divided them into three different sets, in 217., 218. and 219. How did he split them? By setting a different range of sanctions, we say that those most severely sanctioned were, of course, the legislator’s intention at that time in 2013 to assess that these violations were the worst. Thus, for example, the infringements which we described as the worst in 217 are punishable by a sanction of between €3,000 and €20,000 for the employer. And these remained in force, and fortunately the Codex of the Sea did not annul them. For example, Article 218 lays down a fine of €500 to €4,000. It is said that they have already been divided here by the legislator into different groups and, given the weight of the sanctions, I have used the term milder or heavier infringements. I could also say the most severely sanctioned infringements would probably be more correct. It has also been pointed out to agency workers, you have rightly warned. Here, I would like to point out that, despite the repeal of article 220 of the Labour Relations Act concerning agency workers, Agency workers are, however, protected in relation to the Agency as their employer under Article 217 of the Labour Relations Act. This Article 220 refers to the relationship between the Agency and the user. This is said to be true, but at the same time it should apply, if there were any intentions, another law should be amended, the Labour Market Regulation Act, which provides that the user of the Agency’s work must comply with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act. Here the fine is even worse, from 10 to 30 thousand euros, and so is the case. Thus, there was no direct impact of this change on the operation of the intervention agencies. As far as the amendment is concerned, I was not present on the committee last week. Absolutely! The amendment you tabled in the title – and I believe it has been put in with very good intentions, I believe – but the amendment, if adopted in such a content, would in some way facilitate the Inspectorate's opinion. I could finish the procedures and so on. But what would happen? In Article 28 of the Constitution, in particular the principle of legality in criminal law, which expressly prohibits retroactive application of criminal provisions and measures. We can say, we can leave it to the Constitutional Court, or I don't know if it makes sense for the National Assembly to accept it knowingly, but I would point to that. If this provision were to be brought before a constitutional procedure, before the Constitutional Court, if there was a violation of the prohibition of retroactivity – otherwise I do not hope to prejudge what the decision of the Constitutional Court would be, this is a matter of the Constitutional Court, this is a matter of the Constitutional Court, I agree with that. But do you imagine hypothetically that the Constitutional Court repeals this provision? All these violators would have a rebuttal request to the State to pay them back, probably with interest, and also an indemnity action against the State. Is that really what we want? Would it not be better to adopt this law as soon as possible in accordance with the urgency procedure, to enter into force the next day after the publication of the Official Journal, and I assure you that we have also learned at the Ministry of Labour that we will be more attentive and such transparency will no longer come. I believe, believe me, such mistakes are extremely rare, but they can happen, they can happen to anyone and they're mistakes. Thus, the Government’s position was the same as that of the parent committee, that the purpose of the amendment was good, but that the problem with compliance with the Constitution, with the prohibition of retroactivity, as pointed out at the meeting of the parent committee by the Government’s Office for Legislation as the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly. However, the decision to adopt is, of course, left to the Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u41	I ask, does anyone else want to discuss this article and the amendment? Mrs. Pretty Chimenka, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I cannot fully agree with the Secretary of State, who said it would be best if this law were adopted as soon as possible. I would say it would be best if we didn't have him on the table at all, because I still find it unacceptable that such a mistake would occur. And really, I'm a little concerned about the silence of coalition MPs who want as much as possible to keep quiet as possible, nothing can be said about this, just let it go, and let it pass, it'll be all O.K. It's not like that! I'm very happy if you think that word can actually mean that it's the inspector's duty to act, then okay, it's a lot easier. But whatever. Our amendment is very well-intentioned because we wanted to find a solution to put matters in order, as if this mistake, if you called it, would not happen. This means that everything would be valid as if it simply did not happen. Therefore retroactivity, because only in this way could we, however we turn, still have a legal void here in the middle, even if this law is adopted today, according to a prediction it is likely to be. There are two months. I wonder if the employer who committed one of these offences, such as on May 30th or early June, will be punished for it. Can he be punished? And I want to know what's going on with these crimes that have been committed up to 24. The 5th wasn't decided on? This is what I would ask you, Madam Secretary of State, to explain further, because it still relates to our amendment. Yes, Article 28 of the Constitution, which prohibits retroactivity of criminal provisions, but since it is not our business, it is a matter for the Constitutional Court to decide; but, nevertheless, it is an identical provision which has already been in force, a so-called error has occurred, and it would probably be a measure of proportionality in the assessment. It's not about something that would have been reinstated and would have been considered backward. So I still think our amendment is in place and I call on the coalition members to support it. Of course, he is in the Constitutional Court to say his own words about this if any of this were disputed. But we would really like if there really was a mistake to find a way to put the matter where it was without this legal void. I mean, it's not gonna work any more than it looks like, but it's the right thing to do. And that no one, because of this mistake from the employers who committed the offence, could get through here in the meantime. Even those that have not yet been decided by law. This is our purpose of our amendment, and it is truly in place. I am really worried, for the first time, that it is already the announcement of the time of the coalition Members, the parliamentary groups, because in fact, more than apparently no one wants to discuss it. I'm a little worried about this silence. That's what I'm gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u43	Mr. Peter Pogacar, Secretary of State, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'm glad, honourable Member, that we've solved this. Once again, I assure you, this is not a "may" matter; the Inspector has the duty to act in accordance with the applicable legislation when he finds out that this is a violation of the law. You asked me specifically, so I will answer: on May 30th, if the inspector found a violation by the employer. Once again; if he has found a violation under Article 217, there is no problem. If he has found under this Article, which at this time, today, is still not applicable and not applicable at this time, Inspector V has essentially the only difference in that he cannot impose a fine, a fine, a penalty of money, and certainly the inspector can also pronounce an administrative decision on such an offence — in an orderly manner, according to his own words — it is said that the employer must arrange something; he can make a prohibition decision to prohibit the continuation of an illegal activity and if the employer fails to comply with it or does not comply with the decision, then the sanction is jeopardised under the Labour Inspection Act, which is much higher than the abolished articles, which is between EUR 4000 and EUR 20 thousand. [[…]] Thus, in this case too, the Labour Inspectorate carried out its tasks, acted, protected the rights of workers. The only difference at that time was that the violators of these violations after 218 and 219 were not subject to fines. And that's all this is about. Once again, I stress the content of the amendment: the purpose is certainly good. So it's to make sure no one gets away with it. That's it. Absolutely, I've already said that the purpose is good. Certainly, however, the problem is that we are talking here about criminal law for violations of legislation where this prohibition of retroactivity, the principle of legality in criminal law and even the prohibition of retroactivity is even more important than otherwise. This was the idea of the Legislative and Legal Service, this was the thought of the Government's Law Service and this is also the thought of the Ministry of Labour. However, thank you very much for your discussion and also for your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I ask, does anyone else want to discuss this point or article? Mr. Marijan Pojbič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to read part of the explanation that we have added to this amendment, and I would like the Secretary of State to comment. That is, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 28 for a stricter protection of the prohibition on the principle of legality, as provided for in Article 2(2) of the Law on Offences, which provides that, if, after the offence has been committed, the rules governing the offence have been amended once or more, a provision which is more lenient for the offender. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 28, however, that offences which are criminalised shall be determined and punished under the law applicable to the commission of a criminal offence, unless the new law for the offender is milder. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia binds the principle of legality in criminal law to the determination and imposition of penalties under the law at the time of the service of the offence or at the time of the later validity of the law. The Offences Act, however, travels to the application of a later minor provision for the offender, irrespective of when the offence or sentence is detected. In view of the fact that the criminal provisions in force before 24 May 2016 are identical to those in force with the application of this Act, the applicant considers that they cannot constitute a constitutional breach under Article 28 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia if the penalties for those offences committed prior to 24 May 2016 are established and imposed upon them after the application of this Act. Offences before 24 May 2016 will therefore be determined and punished by law at the time of service and at the time of the application of this law, which is not nicer to the perpetrator, but the same. The solution proposed does not constitute a non-compliance with Article 28 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but means a different regime which is regulated at the level of the law, i.e. in the applicable Law on Offences. Such retroactive application of the law is also in accordance with Article 155 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the law may provide that individual provisions of the law have an effect to the contrary, if that requirement is a public benefit and does not prejudice the rights acquired. In the event that retroactive application is not established, this would mean the rehabilitation of all offences which are now being reintroduced by Article 1 of the Labour Relations Act and which have been deleted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code. In the second paragraph of Article 2 of the Law on Offences, it is stipulated that if, after the offence has been committed, the substantive provisions of the law which provides for the offence are amended once or more, the law which is milder for the offender shall apply. In the event that all offences have been removed for a certain period of time, that is, in the light of Article 2 of the applicable Law on Offences, that there is no legal basis, more detailed rules, for the prosecution of all offences for which no legal decision has been taken pending the implementation of the new decisions. This fulfils the conditions for retroactive application of the law, since the sanctioning of offences committed under labour law is a requirement for public benefit and the law would not affect the rights acquired by offenders. Most of these violations, which have been erased, constitute a violation of human rights under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia: the right to work, the right to social security, the right to personal dignity and so on, when applied and exercised directly under Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, offences which refer to the precise conduct and prohibitions already laid down by the Labour Relations Act do not constitute a permissible act which would constitute the acquired right of the perpetrator of the offence, since the prohibition of such conduct has already been enacted, but only for a certain period of time has it been deleted as a definition of the offence. Now, Mr Secretary of State, please comment on what I have just said in explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u47	Mr. Secretary of State, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u48	Dear Mr Pojbič, because what you have said, we have carefully read the explanation of your amendment precisely because I have already told you that we understand the purpose and believe that the purpose of this amendment is good. But you have to separate, I'll try to explain, and I'm not a constitutional lawyer, far from knowing. Article 28 of the Constitution prohibits retroactivity in criminal law and is exclusive. 155. Article 15 of the Constitution, to which you refer in the explanation of the amendment, now says that retroactivity is exceptionally permissible when required by the public interest. So there are two different things; specifically, retroactivity in criminal law is strictly prohibited. We are talking here about offences, sanctions, violations of the Labour Relations and fines Act. Article 155 of the Constitution, which you are referring to, is the permissibility of retroactivity, but in conjunction with Article 28 retroactivity in criminal law is never permissible. I'm sorry. Thank you. Perhaps I would ask for further clarification of my position as Director of the Government's Law Service, Mrs Ksenija Mihovar Globokar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u49	That's right. I give the floor to Ms. Ksenija Mihovar Globokar, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Legal Service. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u50	Good-bye! Just like I tried to explain to the board. Why, with all the acceptability of such an amendment in terms of content, it has not been possible or possible to establish such retroactivity from the point of view of the Constitution. In fact, we can only be held responsible for offences for offences if the offence or offence is defined as such at the time of service. Given the fact that we have unfortunately had this vacuum for two months, given the error that has occurred to us in the adoption of the Maritime Code, we cannot now establish a state before this repeal of the provisions. Indeed, I can say very sovereignly that if such a retroactive situation were to be established, the Constitutional Court would certainly find this to be unconstitutional. Therefore, both the Ministry and the Office of the Government of Law or as the Government, as the proponent of this law, cannot agree to your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Globokar. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, please, the word is yours again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Look, the lady who has now explained here is one of those who is behind the situation that has happened. And how can she explain now that she can interpret something sovereignly? How? When she's hiding that she's been going through this story through their camera and no one's been able to track it. And here today to salt the mind that I don't know, it seems distasteful to me instead of taking responsibility for the mistake they've made. [[…]] It's for me to apologize to the National Assembly because you made a big mistake, too little. It is necessary to take appropriate responsibility for this. If a worker can be held accountable for any minority, he will almost lose his job or his employer. You bureaucrats who sit in this company in an excellently paid place, nothing! Make a mistake and now you come to salt your mind so you can talk about something credible. Ma'am, people like that can't speak truthfully who make mistakes like that, and that's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u53	Mrs. Xenia Mihovar Globokar, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much. As Director of the Government of Law, I am aware of this error and, as on the committee, I would like to explain once again why this error has occurred. I know you don't accept this mistake. I must say, we also had a very thorough discussion with a coworker who was reviewing this law about why this error had occurred. If you look at the Maritime Code and look at the applicable Labour Relations Act, you can find that the applicable Labour Relations Act has left a provision that is completely identical by number, the only transparency was citation of the Official Gazette. This wasn't about purpose. This was just about transparency. I believe that 300 articles can make such a mistake. Do I need to put in some kind of procedure in my office right now, some kind of sanction? [[…]] [[advertising in the hall]] But look. [[…]] [[advertising in the hall]] Yes, you can. However, a mistake was not made on purpose, certainly not. In 33 years of service, I do not recall such a mistake, except in the Penal Code ten years ago, which we solved in exactly the same way, we changed the transitional provision and, in fact, moved things forward. This wasn't about any purpose, believe me. It is only and only to overlook the quoting of the Official Journal. Everything else, if you look at it, is exactly the same. The colleague who was looking at this regulation saw above all that the provisions we were repealing were those that were in force until the Law of the Sea was in force. And really, I'm kind of sad that you're reading us a mistake that you should then sanction, I don't know, by cancelling your employment contract or worse. It really wasn't about purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you, too, Madam Director. Mr. Pojbich, you have 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u56	I'll be very brief. Ladies who say that it was not meant to be, I would just like to say that 90% of the traffic offences that anyone commits do not take place intentionally because he may miss a 50 - board and end up paying for the penalty. He has to pay for it. It's a sanction for him, but there's no sanctions for bureaucrats!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, would anyone else like to discuss Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS Group? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Order Act on Defence and Security, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Tani Bogataj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! An essential amendment to the proposed law is the harmonisation of the Law on Public Procurement in the field of defence and security with the new Public Procurement Act, so-called ZJN-3, which entered into force 1. This year's 4th. The Law on Public Procurement in the Field of Defence and Security refers in individual articles to the application of specific provisions of existing laws, i.e. the Law on Public Procurement in 2013 with amendments and the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services in 2011, which also ceased to apply from the date of the entry into force of UNJN-3. At the same time, the Institute of Public Procurement, which is new and otherwise regulated by the JJN-3, also regulates the law in this proposal. Let me list some: it is possible to correct and supplement non-essential parts of the offer. For contracts which are intended to carry out intelligence and anti-intelligence activities or to provide essential security interests, so that they do not need to be subject to public procurement procedures and published on the public procurement portal, the maximum value from which the contracting authority must obtain the agreement of the special interdepartmental commission shall be adjusted to EUR 40,000. This law establishes the same limit value for classified contracts and for security and defence contracts published on the public procurement portal. There are also some crimes from the ZJN-3, which exclude the tenderer from the procurement process – for example, the protection and public promotion of terrorist acts, trafficking in human beings and others. With regard to non-payments of taxes, as is the case with the JJN-3, it also provides that taxes are checked not only but also other compulsory duties and the submission of tax deductions in respect of salaries. A single ZJN-3 shall also govern the records of tenderers with negative references, which shall be maintained by the Ministry of Public Administration. An overview of the tenders shall be provided in the same manner as in ZJN-3 only in the tender of the successful tenderer and only to those who have submitted the full offer. In the same way as in ZJN-3, this law provides for the publication of public procurement decisions on the public procurement portal. So far, these decisions have been served under the Administrative Procedure Act. However, there are also cases in which a contract for the execution of a contract can be concluded before the appeal deadlines expire. The proposed law also takes into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and, in view of the above, proposes that the proposed law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u59	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mrs Janji Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Chairman. At its 23rd regular meeting, on 28 June 2016, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in the Field of Defence and Security submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 9 May 2016. At its 61st meeting, on 13 May 2016, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee was informed in advance of the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on national regulation. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD MPs of 17. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Mr Koprivnikar, the representative of the Minister of Public Administration, pointed out in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed solutions are for changes and complements of a largely undesirable nature, which are primarily due to the recent implementation of the new Public Procurement Act. The Director-General of the Public Procurement Directorate at the Ministry, Mr Sašo Matas, added that the proposed regulation contains some other solutions that mainly stem from the needs of practice. In addition, the payment of taxes is subject to the mandatory verification of tenderers, the records of tenderers with negative references are uniformly regulated and a social note is added in the verification of tenders. In her presentation of their written legal opinion, Mrs Nataša Voršič, Mrs Nataša Voršič, representative of the Legal and Legal Service, stressed that the comments concerned the necessary minor harmonisation within the draft law, which were also duly corrected by the amendments tabled by the members of the coalition. State Councillor Jernej Verbič said that the State Council's proposal for state regulation supports the bill because its members received appropriate explanations and assurances on their inquiries. There was no debate between MPs and Members on the topic of the proposed solutions to the bill. The Committee then adopted amendments from SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 21, 26, 27 and 29. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much. In the field of public procurement, as you are all aware, we have this fundamental law relating to public procurement. We also have this special one concerning public procurement in the water, energy and, of course, the law we are talking about today is the Law on Public Procurement in the field of defence and security. It is logical that we have this law, but mainly for a fundamental reason, because in fact some orders do not go completely public, which is something completely normal in these security defence aspects. It is also quite clear that very little is going through this law, from 0.3 to 0.5% of all public contracts, which is also an indicator of how much we give for the defence and security area. In short, probably not enough. This law is of a very technical nature, it refers to the Public Procurement Act three, which was recently adopted and, of course, these provisions need to be regulated in another way. I hope that they are arranged in such a way that something will not be wrong again in citing it, as was the case with the previous law. In short, then, a law that is not particularly difficult in nature and we will not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Wilfan has the floor and will present the views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you. Honourable Vice President, honourable Members, Members of the Government! Let me start by reminding you that last November the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a completely new Public Procurement Act. At the time of the consideration of the Act, we warned in the Desus Group that it was an extremely important law, with a total of €3.7 billion of public money being spent annually in Slovenia. The amendments and additions to the bill we have today on the parliamentary benches were mainly due to the implementation of the new Public Procurement Act, since, in the first place, the proposed law aligns the references to the previously applicable Public Procurement Act. The Law on Public Procurement in the Field of Defence and Security was last amended in 2014, and the same year a reform of public procurement legislation was carried out in the European Union, under which two Directives were adopted. The Directives have been transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the provisions of the Public Procurement Act which entered into force in April 2016 and, as I have already mentioned, by the proposal we are considering today, we are coordinating the provisions which refer to the old Public Procurement Act. It is not negligible to say that the bill also provides for savings in the state budget and savings in other public funds. These will, however, be small in scope and will arise as a result of the reduction in the cost of service of the procurement decisions in accordance with the law governing the administrative procedure, as they will be published on the public procurement portal after the law has been implemented. The new Public Procurement Act also provides a uniform way of verifying the supplier's compliance with compulsory duties and other monetary non-tax obligations, which, in the new case, also includes the verification of the submission of tax deductions for income from the employment relationship for the past five years. For reasons of unification, the draft law also regulates offences, offences relating to payments for work and records of economic operators with negative references, which prevent candidates and tenderers from participating in the execution of contracts. In the Desus Group, we have already assessed the adoption of the new Public Procurement Act as an extremely large public procurement issue, as has already been demonstrated by the practice of spending public money. We felt that the law needed to be given the opportunity to live in a practice that would make it clear whether it would be necessary to supplement or amend the law. In connection with these amendments to the Public Procurement Act, we will also support the Law on Public Procurement in the field of defence and security in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u65	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new Law on Public Procurement in the field of defence and security, which covers the regulation of procedures for the award of public works contracts, goods and services awarded by contracting authorities in the field of defence and security. The applicant assesses that this is a less demanding intervention in the law but is necessary. The law must be aligned with the new Public Procurement Act three and the two Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council adopted in 2014. At the time of the examination and adoption of the Public Procurement Act, three of us were informed that a new law was being prepared. Notwithstanding the fact that there was no debate on the working body, I would point out some amendments and additions to the draft law. Thus, the law specifies more precisely the admissibility of correcting deficiencies and errors in the offer, which is not regulated in Directive 2009/81 EC, but has already been decided by the Court of Justice of the European Union. This Court has taken the view that, subject to the principle of equal treatment of tenderers and the principle of transparency of the completion and amendment of tenders, it is permissible, provided that the information supplementing or modifying the offer existed before the deadline for the submission of tenders. Where the contracting authority does not provide in the tendering documentation that the failure to submit or provide the wrong information is the reason for the award of the tender under the procurement procedure itself. The amendment regulates the value thresholds for defence and security contracts, which are not regulated by the Directive and leave to the Member States. Simplification of procedures provides for electronic communication rules with tenderers, and to a greater extent also restricts the occurrence of manipulation by investing in legal remedies in cases where there is no actual basis for them. It would also point out an expansion of the set of offences which, in the event of a legal conviction, lead to the exclusion of tenderers from the procurement procedure. With regard to the payment of taxes, similar to the ZJN-3, mandatory verification of tenderers is provided for, and even in this law, the records of tenderers with negative references are uniformly regulated. Under this law, which regulates public procurement in the field of defence and security, about 0.2 to 0.5% of total public procurement is awarded annually. That's what the minister gave us. We agree, however, that these public procurements, where they are of a sensitive nature and do not take place entirely in public, are not largely public, but there is also a need to regulate precise legislation and thus avoid possible irregularities. As I have already stated in the introduction, in the Group of the Social Democrats, we will support that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor and will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. There has already been a lot of talk about public procurement in this mandate, mostly when the third new Public Procurement Act has already been adopted. At that time, the United Left highlighted quite a few shortcomings in this area. We have also made some proposals for improvements, but we have not received the coalition's support, as usual. Our greatest concern is then and still concerns more than the frequent use of the word "may". Back then, we pointed out the fact that the legislation was written in such a way that it could be abused. Another problem we have in the field of public procurement is lack of transparency. And when we talk about public procurement in the area of defence and security, this problem is particularly big because it is a matter of confidential calls. In the past, we have had more than too many calls for such an affair. It is true that a special commission was set up in 2012 to assess whether the individual contract is so sensitive that disclosure of information concerning it would be contrary to the essential security interests of the State. However, it is difficult to judge whether this solution is actually effective, as these orders were much less than before after 2012. It is clear, however, that most purchases of military equipment without an affair have not yet taken place – out of 52 million heavy renovating of T-55 tanks, it buys too much and at the end of six times more expensive of the Role 2 military hospital, the purchase of the outdated Roland II missile system with missiles worth 80,000 euros apiece. Here we also have affairs about the purchase of Israeli hoodies, mortars, six-wheeled wave armored vehicles, and of course the mother of all affairs – Patria. So it would be difficult to say that we have no problems in this area. Controversial, non-transparent and confidential orders are a very big problem. Not just when it comes to military equipment. Recently the most up-to-date and not a little public procurement has been related, for example, to the purchase of cutting wires and panel fences, which the government still places on the Slovenian-Croatian border. The data related to this are, of course, confidential, the price of the cutting wire itself and the panel fences. Neither does the government want to say why and how the companies that set up the fence were selected. Today, therefore, it is a reliable information of how unjust and unnecessary the government of Mira Cerar has stood and in which private pockets money has been made in a completely untransparent way. If we have legislation in this area in such a way that the purchase of cutting wire may be confidential, and if the legislation allows the government in such cases to defend the interests of the State which is supposed to be compromised in the event of disclosure of such data, it is clear that there is something wrong with our legislation. It is also clear why there is no real interest in change in this area. Disclosure of data on the purchase of cutting wire and panel fences would, however, be difficult to jeopardise the interests of the State, but would certainly jeopardise the interests of that government and its related companies, which are increasing their profits on this account. It is clear that legislation allowing such practices to continue cannot be supported in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u69	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u70	Mr President, fellow Members and fellow Members. In addition to pursuing the objective of transparency and the cost-effectiveness of public spending, legal regulation of the field of public procurement should also ensure adequate protection and protection of the parties. Even more so when it comes to public procurement in the field of defence and security. Compliance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act 3 (PGI-3) in parts where the Law on Public Procurement in the Field of Defence and Security refers to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act 2 (PGI-2) and the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services is clearly necessary. The proposed solutions to the shortcomings that have emerged in practice in the implementation of the Law on Public Procurement in the field of defence and security are also welcome. Since this is a particularly sensitive area, due to transparency and more efficient procurement procedures should be defined more clearly, including the definition of individual concepts. It is right that from now on we will know what a formal incomplete offer is and when it must be completed by the tenderer. It is also true that this area of public procurement is aligned with the Public Procurement Act adopted this year (UNSC-3); also with regard to criminal offences, job payments and records of economic operators with negative references, which prevent candidates and tenderers from participating in the selection of contracts. In New Slovenia, however, we reiterate the fact that the public procurement system is a hostage of corruption risks and that corruption in this area costs taxpayers a lot of money that flows into the wrong wallets. The lack of transparency is particularly problematic in the area of confidential public procurement of goods, services and construction, which can also affect the economy. We therefore welcome the proposal to extend the list of offences which, in the event of a legal conviction, constitute the exclusion of tenderers from the procurement procedure. Also as regards the mandatory verification of tenderers, whether all taxes are paid. As far as these aspects are concerned, nothing can apply other than to other public contracts, including payments made by subcontractors. In Novi Slovenija we will support, for these reasons, the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in the field of Defence and Security.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much again. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on public procurement in the field of defence and security, which we are considering today, will, of course, be supported by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. The amendment of the law is to comply with the new Public Procurement Act adopted in November 2015 and to comply with the amended Directives on public procurement in the defence and security field. The current Law on Public Procurement in the Field of Defence and Security refers in individual articles to the application of the provisions of the previous Public Procurement Act and the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services, which have ceased to apply by the adoption of the new Public Procurement Act. As a result, the novelty is aligned with the new provisions. The proposal makes sense to introduce public procurement institutes, which are new and otherwise regulated in the new Public Procurement Act, for example, a more limited view of tenders, a more efficient way of service of procurement decisions, a uniform way of verifying the conditions concerning the tendering capacity. The proposal for a new Law on public procurement in the field of defence and security, prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration, harmonises the references to the individual provisions of the new Public Procurement Act; it also provides a simplification of the regulation of individual public procurement institutions under this Act. It also corrects the other shortcomings of the applicable law which have been demonstrated in its implementation in practice. Otherwise, the aim of the proposer is also to increase transparency and efficiency in the field of public procurement. Thus, the proposal for a novelty is more clearly defined as a formal incomplete offer in relation to the admissible additions and amendments to such an offer. The proposal identifies the possibility that the existence and content of the data from the most favourable offer should not be checked in cases of emergency or crisis. The proposal governs the notification of the supervisory authority or the government in cases where the contract is amended after the execution of the contract for which the new Public Procurement Act is no longer required under the conditions laid down therein; nor does it require the supervisory authority to inform the public procurement portal of its obligation to publish the notice. Furthermore, in accordance with the provisions of the new Public Procurement Act, the proposal introduces a uniform way of verifying the provider's compliance with the payment of contributions to employees. It also newly includes the verification of the submission of tax deductions for income from the employment relationship for the past five years. In the same way as the Public Procurement Act 3 (PGI-3) criminal offences, violations relating to payments for work and records of economic operators with negative references are also regulated, which prevent them from participating in the execution of contracts. In view of all the above, I should say that the amendment of the law has the support of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you all very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Period of the day, it's a proposal for a law on the registration of residents in another defense. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Šefić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u74	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! There's a new law on residence registration ahead of you. The bill eliminates some of the shortcomings of the legislation in force, following a fundamental objective, namely ensuring the accuracy of the data in the Register of Permanent Populations. The objective will be achieved primarily by reducing the possibility of fictitious applications, simplifying and reducing the number of findings, removing administrative barriers to the work of administrative units and reporting agents and reporting obligations in tourism. The permanent population register is consistent and accurate with the actual situation when individuals are registered at the addresses where they truly reside. However, since there are a lot of rights and obligations at home, in practice individuals are often abused by the institution of residence registration. As a result, data in the population register are incorrect and the number of actual permanent residence procedures led by administrative units is increasing annually. However, for individuals who have registered residence at the address where they do not actually reside, administrative units may introduce findings. The aim of the law is to reduce the number of procedures and to reduce them. The statutory residence is intended for the most vulnerable persons who do not otherwise meet the conditions for applying for residence at a specific address. It is clearly defined as a fictitious address, as such allowing the registration of residence and the resulting exercise of rights and duties. The legal residence may be determined only in the determination procedure. The proposal for a law leaves strict conditions for the determination of legal residence. According to the law, the legal residence of the victim of violence in the family or the victim of trafficking in human beings can also be determined only on the proposal of the Centre for Social Work, the State Prosecutor's Office or the police. This eliminates the shortcomings of existing legislation, which has been referred to by the Ombudsman for many years. An important novelty is also the change in the application of temporary residence. In line with the new proposal, temporary residence is valid for two years instead of one, which will halve the work of administrative units with regard to the recording of applications; of course, individuals or landlords will not need to be renewed this year. In parallel, the proposal provides for the possibility of establishing temporary residence for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and not just for foreigners who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, as has been the case so far. The number of temporary residences is also limited, as practice shows that individuals report more temporary residences due to the acquisition of certain rights and not the actual need for temporary stay at the address. The closure of the household records during the four-year transitional period is also an important novelty. In practice, this proved to be inappropriate. The bill provides for more efficient and faster implementation of criminal proceedings. Following the new, the criminal authorities of the administrative unit, which directly implement the provisions of the law, as well as the police and municipal inspectors. Finally, I am also putting forward a strong rationalisation of the work of the hosts in the context of data reporting in tourism. Guest data reporting will be supported by an electronic procedure through a single point, the APIS web applications. Guests or tourist and guest facilities will no longer have to send guest information separately to the statistical office, municipalities and police. Due to the content relating to the simplification of the reporting of hosts, the proposal for a law is inseparably linked to the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hostages Act prepared by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The proposer considers that the solutions presented are appropriate and therefore proposes to adopt a proposal for a law. It also proposes to hold a third review of the bill at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Janji Slugi, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much. At its 23rd session, on 28 June 2016, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the above-mentioned draft law as a working body. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee was presented with the following material: Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, opinion and comments of the City Administration of the Municipality of Ljubljana, opinion of the Municipality of Domžale, opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, review of amendments and opinion of the Council of Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD and by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. A proposal for amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD committees was also submitted to the members and members of the Committee at the meeting. The Committee voted on the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 8 and 14 and of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 21 and 39, and on the proposal for amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD committees and adopted its amendment to the new Article 46a and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 39, which were substantively linked. It also adopted both amendments to Articles 8 and 14 of the SMC, Desus and SD. The Committee of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party did not adopt Article 21. At the meeting, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the comments of the Legislative and Legal Services for the amendments of the members of the coalition were to a greater extent taken into account. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Commission of the National Council of State, who explained that the Commission was in favour of the proposal for a law. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed their support for the bill. They commended the favourable solutions provided by the draft law, whose main purpose is to ensure that the register of permanent residents is consistent with the actual state of residence of individuals, thereby preventing potential abuses in practice. The protection of individuals provided for by the proposal for a law with the possibility of obtaining a legal residence for vulnerable persons has been highlighted. Finally, they highlighted the substantive link between the draft law and the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Hostages, while welcoming the reduction of administrative barriers to tourist workers, the application of guests in one place, which ultimately helps to promote economic development. The Committee considered the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Articles 8 and 14 and adopted them; the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 21 and 39 were adopted with a view to the amendment to Article 39 of the proposal for amendments to the Committee. The amendment to Article 21 was not adopted. The proposal for an amendment to the Committee for a new Article 46a was adopted. The Committee also voted on all articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u78	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The position of the Desus Group to the draft law on residence registration is as follows. The bill, which we have Members and Members of Parliament today on rations, has been in preparation since 2013. The Ministry of the Interior, with the professional public, municipalities and other stakeholders, has prepared a harmonised, completely new law on residence registration. The fact that the law should be upgraded has already been shown by practice, for many abuses occurred in the application of residence, all known cases where unusual numbers of people were reported at one address. Therefore, the basic objective of the bill is to ensure that the register of permanent residents is consistent with the actual state of residence of individuals and thus to avoid daily abuse. Such an arrangement seeks to ensure that data on the permanent residence of individuals, which is essential to national authorities, are properly covered. The address of residence, like many other personal data, is not just a matter of an individual who is not concerned with others. The title of permanent residence may give rise to a number of rights, such as the right to enrol a child in a local kindergarten, the right to certain subsidies and others; therefore, abuses may also be committed. In the light of the prevention of abuse, once again, as demonstrated by practice, the proposal removes the household record, as the current regulation has proved to be inappropriate in practice. The common household gives rise to a number of individual rights, and individuals often change their statements of membership in a particular household. The new law on residence will save people without permanent residence a number of problems, since the law makes the institution of marital residence much better regulated. Since certain groups of individuals do not have an address to live in, for example, the Homelessness Act of 2001 introduced a special category of residence, the so-called marital residence. The law’s proposal, with a view to establishing a legal residence for different groups of individuals, leaves strict conditions for individuals. The legal residence will thus also be possible for those who are not recipients of material aid. This is intended to address the most pressing cases where, despite the consent of the body or organisation, it is not possible to establish a residence. In the Desus Group, we welcome the decisions of the coalition members and members of the Committee on Internal Affairs, who have also supported the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in addition to the amendments of the coalition groups. The amendment summarises the proposal for the legal substance of the Law on Registration of Residence, which was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party this spring and rejected by the National Assembly at that time for the purpose of drafting the new law. Today, however, we have a whole new law on our hands, which will also regulate the provisions on the responsibility for entering data into guest records and the accuracy of the data. In the Desus Group, we welcome and support all amendments to the bill, which have already been presented in more detail by the representative of the Ministry of the Interior. On the basis of all the above, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u79	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman, again for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! To ensure accurate and up-to-date population records and compliance of the population register with the actual state of residence of individuals is certainly important for each society. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the proposed new law on residence registration makes sense to regulate matters in the field of population registration in the Republic of Slovenia also because there are many rights attached to residence. In practice, it often happens that individuals abuse the institution of residence registration by reporting residences on addresses where they do not actually live. As a result, data in the population register are incorrect and the number of actual permanent residence procedures led by administrative units is increasing annually. The proposed law therefore reduces the findings with a view to reducing the number of these procedures. The draft law provides for the possibility of prior informing the applicant of the obligation to terminate the residence of the alien from the date of expiry of the residence permit. One of the objectives of the bill is to remove administrative barriers, which would in practice mean to achieve rationalisation of work in administrative units and, on the other hand, to relieve individuals and landlords. However, uniform practice in the implementation of legislation, which should be achieved through clearly defined concepts and procedures for the implementation of the bill, is a necessary and logical objective. The Institute of Temporary Residence for Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and Foreigners has been established for a period of two years. A more clearly regulated legal residence that allows registration of residence and thus all rights and duties and is defined as a fictitious address of permanent residence. The statutory residence at the municipality allows the registration of residences for homeless persons, individuals established in social institutions, institutions of protection, shelters, prisons. So far, these have been social work centers, where the marital residence for victims of domestic violence, for those who live in safe houses, will continue to be linked to victims of trafficking in human beings. The bill removes the household record, which has in practice proved to be inappropriate. Due to the large number of fictitious applications in practice, the law also complements criminal sanctions in this area. The solutions brought by the new law on the registration of residence are also helpful for tourism workers. Therefore, the two proposed laws on the registration of residence and the novelty of the Hostages Act are also being considered in parallel. According to the new guest book, the new guest book data and other guest accommodation reporting data are to be transmitted only via the internet app Apes, which will greatly simplify and value reporting. Reporting the debtors through a single entry point through which the accommodation establishments will send the necessary information to all eligible entities in need of this information, which will be covered by one administrative source, will replace the current practice when the configuration authorities have to report the same data to the different institutions — the police, municipalities, the tax authority and even the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law will therefore have a positive and favourable effect on small and medium-sized enterprises, as most housing establishments are among them. The proposed regulation concerns about 3,000 accommodation establishments or tourism operators. Reducing financial burdens will also have a positive impact on the competitiveness of business operators. Social Democrats will unanimously support the proposal for a law on the registration of residence and the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Hostages Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. We have discussed the need to amend the law on the registration of residence in the National Assembly on several occasions. In practice, this law has caused quite a number of problems that have been pointed out. For us, the most controversial provision referred to marital residence. The Ombudsman also pointed out this problem every year. For how long we have waited for this problem to be resolved, it is clear that the law before us today was published for the first time in 2011. It was not until five years after our first publication that we received it in the National Assembly. And as far as the problems of marital residence are concerned, a more appropriate solution is certainly essential. These are cases where individuals are left homeless, in prison, in a safe house or in another institution, and their residence is registered at a social work centre or one of the organisations offering assistance. And there were huge problems here. According to the law in force, one of the conditions for applying for legal residence was for an individual to apply where he received assistance. If it was someone who hadn't been helped before, it couldn't be done. As a result, quite a few people were left without a permanent residence application, which is a condition for the exercise of almost all other rights. And this issue and the recommendation for its solution is included in every single report of the Ombudsman. It is high time, then, that this is settled and that this condition is deleted. We hope that the proposed provision is such that it will also allow in practice all those who are in real trouble to exercise all the rights they are entitled to. Of course, a mere change of law is by no means sufficient. The fact that someone is homeless and therefore has a registered residence at the social work center, the congregation, or elsewhere is unacceptable in itself. And in order to prevent this, the wrong social policy of this government and of the coalition must first and foremost be changed. We have presented our proposals in the United Left several times. If the scope of the social state continues to shrink, if it continues to persist in the current minimum income and if we do not adopt solutions that will reduce poverty, there will be more and more of these marital residences. And of course that's not a solution. One is if someone needs to register a residence in a municipality because he is on term of imprisonment, is in a educational institution or because of protection from a violent partner in a safe house. There is something else to say, however, if there is talk about individuals in severe financial distress who are no longer able to pay the rent costs, which, due to a few hundred euros of debt, are in the business process and could still be listed. In these cases, the registration of a legal residence cannot and must not be a solution. Such cases need to be prevented by proper social policy; I am not referring in any way to the failed debt write-off project, the non-constitutional termination of the rent subsidy or the continuation of the treatment of social transfers as interest-free loans. Two of these completely antisocial measures are being addressed even at this meeting of the National Assembly. It also leaves more than a bitter taste. But the law that is before us cannot remove it in itself. As it is said, changes in marital residence have been necessary, and we certainly expect that we will not see this warning in the next report of the Ombudsman. However, there are also two concerns in the United Left regarding the proposal for a law. The first refers to the fact that not all concerns and warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service have been rectified. The second refers to the adoption of the amendment on the home committee. The amendment refers to the responsibility for entering correct data into the guest book. Since the amendment and the new criminal provision are added to the provision that the correct entry is the responsibility of the worker if the host shows that he has handled all due diligence, we are concerned that employers will use this in practice and, as a result, will be fined between 200 and 600 euros in fines for employees. Although we have some concerns about the law, due to the necessary arrangements for the registration of legal residence in the United Left, we will not oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u84	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The number of people in the municipality is important data, especially when we are talking about their permanent residence. This information affects the level of the average received by the municipalities, the number of electoral beneficiaries who have active or passive electoral rights, and many other areas. Although the proposal for a residence registration law is welcome, it brings some significant improvements; there is no surplus, it does not eliminate many dilemmas that occur in practice and interferes with the obligations of the municipalities as well. The address of residence is also linked to a number of social rights that beneficiaries exercise in individual procedures. We know nothing about the number of cases of fictitious residence applications and reports of large numbers of people – 20, 30, as well as 100 fictitious applications in one address on small residential areas. Most of the time it is for third-country nationals who are working in Slovenia and on this basis, in accordance with the law governing elections, also obtain electoral rights. The fact is that the proposal for a new law does not solve these problems. The applicant's assurance that administrative units will verify such a declaration in the findings of the procedure is merely an unrealistic allegation. This has not yet been done, either on their own initiative or at the initiative of municipalities; and this is despite the fact that the current Law on Registration allows this to happen. Although the aim of the new law is to increase the consistency of the permanent population register with the actual housing situation, the problem will not be resolved. In Novi Slovenije we also point out the possibility of applying for permanent residence at the address where the applicant has no right to reside. The applicant shall submit only proof of his right of residence to the administrative unit. And what does that prove? Maybe the property owner's consent, his signature, huh? For we know of cases where the owner finds that a person or several persons have been declared completely powerless at the address of his property without his consent. It is placed in a subordinate position that prevents it from enjoying its property. We are convinced that the law should explicitly lay down the obligation of the owner to submit his consent to register a third party's residence in person on the competent administrative unit. Only in this case would many abuses of this institute be avoided. Let us also look at the institution of marital residence, which allows individuals who cannot be registered as permanent residents to register. These are vulnerable groups of people, homeless people, prisoners who will now have a specific marital residence at the municipality's address; victims of domestic violence and victims of trafficking in human beings at the centre of social work. This fictitious address has consequences for municipalities, as this entails a number of rights and obligations – the right to run for non-profit housing, the right to exercise rights from public funds. In these cases, the administrative unit will only inform the municipality of the registration of a legal residence which will not have any cooperation on this issue. Here we must attach to the opinion of some municipalities that there should also be parties to the procedure in this procedure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State, in view of all these arguments, the shortcomings which are the new law on the application of permanent residence will not be supported by us.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u85	Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u86	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we welcome the way in which this proposal is adopted. Why? Because we would like this parliamentary practice to be enforced so that laws that are interconnected are adopted or treated in parallel. We believe that this can also contribute to the quality of the laws adopted. The bill is not ideal; we have already heard that it has some shortcomings; but it also brings certain benefits, including in the public financial field. I think, above all, as the biggest contribution to the public financial burdens of municipalities, because there is a lot of rights attached to the institution of residence – both social and electoral. And we have a lot of data on how many times this right has also been misused by a fictitious residence application. This is certainly not good, and this must be taken very seriously and worked to improve this situation. The bill also in some way improves the administrative environment towards the population, as procedures are simplified using modern technology and modern ways of regulating residence, procedures are valued due to the rationalisation of work in public administration or in administrative units. That's definitely positive. It will also be able to contribute to a certain extent to the reduction of the number of findings, which once again means rationalisation in administrative units. I'd like to point out the following. As we have recently witnessed a large, intense population movement between the provinces, between countries and the continents, it is of paramount importance that we have a quality system that will also allow effective control of the peoples of our country. This is also very important in terms of ensuring security and preventing crime. The main thing about the whole law is that it also has positive effects on the economy; here I am thinking about the tourism industry. There are also rational solutions, rationalisation of operations and the introduction of a single system, a simplified reporting system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Koleša will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, a good day to you all! The law of residence is one of those laws that largely makes us our everyday life. This law is a fundamental provision governing the application and cancellation of residence for both nationals of the Republic of Slovenia and foreigners. Of course, the obligations of applying and withdrawing should not be understood as restricting freedom of movement. It should be borne in mind that the primary purpose of applying for residence is to keep up-to-date records that enable the actual situation of the population and the movement of the individual. In the second instance, rights and duties are attached to the place of residence, which means the centre of the individual’s life interests. The law that we are considering today represents a kind of mini-reform of the application of residence. He started to prepare almost six years ago, which means he was in coordination with a number of stakeholders; and we are pleased to see the majority consensus of representative local communities. The appropriateness of the proposed solutions was also recognised in the State Council. Youths have also participated in the creation of the novel, drawing attention to solutions that will help to address the problems of young families whose tenants are prevented from applying for permanent residence. The law also implements the recommendation of the Ombudsman that each individual be entitled to a permanent residence. Therefore, the law no longer knows the Institute of Deletions from the Register. The bill also addresses the issue of establishing the legal residence of prisoners. With regard to the nature of the residence application, it should be noted that the application is an administrative procedure, as it determines the rights, obligations and legal benefits of an individual in the field of administrative law. In order to ensure the purpose of the law, it is the duty of the administrative authority to determine in each particular case where an individual resides. It is essential that someone actually lives at a certain address, but it is not an essential circumstance for him or her to live there of his own free will. The law also contains safeguards to prevent fictitious applications. The law reduces the costs incurred by individuals and legal persons for the purpose of removing administrative barriers to citizens by means of electronic communications with the administrative unit, and for entities engaged in tourism to establish a guest register, which is a rationalisation of reporting through an electronicly supported procedure. The Law on Registration of Residence is in this section linked in substance to the amendment of the Hostage Act, which we are also considering at this meeting. The law will better regulate the institution of the so - called marital residence. Due to the issue of funding raised by the municipality in which the social work centre is established, the bill regulates the application of a legal residence at the address of the municipality in which the individual resides. This is also most followed by the basic purpose of the law, since the individual has a registered residence in the area where he is actually located. The municipality will receive and pay contributions for the individual, representing a fair distribution of income and expenditure. With regard to good solutions, special emphasis should be placed on the protection of individuals living in social welfare settings such as safe houses, maternity homes, crisis centres for adults and children who are victims of violence. An anonymous stay at this location is essential to the safety of the victim and is a particularly important circumstance when a restraining order or detention is not imposed on the perpetrator of the violence. Finally, in criminal sanctions, the law follows the objectives of the amendment of the law proposed by the Group of Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have already made it clear that we have rejected the amendment only because of our assessment that more efforts must be made to prevent fictitious applications and that the power of general prevention must be achieved by creating appropriate fines against the weight of the offence. As you can see, we are now lowering our fines more than their proposal. In the course of the treatment on the parent's working body, we also introduced in the amendments their proposal to transfer the criminal responsibility for the accuracy of the registration of guests from the host to the receptor. We point out, however, that the correctness of the data entry is of paramount importance as the data are entered into police records and identify whether they may be among the guests of the persons the police are looking for. On the basis of the above, we will, of course, support the proposal for a law in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The law on the registration of residence is the law that we discussed in February this year on our proposal, in particular the part relating to sanctions. At that time, we assessed that, as you know, after the introduction of the euro, there have been changes to a number of laws that have penal provisions in the form of monetary penalties, where tolars have to be translated into euro. And this marriage is the one that obviously made a big mistake back then. Why? Because he's got a fine of ten. He's literally in his late teens. That is why we also proposed a change at the time. I am sorry that the coalition did not recognize and that in the coalition there was so much to say, the peacock's behaviour and the peacock's pride that they were not prepared to adopt this law at the time. I had already announced that if the marriage was not filed in time, we would file it again. This time I must say that the coalition has somehow kept the promise — this happens rarely, but it obviously happens — and it has sent the law to the National Assembly. As far as the law is concerned, it must be made very clear that all the modernised provisions followed by technology, technology, computer science and so on are still present in terms of reporting people to municipalities or social work centres. But we didn't have any better solutions here either, otherwise we'd probably propose them with amendments. But our amendment has been adopted, which I am particularly pleased with. This is the amendment that I spoke about this speaker in spring or February about the fact that the hotel owner simply cannot be responsible for the lax work of the receptor, which is, say, "soft" instead of "hard" ; or any similar printing error, let's say in my case, often the letter is inserted into the surname. And it's definitely not the hotel's owner's fault, but it's the receptor that introduced it. The coalition has also listened this time, and now there is no other way to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 8th item of the agenda. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on hospitality in another defence. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Aleš Cantarutti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me a few words about the proposed law. You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hostages Act, which will provide a legal basis for the establishment of a register of accommodation establishments. This register will be managed by Apes as an integral part of the simplified reporting project on accommodation, activity or e-reporting. The legal basis for the introduction of the e-report will be provided by a new law on residence registration. Guests will report the guest book only to Apes, no more separate to the police, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the municipality and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. This will greatly relieve and reduce the cost of operating not only to economic operators but also to the authorities that need data. The calculation of administrative costs or burdens has shown that such annual reporting will reduce the administrative burden on business operators in the area of tourism of €560 000 and the public sector somewhere in the amount of €150,000. This will also increase the quality of the data collected, simplify and value reporting, and this way of reporting will also affect the reduction of the grey economy as data capture will be more consistent. After the entry into force of the novel of the Hostage Act, all accommodation facilities will have to be entered in the register of accommodation establishments and obtain a unique identification number. The register will be made public and access to register data will be free of charge. As the precondition for the implementation of the e-reporting measure is the simultaneous implementation of the draft law on the registration of residence, as well as the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Hostages Act, the proposals of both laws are dealt with in a package. I also propose that, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you conclude that a third consideration of the proposed law will also take place at this meeting. Finally, after the first five months of this year, foreign tourists' overnight stays in Slovenia increased by 6% and revenues by 1.5%. We continue in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u94	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State and colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 19th session. 6. 2016 as a parent working body treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. The service made specific comments to the draft law on the individual articles, Articles 2, 4, 5 and 6. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supported the draft law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD Members' Groups, as referred to in Article 2. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service summarized the comments made in the written opinion of the Service and explained that the Service insists on commenting on Article 4 of the Law. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, who explained that they had examined the proposal for a law and comments and the opinions of the associations of tourist farms, and stressed that the proposed solutions meant reducing administrative burdens and therefore supported them. In the short discussion, support was expressed for the bill as e-reporting relieves all business entities. It simplifies the process and establishes uniform reporting. There is also a coalition contract to reduce administrative burdens. The Committee further considered and adopted the amendments to Article 2 of the SMC, Desus and SD. The Committee also voted on all articles of the bill together and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mrs Violeta Tomić, who will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hostages Act. We believe that the introduction of a register of accommodation facilities is useful as it will contribute to a simpler and more transparent performance of the accommodation inn. In addition, the implementation of the e-reporting project will contribute to more transparent business, thereby enabling better control and the possibility of reducing the scope of the grey economy. However, many other issues are raised in this novel of the guise law. A certain simplification of business is welcome, as the regulation of hospitality and tourism activities in Slovenia in some aspects is extremely strict, even non-life, which causes a lot of problems for especially smaller operators of this activity; it does not provide real higher standards for consumers and employees. They are the ones to be mentioned in particular. The position of workers and workers in the tourism industry is very difficult. Wages are shamefully low, and the whole industry suffered damage because of the deregulation of professions, as there is a lack of quality staff. The vast majority of workers and workers are in an extremely chastising position, and much work is done through student travel. These workers are the most exploited because they do not have any labour rights, while at the same time the quality of services for consumers, clearly, cannot be very high, as employees do not have adequate education and skills. This is bad from a broader perspective of the development of tourist stories at the level of the whole country. Above all, this reduces wages and improves working conditions and leads to abuse by employers when, for example, they afford several weeks of unpaid probation for students and students. The deregulation of professions is precisely the measure announced by the Government of Mir Cerar all the time. The rule is already that more socially harmful than a measure is likely to be adopted and implemented by this government set-up headed by the Ministry of Labour, which has long been under the control of the Social Democrats. But the novel that we have before us is also related to another issue, where, apart from empty words, nothing has ever been done. This is Airbnb's online rental portal, where the situation is unordered so far, not to say chaotic. However, the government obviously cannot quickly process the 21st century news. As we say, we will support the amendment of the Hostages Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u98	Dear Presidents, distinguished Members, Members of Parliament! Simplifying bureaucratic barriers is certainly one of the main components for improving the business environment in our country. People should be given time for their work and entrepreneurial vision; administrative burdens should be minimised and simplified as far as possible. The legislation of the state administration must be designed to give effect to the ideas of citizens; unfortunately, this legislation seems to serve too often only for the excuses of the administrative authorities, that one or the other ideas cannot be realized. Addressing such a situation should, in the view of the Christian Democrats, be one of the main priorities of the government. The new law on hospitality is undoubtedly a step in the right direction in this light. The basic reason for the adoption of this law is the need to lay down the legal basis for the establishment and management of the register of accommodation establishments, thereby allowing the implementation of the e-reporting project on guest accommodation. All accommodation establishments will have to register and obtain a unique identification number after this law has been implemented; the register will be made public, and access to data will be free for the first time in one place for all accommodations. However, the quality and up-to-date of data in these establishments will also be significantly increased following the applicant's claim. Guest book data, which will be established on a new basis, and other guest accommodation reporting data will only be available via the Iipes web application, which will simplify and evaluate reporting. Accommodation establishments must now communicate very similar or even similar information to several different institutions — the Statistical Office, the police, the municipality and the competent tax authority. The law introduces simplified bureaucratic procedures and facilitates the work of the guests. In particular, we require the Ministry of New Slovenia to provide all assistance to users in establishing the identification number and in the operation of the envisaged reporting system. According to the entire apparatus that the government has at its disposal, we also lack greater intervention in administrative barriers in various areas in Nova Slovenija. On this occasion, we encourage the government to do more in the future to simplify the bureaucratic obstacles facing the economy and our citizens in general. Dear colleagues and colleagues and distinguished Secretary of State, in Novi Slovenija we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Hostages Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u100	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State. In the Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members, we support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hostages Act because the solutions envisaged contribute to improving the business environment in tourism. Tourism is a sector that has a very large future in rural development, and that is why we see that the effects of this law will be very important and will also contribute very much to the development of rural tourism. We must be aware that we have for several years, a decade, a database of business entities managed by Apes. Why not take advantage of the matter, including technology and this database, if we already have it available; and also in certain cases, this data in these databases is free of charge. The simplified business environment by setting up an e-reporting project will certainly increase efficiency in the collection of tourist fees from municipalities. We must be aware that the municipalities have these funds collected from the tourist tax deliberately set out in their budgets and are returning them to this sector so that these industries are more easily developed and thus have positive effects on their budgets and on the state budget. All these investments also have the effect of opening up new, quality jobs. Above all, opportunities are opened for a young educated staff who speaks several languages. In this way we can create the conditions for these educated young people to find jobs in the environment in which they live. I would also like to highlight the impact on other sectors, such as agriculture, as rural agriculture is also given a certain perspective through the development of tourism. I hope that this law will be adopted in this form, as it appears, and will contribute to what I have highlighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferruga will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State! Allow me to present the position of the Modern Centre Party on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hostages Act. At its 83rd regular session, the Government submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Hostages at the same time as the Proposal for a Law on Registration of Residence, which is a prerequisite for this Act, and forwarded it to the National Assembly for consideration. At the same time, the Government proposed that this should be considered at the same meeting of the National Assembly precisely because of their substantive linkage and the need for simultaneous entry into force and publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. What is the basic purpose and purpose of this law? Introduction of registers of accommodation establishments. This also allows the implementation of the e-mail project, which will significantly reduce administrative barriers to accommodation, tourism and catering activities. With the proposed amendments and additions, the applicant wishes to establish a legal basis for the register of installation facilities to be established and managed by Apes. The draft law sets out the data which will be in this register and will be mandatory for all accommodation facilities. The latter will have to be entered into the Apes register after this law has been implemented, thereby obtaining a unique identification number, the register will be made public, and access to the data will be free of charge. For the first time in one place, all accommodation facilities will be fully covered, which will significantly increase the quality and up-to-date of data and streamline work with this data for data users as well. This will create a more favourable business environment and also reduce the scope of the grey economy. Guests, farmers and paralegals who offer accommodation to guests have so far had to communicate very similar or even similar information to at least four different institutions; from the police, the statistical office, the municipalities and Fursa, which is unnecessary and represents an administrative burden. This leads to a more efficient business, savings in time, reduced costs and a better review of information. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that this is an important step, as it follows a coalition agreement aimed at reducing administrative barriers, including facilitating business operations or decommissioning economic operators; in this particular case, tourist operators. At the same time, the principle Everything in one place is established, which is also very important. In tourism, this government has recognized a very important economic sector or activity with a high potential for development and growth, and is therefore all the more committed to it. We are aware that this sector contributes crucially to the visibility of Slovenia and provides some opportunities for new quality jobs and encourage entrepreneurs to create new businesses. At the same time, this change of law is also seen as a basis or extension for regulating the situation in the area of Airbnb or short-term and individual rentals. We have therefore decided in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre that we will clearly support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hostages Act. We are aware, however, that this is only the first step that is needed in this law, which will have to be radically changed if we are to enable this sector to develop. That is why we call on the competent minister to make systematic efforts to regulate the Hostage Act as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Secretary of State! As a proposal for this law, the Government stated that the proposed amendments to the law would provide a legal basis for the register of accommodation establishments, which, as part of the implementation of the project, will be established and managed by Apes. All accommodation establishments will have to register and obtain a unique identification number after the application of this law. The register will be made public and the data will be accessed free of charge. This will cover all accommodation facilities in the Republic of Slovenia for the first time in one place, according to the applicant. The quality and up-to-date of data on these establishments will also be significantly increased. The draft law sets out the data to be managed in the register and will be mandatory for all accommodation facilities to be registered in the register of establishments by law. The legal basis for the introduction or obligation of e-reporting, according to the applicant, will be provided by means of a new Residence Registration Act. Guests will be provided with data from the guest book, which will also be newly established by the new Residence Registration Act, and other reporting data via a specific online application will only be communicated to the APIs. A single contact point for business facilities will be set up on Ipes, which must report statistics on guest accommodations, as well as for other users of such data. Therefore, according to the applicant, not only business operators will be burdened, but also all authorities that need data. At the same time, the quality of the data collected will also be increased, simplified and the reporting will be appreciated. This method of reporting, according to the applicant, will also have an impact on the reduction of the grey economy as the data collection will be more consistent. We welcome any simplification of bureaucratic barriers in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We are also aware that such data reporting also has a significant impact on residential facilities, mainly in rural areas, which are already somewhat remote from some centres today. This register will also help with various online applications where these establishments could be better promoted. We believe that an important step forward is any substantial simplification in bureaucratic barriers, every recommendation of all smaller installations to reduce obstacles to them; and, on the other hand, to help make rural tourism somehow rise to a higher level. We can therefore welcome the proposer of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group; we believe him; we will therefore not oppose the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! The proposal for a law is aimed at the administrative and financial recovery of business operators and competent authorities. And since we have already taken a deep step into the tourist season, the proposed solution is a necessary relief for all stakeholders. In connection with the new residence registration law, a register of accommodation facilities is established for which Apes will take care. All stakeholders will inform one competent authority by means of e-reporting after their new data. This simplifies the system so far and, more importantly, achieves greater transparency and efficiency in the use of the data obtained. The system will thus, in the opinion of the Desus Group, certainly gain quality, which is a positive signal for the entire tourism industry. Although we support this type of removal of administrative obstacles in the Desus Group, we are convinced that this proposal is not yet fully completed. Slovenia needs much more positive and effective measures, as the tourist potential is not lacking. Focus should be placed on the quality of services based on new unique ideas and on the trend of promoting the country in all areas. The very concern for natural beauty, without building up the entire tourist offer, has long been insufficient. It is true, however, that Slovenian geographical diversity from sea to hill represents that key added value to the strengthening of tourism, which we are often truly aware of. Successful tourism development requires multi-level investment if we are to compete in this economic activity, which offers many opportunities for improvement and development. And as we say, in the Desus Group we are committed to all the necessary efforts that will help to increase the competitiveness of Slovenian tourism; that is why we will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Contributions to Social Security in Other Defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mrs Urški Ban, President of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u108	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 26th session. 6. 2016 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on social security contributions submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption by a group of Members with first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin. In addition to the proposal for legislation, the Committee was also presented with the opinion of the Government, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors; this is an article of the law. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service also attended. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the representative of the applicant highlighted the three main objectives of the bill's proposal, namely reducing the burden of gross wages by social security contributions, further seeking to achieve the opening of more jobs in the economy by reducing the burden of employees and self-employed persons with social security contributions, without increasing the burden of employers. An important aim of the law is also to improve the material situation of the recipients of the minimum wage and payees of four minimum wages by limiting the payment of social security contributions down and up, and by reducing the contribution of the Christmas house in the light of the annual holiday regression. The proposal also considers that the draft law will indeed result in the loss of public funds, while also taking into account the return on income paid and VAT collected due to higher consumption caused by the proposed measures. In addition, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service briefly presented the written opinion of the Service and explained that the amendments tabled followed it; except for the part relating to the regulation of sanctions. In addition, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the reasons why the Government does not support the bill. While it agreed that this area should be properly regulated, it is important to ensure public financial stability, which is being disrupted by the law. It is impossible to support this proposal without at the same time ensuring the social security rights that have already been agreed upon. This area needs to be addressed in parallel with the reform of the health and pension system. Regarding the Christmas tree, she said that the proposed solution was not the most suitable solution for achieving the objective, so the Government proposes that the solution be sought in the context of amendments to the Income Act. A representative of the Council of State also took part in the meeting, which presented the Commission's written opinion on the economy, crafts, tourism and finance, which supports the proposal of the law. The Committee member further suggested that the Committee should, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law would not be suitable for further consideration. Following the discussion, the Committee agreed that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Security Contributions Act was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. In order to present my position, I give the floor to the proposaler mags. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u110	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to taxes, in New Slovenia we have followed this, if we criticize some things, then it is also right to offer alternative solutions. And as far as the tax environment is concerned, things in the world and even in Slovenia are more or less divided into three different categories. One is the taxation of wages, the other is the taxation of capital and the third taxation of real estate. If we look at the competitiveness of Slovenia within these three categories, we can find that Slovenia is relatively competitive in the area of property taxation, that we are also competitive in the taxation of capital. However, we are extremely uncompetitive in the taxation of wages. That is why we wanted to address this problem in Novi Slovenija primarily by means of a legal initiative, how to reduce wage taxation or labour taxation. In doing so, we were looking for a formula that would achieve the following – in order to increase the net income of citizens at the same time and not to increase the costs of employers. According to our own words, we were looking for a solution where gross wages would not increase, but net wages would increase. And in some ways we have found an extremely simple solution; a solution that in some ways sums up the principles and concepts of general ease of income. We pledged as follows that the EUR 3 000 300 of your annual earnings are uncontributed, i.e. untaxed. This means monthly that 275 euros of your earnings would be unburdened with all contributions and taxes. This would increase the net salary of the citizens by as much as 50 euros. In the case of citizens with a minimum wage, this solution would mean that in one year we would receive an additional minimum wage. Why am I telling you these things? Because if we want to encourage the economy, then all the studies show that domestic consumption needs to be increased. However, domestic consumption cannot be increased in any way other than for people to remain in their pockets to spend. And if we make reforms that will leave people in their pockets, 5, 10, 15, 20 euros, then with this money, people cannot help themselves with something that is essential and will not contribute significantly to greater domestic consumption. While the amounts are 500, 600 euros already slightly different. This was one solution we proposed. The second solution referred to the development cap. It seemed incomprehensible to us that in Slovenia the development cap already has extremely rich and espouses. The Espeian people have a development cap set at just over €5 000, while the extremely rich can be optimised by paying off profits and other innovative solutions that reduce their taxation. However, the most affected are highly qualified workers who are employed by these individuals. We also found it difficult to understand the socialist's ability to defend the extension so that the development cap could be rich and not be held by middle-class people. And that's why we put a limit on a four-fold minimum wage to make it a boundary for the development cap. Of course, this line is controversial and we can talk about it. And the third solution was the different taxation of Christmas, much better and much smaller than the present one; because many said that the current taxation of Christmas is excessive and is therefore not served. Our marriage meant three good solutions. As today's debate and the Committee on Finance, which has dealt with this issue, has shown, the majority in this House will vote that these solutions are not suitable for further consideration, which is unfortunate. I think that this would be an important contribution to making it easier and better for citizens to breathe.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. Matei Vraničnik Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u112	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As already mentioned in the first introductory presentation, the Government considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. While the bill addresses the objectives and objectives that are also government priorities, it follows the objective of improving the competitiveness of the economy. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u113	Please, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary has the floor. It also applies, of course, to the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much, and I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u114	We are also looking for solutions to reduce the burden of work, but we need to set a very clear line. Today we are not talking about the taxation of work, we are talking about the burden of contributions. And the applicants forget that the right of an employee under the Labour Relations Act is paid grossly, not netly. And the difference between gross and net wages is the social security contributions that the employees make for their social security and for the social security of other insurers under the mutual solidarity system that we agreed on. This is precisely why we consider that, in terms of social security systems, the proposed law is partial and does not refer to all elements. The level of social security contributions should be discussed together with the debate on pension or health system reform. On the other hand, it is impossible to support the proposal because it constitutes a violation of the financial sustainability of the social security system while at the same time breaking down the public finances system. The proposal, according to the government's assessment, means a reduction in government revenues between €797 million and €826 million. From the point of view of individual public funding, this means an increase in the revenue of the state budget of some 140 million, possibly 145; however, at the same time a reduction in the income of pension and disability insurance of more than 600 million and a reduction in health insurance revenues of more than 326 million. And in the event of such a large public deficit, the applicants do not propose measures to ensure public financial sustainability. In addition to that proposal, it also does not contain an assessment of the understanding, uncertainty and feasibility of the solutions proposed. It is both substantive and nomologically unclear; it is not taken into account in determining the new method of collection of contributions that employers are also liable to contributions, which are not taxable to income, that different procedures are laid down for collecting contributions in the field legislation than for collecting income; nor is it a fact that contributions are not paid from all the revenues of the work. The proposal dramatically increases the administrative complexity of the system for the debtors or insurers and for employers and the Financial Administration. Achieving labour relief is one of the priorities set by the government, but at the same time following and commitments to fiscal consolidation by 2020. At the same time, in a given public financial situation and existing social security systems, it is possible to seek a short-term solution only on taxes, which the government is also actively doing. A package of tax laws was given to the public this week, which is the first step towards decommissioning the income from work. This package also proposes a more favourable tax treatment of part of the salary for business performance, as proposed in this law calls Christmas. It takes account of all the above, once again, of the fact that the Government considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Law on Social Security Contributions, which was again proposed in Parliament by New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – is the result of a hard work of a wide range of people. Let me start by saying that this law would only enter into force 1. 1. 2018; so for the year when we do not yet have the state budget adopted. Many times I am proud to say that Members of New Slovenia visit the territory at least once a month, and in this context we have already crossed Slovenia at least twice since 2012. On these visits we meet craftsmen, entrepreneurs, economists and also simple people, citizens of our country. The solutions we are proposing in the novel are also the result of many of them's proposals. Here we must mention the New Slovenia economic programme, the main proposals of our law fall under the category of low tax and open economy. This is how the bill realizes part of our pre-election promises. The vision of Christian Democrats is a society where the values of freedom, justice and security are fundamental. The bill provides three main solutions to which I will define myself below. The first proposed solution is the introduction of a lower limit for the calculation of social security contributions. The measure would, by analogy, introduce a general benefit by general income relief. The result will be particularly positive for the recipients of the minimum wage, as the monthly net salary would increase by EUR 50; this at the annual level amounts to EUR 600, which is certainly not negligible. It's about 40,000 people, colleagues and colleagues who receive minimum wage. And what is very important and we must mention is that employers would not be more burdened financially. I can say calmly that this measure will indirectly stimulate consumption and, as a result, the start of the Slovenian economy, which we need bloodyly at this time. Another proposed solution is the introduction of a ceiling for the calculation of social security contributions or the introduction of a development cap for all employees in the Republic of Slovenia. There have been many demagogic discussions in Slovenia to date on this measure. Let me just give you a few facts. The cap in Slovenia already exists for self-employed persons, currently placed at 3.5 times the average annual salary in the Republic of Slovenia calculated per month. New Slovenia proposes to limit the amount of social security contributions for all employees upstream to four times the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia, which is currently EUR 3 000 200. We estimate that this would relieve employers in enterprises in technologically intensive activities. At the same time, we would increase the net earnings of engineers and other employees in quality jobs and thus increase their motivation to stay in our country and increase added value. This measure, colleagues and colleagues, would certainly have an impact on the active immigration policy we are witnessing. The migration balance was the worst since 1991 in 2015. Worried. The third proposed measure concerns Christmas or 13th salary. The new Slovenia proposes that the Christmas on the calculation of the contributions be equal to the annual holiday regression. Regression is much less burdened by social security contributions, only in the amount exceeding 70% of the average gross wage in the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that this would motivate more employers to reward their employees at the end of the year for good business. However, employees would receive a fairer amount because they would not have received a good third of the prize from the State. In the field, business owners tell us that they are ready to give up their share of profits in favour of the workers who are their largest capital; however, they expect the country to give up part of the budget revenue. In the New Slovenia Group, after a number of consultations with the social partners, we estimate that the amendment is proposed at the right time, when it is still not in the context of the reform proposals of the current governments – cosmetic amendments to the laws are not reform – and the economy and citizens are literally asking for reliefs to help start the economy in our country. It is not negligible that the law supports virtually all employers' organisations, and some unions have expressed their belief that the law is a good basis for future action. I would also like to say that this and other proposals in some way are also the help of the New Slovenia Government, which is obviously not located in the direction of reforms in Slovenia. However, we must also express our disappointment at the level of the debate or at attempts to silence the substantive debate on our proposal for a law at the meeting of the home working body. And I conclude; in our opinion, the coalition has shown its true face, we are disappointed, it is clear that it is not ready to discuss the substantive proposals for solutions. But when it comes to the opposition's proposals, it is easy and shameless to try to silence the coalition. Colleagues and colleagues, Christian Democrats, we inform you that you will not silence us. For these reasons, Members of the New Slovenia believe that the amendment of the Social Security Contributions Act is appropriate for further consideration and we will vote against the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Bozič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u118	Dear President, Madam Secretary of State from the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! Let me complement the position of the Modern Centre Party Group first with the introductory words that we do not intend to silence you, Sir Horvat, as far as our position is concerned. The proposal from New Slovenia's fellow Members seeks to address the calculation and payment of social security contributions in practically the same way as it was presented at the January meeting of the National Assembly. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre has not changed at this time and would therefore not be fully repeated. However, in our Group of Members, we would like to highlight some of the key points that led us to the re-examination already presented at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy meeting, so that the proposal does not seem appropriate for further consideration. As far as the Modern Centre Party programme is concerned, there was also a provision for a real cap on pension contributions, given that pensions are limited upwards. It was also envisaged that the tax burden on salaries would be loosened. In the framework of the coalition agreement, we have agreed on certain matters with our coalition partners on which we work, and in this context also the restructuring of the tax burden. Just recently, it has been somewhat coalitionly coordinated, which we will be discussing in the autumn, in order to see tax changes in the following year, even in some way of decommissioning; we are looking at around 50 million euro in internal reserves from just over 100 million euros. Furthermore, as far as this proposal is concerned, we are also addressing some things, but in a different way. You mentioned helping the weakest, and the Christmas Eve was mentioned. The proposal, which is now under public scrutiny, provides for certain solutions in this area. And he's looking at something else. And this is not about drastic changes in the system in a way that would have a significant impact on the quality of life of our citizens; in terms of what has already been said by the Secretary of State, what is the impact, say, on the health treasury, of the impact on the pension register. In particular, in the health sector, this problem is that it is not possible to lose as much as €100 million – which is simply a substitute for the budget, as can sometimes be done in the pension fund. And since we have a system of solidarity in health care, it is also important to note why this solidarity exists. Due to pronounced asymmetry. Those who need help are not necessarily those who have enough money to make up for this, if possible, a reduction in the amount of rights from baskets or worse services, the end of medicines and so on. A few ten euros a month, which someone with extremely low incomes would have, does not help him if he had to pay more than ten, more than one hundred, thousands of euros for what he needs from our healthcare system. And here are the most vulnerable — the oldest, perhaps the end of a family with young children. Even now, there are times when they sometimes collect money to perform certain operations abroad that are not done within our system. If we had decided to do so, more would have been important. It is also worth mentioning that we are approaching the medium-term objective of having a balanced budget by 2020, and there will be a lot of work to be done by then. While we are already below three per cent of the deficit, it will still be necessary to make sure that we remain on the right track for some ten or more hundred million euros each year. And in such a time, it is desirable to reduce obligations, but, on the other hand, it has to be replaced in some way. That is why we are talking more about restructuring than reform, although at the expense of some positive measures, in particular in terms of the efficiency of tax collection and recovery and so on, we can provide some additional internal reserves. The solutions proposed here are not easy to take. I would point out, however, that it is positive that such suggestions come to the table to be discussed. However, it is somewhat questionable whether it is advisable to make the same proposals repeatedly because I think it is harder to move forward. In conclusion, the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party on the specific proposal, which we considered inappropriate in January 2016, remains unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u120	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! For the second time, we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Security Contributions proposed by the New Slovenia Group. The main objectives of the principle of this law are divided into three main groups: to reduce the burden of gross wages by social security contributions; to open up more healthy jobs; and to improve the material situation of beneficiaries of minimum wages and beneficiaries of wages of four minimum wages. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree with most of the solutions proposed in this law. We also welcome this law because, in this mandate, the Government of Mir Cerar comes with laws and amendments to laws that impose additional financial, administrative and bureaucratic burdens on the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Such a strong measure was, for example, the introduction of tax boxes, which is totally, we can say, mutilated and destroyed a number of small producers of vegetables, including in the countryside. This is a typical example of heavy burdens, especially administrative obstacles. In this proposal, however, we can see that it is going in a direction where there is no additional burden on the economy. Of course, the net revenue that will be earned by all employees in Slovenia, regardless of whether they are employed in the economy, or whether they are employed in the public administration, is being burdened. Today we count who is true for the worker and who is not for the worker. Who really is the one who would put more in the pockets of workers and workers in the economy or in public administration with their marriage solutions. The fact is that Slovenia does not have a business environment that is oriented in a positive direction. The government's view that tax burdens are on average in the European Union is misleading. The average is average; but when we get to real life, we see that mainly the tax and administrative burdens in Slovenia are those that drive foreign investors and force citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to move more and more abroad. If we additionally relieve employers and employees, we can then expect higher revenues from the budget on the other hand. The government has not assessed with any analysis how much additional revenue these tax burdens would bring to the budget, how much more jobs would they gain, how many less productive citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would be evicted from that country, respected colleagues and colleagues; and how many domestic and foreign investments would be made. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that such a bill is necessary for Slovenia. It is essential that the Government and the National Assembly begin to adopt laws that will burden the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and that there are sufficient laws in this national assembly that have been adopted or are preparing to be adopted, which are actually only extra burdensome. The fact is that Slovenian worker works around the end of July only for the country, respected colleagues and colleagues. Then comes the four, five months when you're actually working for your pocket. At the end of the month, I propose that each worker look at his payment sheet, where it is clear how much contributions and taxes he pays to the State and for health and pension. As you know, we have already proposed a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party a good month ago, we have had discussions, particularly on the subject of how much we pay and what we get from the country through its institutions. And the situation in this area is devastating. In Slovenia, there is a typical example where the country collects everything through its institutions, which work irrationally, unprofitablely, this money spends and somehow charity to the worker back. As a result, respected colleagues and colleagues, you have waiting lines in health care. That's why. As a result, many young people are moving abroad, so that tradesmen mostly in border areas, where I come from, move their crafts across the border. As a result, the number of people who moved to Austria in the middle of their life period, knowing that they would guarantee a decent pension in 15 years through contributions, as this money is recovered earlier and more rationally spent. We can therefore say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, this proposal proposed by colleagues from Nova Slovenije will be reiterated or we will vote against the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Such a law is necessary, it is absolutely necessary, especially for all those who speak daily in Slovenian media to care for workers and workers in this country. Today we prove to you that we are not neoliberals, that we favor workers and workers, and that only them must come into their pocket more. This is the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party and I repeat once again, we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u122	Your Honor, hello to everyone! Allow me to present my position on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Contributions Act. The proposed cases are re-ordered superficially and without specific analysis. Only information is sufficient to understand that the assessment of the financial consequences in the case of the adoption of the law is only framed; and this is significantly undervalued. The indicative projection of the decline in public funds for pension and health allowance amounts to EUR 490 million. The government has seriously examined the matter and, in its opinion, has stated that the overall drop would be significantly higher, amounting to €800 million. So it's almost double the amount. The maximum drop represents a restriction on the payment of social contributions. In the Desus Group, we have repeatedly pointed out the unequal and unfair distribution of the obligation to pay social contributions between employers and employees. So far, the contribution rate has only halved for employers, while workers still pay once more. In the Desus Group, we estimate that a gradual transition to equalisation of the contribution rate could be made. An inflow to the pension fund means the sustainability and independence of the pension fund in relation to other sources of financing. The pension register has also suffered considerable financial damage on this account, so we must now look for new financial resources. We therefore appeal again for the establishment of the demographic reserve fund as soon as possible, and savings could without bad conscience be spent on the payment of pensions and an annual allowance without any limitation scales on the level of the pension and on the decent coordination of pensions. We assume that the applicants do not agree with this, as they would further impoverish the pension fund for around 600 million euros with their entire set of proposals. In addition, for an additional 300 million euro inflows, it would be impossible for it to run into the health treasury. The intervention in the system of paying social security contributions in a way that reduces the income of each cash register, and in the Desus Group we strongly oppose, in particular because the proponents do not specify anywhere how they will compensate for the public financial deficit. Even the Commission of the State Council, in its opinion, calls on the Government to seek alternative financial resources. Some of them have already been intensively planned by the government as part of the proposals for measures for tax restructuring. Applicants are trying to argue that people will have more money and spend more. In the Desus Group, we warn that this is a fraud without adequate assurance; and we do not believe that the growth of private consumption and investment itself will solve the entire budget gap. The social situation of an individual will not only improve by abolishing the obligation to pay social contributions, but rather by offering him the opportunity to earn their wages in the labour market. There is no guarantee of effectiveness of the measure in the field of labour performance taxation. Although we agree in the Desus Group that the tax treatment of Christmas is to be properly defined by law, this does not mean automatic payment for all employees. It has also been shown in the past that lower taxes have not contributed to the competitiveness of the economy or have not seen a particular impact. The savings, which are intended to create new jobs and invest in development, have, unfortunately, mostly ended up in private pockets. Due to Slovenia's continued fiscal efforts to strengthen the sustainability of public finances, however, in the Desus Group we are so much more opposed to any measure that would undermine the system of operation of all three cash registers; we therefore consider that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, in which we will not once again support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Contributions Act for substantive reasons, which were the reason that we rejected the Act even in its consideration 29. This year's 1st. This is because the proposed solutions would result in a public financial incontinence or a public cash flow of almost €800 million; the revenues themselves would contribute to the public treasury of around €140 million. This difference would be known mainly in the pension and disability insurance system and in the health insurance system. There is a great deal of doubt as to whether people with low wages, despite the fact that they would have, say, 50 euros more net wages, could indeed provide adequate pensions and adequate health care. I think it would be better if we all together set a goal of trying to secure a minimum pension of EUR 500 with a balanced public financial policy, and see how this goal can be achieved. Many times and as a rule, Austria has been used as an example from abroad of how this system is regulated there, but only that part of the revenue related to social contributions is shown. These are lower in Austria. Of course, there is no indication of the part that burdens capital or capital gains. This, however, is significantly higher in Austria than in Slovenia and has led to a balanced attitude towards public finances and higher pensions. A similar effort is being made in the new tax legislation, which is under public debate. Surely, however, the fact that this law, which only contributes to the reduction of pension and health insurance funds, cannot be adopted unless, on the other hand, you have no adjusted income to fill this gap. Therefore, after the discussion, we will also vote on the Committee's proposal for a decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, chairman. The law is clearly not suitable for further consideration and we also oppose it in the United Left. If adopted, health and pension bills would have lost almost a billion euros. And since the revenues of both cash registers are already insufficient for decent pensions and normal health care, we can only talk about the assassination of a social state. The result of this proposal would also be a severe fall in employment and gross domestic product. If the law had been adopted, it would have been exactly the opposite of what the Christian Democrats are predicting and what all political parties, with the exception of the United Left, promise in different variations. The neoliberal doctrine that the reduction of taxes would result in an increase in employment does not work in practice. The decline in GDP and government spending due to reduced public spending is significantly greater than the impact of tax reductions. In Slovenia, for example, this is confirmed by the study of Natasha Jemec and co-authors from the Bank of Slovenia. However, if you want to have a practical case, you can look at Bulgaria, which has far the lowest income – 10% for all wages, including the highest. And what the right is proposing today is precisely this – a Bulgarian development model. If I paraphrase the proposer, I can say that this is about drilling a hole in the health and pension register. One billion Euros means more than 18% of the planned revenues of both cash registers, which are already too low. Otherwise, this is not the only proposal of Christian Democrats for the collapse of public finances. In the previous session, if you remember, we discussed the amendment to the Income Law. According to the Ministry of Finance, the net negative impact of these two proposals for public finances would be EUR 1.3 billion, i.e. EUR 826 million from this proposal and EUR 470 million from the loss of income. In a normal country, such a proposal would not go any further than the applicant; nor would the party proposing it reach the entry into parliament. But this is the peripheral neoliberal normality of Slovenia. It is not possible for Christian Democrats to see inconsistencies in these policies. They've been drilling a hole in public finances for ten years. The first Janševa government, with Finance Minister Andrej Bajuk, reduced the corporate income tax from 25% to 20%. It also substantially reduced the income for the highest wages and fully abolished the solidarity tax on capital income. In 2007 and 2008 alone, it created 2.2% of the structural deficit. In other words, the applicants boast that they had a flat budget in 2007. Well, if we take into account the fiscal rule that they're advocating today, we should have at least one billion surpluses. So much for the effectiveness of such policies. In Slovenia we have low pensions due to the deficit in the pension register, so remember who caused this deficit. The first error was the reduction of employers' contributions in 1996. In this account, we lost 12 billion potential revenues only until 2014. Drnovšk's government compensated around 60% of this drop with taxes on paid salaries. Then came the first Yanshe government to abolish the tax completely. And Karl Erjavec did not leave the government when this tax was abolished. And today we have a hole in the pension register. The radical tax cuts in the time of the first and second government of Janša did not bring development, but a lost decade. There weren't so many singing jobs. While 66,000 jobs were created between 2005 and 2008, these jobs did not come due to low taxes but to foreign lending. But all these services were lost by 2012. In 2013, an additional 18,000 lost jobs joined them. That is why we still had 9 thousand jobs in Slovenia at the end of last year, less than in 2005. In the United Left we reject antisocial recipes that have not only proved to be flawed in theory but also in foreign and domestic practice. We also reject the government tax reform, which will increase the revenues of 7.3% of the most paid by €100 million and reduce the budget revenues to this account by €46 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We're done presenting our views. Procedurally, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I want to thank you for letting me go over my time for a few seconds. On the other hand, Mr President, I would expect you to point out that we are considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Security Contributions Act; we do not now have any debate on the evaluation of the programmes of certain political parties, not even New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, and we do not have a single hour of history. It would also be good to remind him that, obviously, colleague Kordiš has a poor memory of the 2004-2008 mandate, when the country's budget was flattened in 2007-2008, when we reduced the country's debt to about 22% of GDP in 2008 – now we are almost four times higher – that then the finance minister, Dr Andrej Bajuk, was appointed European Minister of the Year. We should also remind Mr Kordiš because he always forgets that money does not grow in a tree, but money is created in the economic, that is, the real sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. This, of course, was not procedural, it was a pure debate and, of course, it is incorrect. I will not allow further discussion; it is true, however, that in the introductions, in the positions of the parliamentary groups, we listen to a number of things. And once I reacted to it myself, Mr Tanko immediately beat me to the point that I had no right to do so. Because Mr. Tanko is right here, or I wouldn't mention you. I think that the introduction is what the Group of Members says in its introduction. And I think you could stay with that. Mr. Kordish, please, I hope you will not abuse the procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u130	Thank you very much, chairman. I would like to thank you for this decision that you have just made, which I also wanted to propose to you, because it does not seem right and right, which has just come from the right-wing tribunal. I did not discuss and I did not speak in the United Left's position about not knowing any of the schemes of the parties; but I did talk about the harmfulness of the neo-liberal effects that these programmes bring and are in practice seen today by the proposal of this law. And that is what I think belongs in the position of the United Left Group. I think that such a debate is in the position of any parliamentary group. You yourself have rejected this procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. It wasn't procedural either, it was good. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 14th item of the agenda. We're moving to 22. On the proposal of the Recommendation concerning the provision of a more effective part of the information and security system of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of five Members and first-signed representatives to the National Assembly for consideration. Matthew Tonin. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u132	Good day, Messengers and Messengers! We live in a dangerous and unpredictable world. If wars have been out there for some time now, terrorist activities and actions have been getting closer, including Slovenian borders. Look at Paris, look at Brussels, a little bit in a more distant distance also Madrid and London. Global intelligence and security, or at least European, in some way, responds to these challenges that these moments present. Among other things, there are very intense discussions in Europe on the renewal of intelligence and security services. And recently, we were able to read in one of the dispatches how intensively they work in France in the renovating of security and intelligence services, and they even set up a special parliamentary commission that dealt with this task after all these attacks that took place in France. And one of the fundamentals that this Commission has identified is the lack of cooperation between intelligence services within the country. And this is one way to take jobs at European level to improve the exchange of information within and outside the country, with other partner services. There is also a trend towards increasing funds for the work of security and intelligence services. A very eloquent case in the United Kingdom, which has recently hired a thousand 900, you have just heard, a thousand 900 new intelligence agents or agents. Many countries, among them, are comparable to us, or those to which we want to compare themselves, such as Germany, have gone in the direction of sharpening legislation and enabling better tools for security and intelligence services. The last debate in Germany is very interesting when the German Constitutional Court rejected part of the law which speaks of the powers and tools of the German intelligence services. You know that in Slovenia there is a problem of legislating a very simple IMSI hunter, while in Germany, for example, they have even adopted legislation allowing the installation of specific programmes and equipment that allows for the capture of communication at its source. In today’s world, when cryptography has gone a long way and can be used virtually every citizen on their smartphones, this has also made it significantly worse to intercept communications from security and intelligence services. Of course, we are always at a crossroads or dilemma, and there is always some weight when we fluctuate between human rights and the right to privacy and to allow the work of security and intelligence services. But the fact is that technology has moved forward, that criminal and terrorist associations of these technologies have served and are very cleverly used to their advantage. And if these trends are not adapted to the security and intelligence services, then they will not be able to act effectively against such groups. And what of these three key elements that have been used in the Western world – so there will be no misinterpretation, I am not talking about Africa, I am not talking about Asia or other authoritarian countries, but I am talking about Western Europe – about improving mutual communication on increasing funds and tightening legislation and doing business in Slovenia? Perhaps the only progress we have made is to improve mutual information and cooperation between the Slovenian Soviet Union, the police and the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence. Under the leadership of current Director Klemenčič, this exchange has improved slightly, but of course this is also the only point where we have done something concrete, while at all other points we are significantly lagging behind in legislation and resources. If you look at the budgets of our security and intelligence services today, you find that they are underfunded. As a result, they lack the resources, they have outdated technical equipment, and obsolescence in technical equipment once again reduces the efficiency of these services. Another problem that we have and is also linked to funding is that we do not additionally employ fresh, new personnel, which also have a number of new knowledge, which are particularly important today in the highly technological and cyber world. The age of our agents and employees of security and intelligence services in Slovenia is quite high. And if we want to significantly increase the efficiency of these services, we will also need to reduce the average age, which cannot be done differently than hiring new, highly technologically qualified young people. Another major problem that we as proponents see in the functioning of Slovenian security and intelligence services is internal distribution. The services are internally divided, and I'll dare say things, among the plotters and true patriots. It is patriots who understand what their mission is and that it is their duty to work in the interests of this country, this country. Then you have various plotters who are more interested in their own situation, their own wages and their political preferences, the satisfaction of their political friends and similar stories. Members of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission have received quite a few so-called anonymities in recent times. Anonymous women are the most convenient tool for accounting in particular within the Sova and also the ODS. When these services are unable to agree on how and what to solve a particular problem, then it is likely or most likely that anonymities are presented to us by members of the commission and very often to the media. They are used to attempt to discredit a group within the intelligence service. Of course, such an approach and such work is a major burden for the Owl and the ODS, because the service which is internally divided and which deals primarily with each other's conflicts and internal conflicts cannot focus its energy on its mission, on what they are set up to do, and on what they should do. More time and money spent on mutual accounts can provide less useful information for our country. But you know, in today's world, information is the strongest currency. The more information you have, the stronger you are. If Slovenia wants to work seriously in all this European wealth and public, good information should also be available. Another issue that we are seriously neglecting during this period is overly loose legislation. There were at least two attempts in the National Assembly to sharpen, say, this terrorist law or criminal code. But the opposition has always been rejected as the trigger for these exacerbations under the pretext that everything is okay or that certain things are already being prepared. If we turn again to Western Europe, the Netherlands, France, Germany, then we can see that there has been substantial tightening of legislation concerning so-called Syrian fighters or European citizens fighting on the side of the Islamic State. That they have the legal basis to withdraw travel documents from potential individuals who want to join the Islamic State. In these cases, a very problematic high standard of evidence is that you can convict someone. Many countries have gone to reducing this evidence standard in the sense that voluntary retention in areas controlled by the Islamic State is enough for the European State to take action against you. If everything is not in the best order in Slovenia, the case of Roc Zavbi also speaks, I think the most famous Slovenian terrorist or individual accused of terrorism. While in Slovenia we were unable to convict him of his involvement in armed formations in Syria and Aleppo, apparently these things could have been done by our neighbouring Italians, who accused him of recruiting terrorist fighters. I think that if anything, then this particular case shows us that certainly the Slovenian legislation is not all right. If we cannot condemn an individual, it is obvious that he will be able to be convicted by neighbouring Italy. I think this is just an additional reason to reconsider how to reform legislation to be as effective as possible. It is also important to ask at this point how to renovate, sharpen, enable better preventive action. I have pointed this out many times, and I will now again that there is obviously something very wrong in this Slovenia, that in this Slovenia a young individual, who is originally an atheist, may radicalise a group to the extent that this individual decides to go to the battlefield to Syria. It is obvious that more attention will also have to be paid to individual groups testifying, preaching and talking about a relatively radical version of Islam. If I return to renewal, the renewal of our security intelligence services, it should be stressed that these were built in the 1990s. All the legislation on which these three services are based was adopted in 90. Years when circumstances were dramatically different than they are today. Back then, in a significant sense, we were at risk mainly from the Balkans due to wars in the Balkans, arms trafficking, trade in white goods, drugs and similar stories. Today, threats and dangers have changed significantly, and the structure and functioning of these services have not changed significantly. At least in New Slovenia, we want the Government, which is actually responsible, for these services, especially for the Owl, the Ministry of Defence's intelligence and security service, and also for the police, to start some serious work, to reform and rebuild these services. I think that these calls, proposals to improve these services in particular, must go in the direction of improving their cooperation, how to eliminate duplication of possible tasks, how to make the best use of the resources they have. More needs to be done at the point of a more effective fight against terrorism. Justice Minister Klemenčič himself admitted at one of the last debates on this topic in Parliament that we have some gray foxes that do not specify exactly how things move from criminal investigations to classical intelligence work. However, we must also change the penal code in terms of greater efficiency. In New Slovenia, after we have launched a campaign for a larger defence budget, we are also launching a campaign to renovate intelligence and security services in some way. I hope the government will listen to us at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Janji Slug, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. At its 23rd regular meeting, on 28 June, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered the proposal for a recommendation concerning the provision of a more effective part of the Republic of Slovenia's information and security system, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Group of Members and Members, with the first signed mag. Matthew Tonin, and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 26 May 2016. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Amendments to the NSI Group were tabled within the deadline of business and proposals for amendments were tabled by the coalition groups at the meeting. In the supplementary explanation provided by the Mag on behalf of the applicant. Matthew Tonin briefly explained the reasons why the proposal for a recommendation had been tabled in the parliamentary procedure. In her presentation of the written legal opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the amendments tabled by the New Slovenia Group took due account of their comments and did not comment on the content of the proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. On behalf of the Government or the Ministry of Justice, there is a mag. Goran Klemenčič stressed that the debate on the content of the proposal for a recommendation is considered to be well-intentioned, as he himself agrees that our information and security system is not working optimally. Its upgrade is needed as terrorist threats in the modern system do not rest. It agreed that the system of gaps and grey zones did not eliminate the duplication of tasks in certain segments between the criminal investigation and prosecution authorities, on the one hand, and the security services, on the other. New, better solutions are needed, as security is also a fundamental human right. On behalf of the Ministry of the Interior, Secretary of State Andrej Spang added that the continuity of work and related activities must be ensured. On the human resources issue of the competent services, however, he stressed that at least in the ranks of the police, they had managed to reverse the negative trend of the past years. This will also make it easier to meet the security threats challenges, but they still have a lot of work to do because of the intensive dynamics of changing and complexity of new terrorism-related risks. Ines Konradi of the Ministry of Defence also stressed that, while there will be a relatively good cooperation between the police, intelligence and security services, the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency in this area, it will need to be standardised and also modernised organisationally. A rapid and decisive response to any security threat encountered in this area should be ensured. Mr. Zoran Klemenčič, Director of the Sove, stressed that it is estimated that it is true that the overall situation of the Slovenian intelligence and security system should be satisfactory in certain segments even exemplary. He stressed, however, that the emergence of terrorism in Europe will not be able to eliminate such a well-functioning security and information service, as preventing the radicalisation of individuals and groups is not their work, nor can it be the very nature of the matter. Extremists exist and dealing with this problem is a challenge for society as a whole. In the debate, MEPs and members of the opposition reiterated some of the concerns expressed, and they also agreed that the quality of the staff was difficult to obtain for the relatively low salary paid by the public sector in particular by professional profiles in the field of information technology. Members and members of the coalition also agreed that the shortcomings of the Slovenian Information and Security System should be addressed and thoroughly recast, and that the professional independence of the competent services should finally be ensured without political interference, as has been the case in the past. The Committee adopted the amendments of the New Slovenia Group to point 3 and to the preamble, but did not accept their amendments to points 1, 2, 4 and 5. The Committee also adopted its amendments to paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 5 and to the title. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all points of the draft act together and adopted them and adopted the preamble and the title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Boštjan Šefić, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm not on the list. I'm sorry. You don't have the authority.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u136	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At its meeting on 12 July 2016, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an opinion on the Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the provision of a more effective part of the Information and Security System, submitted by the Group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Matthew Tonin. It follows from this initiative, inter alia, that the initiators are aware of the importance of an effective information and security system to limit national security risks. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also agrees with this finding and therefore some of its activities have been going in this direction over the past period to increase the effectiveness of our intelligence and security system in order to reduce certain risks we face in our security environment. Of course, this awareness is also strengthened in the context of the previous professional discussions that have taken place at different levels, particularly in the direction of strengthening our intelligence and security system. The biggest challenge now is to identify or somehow fill the gap that is emerging and which we have already discussed several times in Parliament. This is a gap between the crime detection authorities, which is between the police and intelligence services. On the other hand, the powers of our intelligence and security services at some point have been limited and, in particular, in the security and anti-intelligence area, there is a gray zone that we need to fill in in the coming period, which is particularly evident in dealing with certain phenomena such as radicalisation, extremism and also in the field of terrorism. Another important element to which we must pay great attention in this coming period is that, on the one hand, we will adapt the powers of intelligence and security services so that they can respond adequately to the challenges of the current time of the new security environment and, on the other hand, we will have adequate control over these services so that we can follow the principle of proportionality throughout the use of these powers. It is also important that what was mentioned in the introduction is the human resources strengthening of all these services. Especially in recent years, we've talked a lot about the police. In fact, some steps have been taken here, but far enough is not enough. On the other hand, we need to strengthen human resources, professionally from all angles and in all areas, from operational to analytical and operational technical personnel, and to ensure that these services are able to manage all the risks we face. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if I withdraw, welcomes and, above all, considers that this debate in the National Assembly is more than useful. The debate within the Committee on Internal Affairs has also been useful and we expect to continue these discussions either in these committees or in the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services on various reports, as well as in the consideration of the legislative proposals and other solutions to be drawn up by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We'll look into this. I don't know now, but I apologize to Mr. Staret if that wasn't true, but I don't think the government sent real paper to the house. We'll clear this up and hope it was the last time. But I think you agree with Mr. Chief's point of view. Okay. Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marjan Dolinšek will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to all, high guests, colleagues, colleagues! In the SMC Group, we are aware of the importance of national security, which is the basis for its smooth development and the importance of safeguarding strategic interests. We therefore agree that the Republic of Slovenia needs an intelligence and security system capable of supporting the country's strategic interests and representing the authority and respect of its partners in the international security environment. Due to changed international circumstances, more resources will have to be invested in the security of the country, people and property. We can't have the wrong idea that security is something permanent and unacceptable. No one will provide security for us. The last reminds us of the migration crisis we have recently faced. We are facing a Ukrainian crisis. Europe is subjected to serious threats and terrorist attacks: Paris, Brussels. There's no end to the crisis in Syria. The issue of foreign terrorist fighters is extremely pressing. The Republic of Macedonia has been in a serious political and security crisis, the security situation in Afghanistan, Libya is deteriorating and could still be listed. The latest informal report by the European Police Office on security threats for 2015 also points to terrorist threats. Slovenia is still a safe country once again, so any fears are exaggerated and most often the subject of political manipulation. According to our assessment of these threats, Slovenian intelligence and security services are responding adequately and we trust them to continue to ensure a high level of security. As regards these potential threats, the intelligence and security services are already strengthening control. At the meeting of the parent’s working body, the director of the Owl also pointed out the latter. The service has already adapted its internal organisation to transnational threats and the control of critical infrastructure, which could represent any potential and terrorist objective, is being strengthened. In the area of counter-terrorism capacity and capacity, Slovenia's readiness was positively assessed by the special expert group in the period 2008-2010. The police, however, were aware of the last speech on the home labour body, that there is a need to ensure the continuity and continuity of the work that has stalled slightly in this area. In addition, cooperation between all intelligence services at national, regional and EU level is important in this area. It is important to be aware, however, that the terrorist threats currently facing Europe will not be able to eliminate only intelligence and security services with their activities, as the causes are very complex. In the SMC, it is recalled that in the past period the intelligence and security services have shared the fate of the financial and economic crisis, which has also been reflected in the reduction of expenditure since 2009, but nevertheless properly and in an appropriate manner, they ensure national security through appropriate measures. However, the material situation of the security services or police is even improving with the arrival of this government by providing additional resources for the functioning of the police. For the first time in recent years, conditions for the normal operational work of the police and the halting of its stagnation trend are allowed. An additional €87 million was provided for technical assets, weapons and transport assets and for additional employment in the Slovenian police. An expert agreement was signed to settle debts under agreements concluded by police officers with previous governments. We were able to hear at the meeting of the mother labour body that the Ministry of Defence will also have more financial resources in the budget for the functioning of the intelligence service at the MORS in 2017. Nevertheless, it is possible to agree with the proposals that the fight against terrorism, prevention and protection should be devoted to more resources and attention at both legislative and operational levels. In the SMC, we welcome constructive debate and cooperation on this point. However, regardless of the nature of national security risks, we will always defend four principles in the SMC in upgrading the information and security system in order to find a balance between protecting human rights and ensuring national security – the principle of protecting parliamentary democracy, constitutional regulation and the interests of the State, the principle of protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms, the principle of separating intelligence and security activities from police activities and the principle of necessity and proportionality in obtaining the information necessary for the functioning of intelligence and security services, specific forms of data acquisition and in carrying out covert investigation measures and other powers of security authorities or police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u140	Your Honor! Security is the value of which we are aware when we lose it. It's a condition of health, of prosperity. It's a condition of everything. If we paraphrase a famous proverb: safety is not everything, but everything without security is nothing. There have been a lot of debates in Parliament over the last period on this issue and almost all were on the initiative of the Commission, which I am leading, this is the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services. Today, when we talk about these recommendations, the basic text and what is now being proposed, we cannot go beyond what has happened in the past period. First, let me just say briefly about the proposed final decision. You know, there's this Murphy law that says if you want to blur it out, make it complicated. And this conclusion, if someone read it three times in a row, would be very interesting if someone else could repeat it and explain to him exactly what its contents are. Therefore, a few words on the original proposals. First of all, we need more expertise from the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. See, this committee has been artificially hampered by the fact that it has not started work for more than half a year after the new term of office of the National Assembly, with a completely miserable and as it later turned out even to be an unconstitutional argument. Well, the real reasons proved to be very quick, because this commission has achieved extraordinary success. You know that in view of the findings of the commission which exposed the illegal work at the Ministry of Defence, specifically its security service, the Prime Minister, Dr Cerar, had to propose the replacement of the then defence minister. Later, we gave timely warning of the upcoming migrant crisis, and we also announced exactly what was going to happen, you can check back. And then some of the SMC comments later, like yes, you could have warned on time, but then the migrants were far away and we were on vacation. Colleagues and colleagues, it would be good to listen to what we say and to hear what is said, but rather to listen to what is said, because it is in the function of security and in the public interest, in the interest of everyone, especially the state and its citizens and citizens together. For this reason, I should also point out that we have recently witnessed considerable interference with information going public. Sometimes this ends with some infamous embarrassment for some kind of media. Like the last time we warned that there was a dangerous period when terrorist attacks were still to be expected, then a medium did a whole personal attack on the President of the Commission, a concrete work. That the parody was perfect, for the parody of what is called left-wing journalism was published in the same number of newspapers as the news that someone connected with Isis, a radical Muslim, shot some 50 people there and some 100 others seriously injured that I did not talk about everything else. On the other hand, it is similar to encountering silence or irresponsibility or, if you wish, taboo darkness when we warned that in the murder of a police officer we witnessed in this tragedy, not everything is as it seems to be opening up a number of questions, including security issues, very serious that they have apparently been carried out inconsistently, if I am very diplomatic, some legal acts. That is why this little reminds us of what happened during the migration crisis last year, and that if all legal rules were consistently implemented, a person would be processed, directed to their Embassy in Ljubljana or to Germany and could not have been killed. But nobody's answering that right now, even though the name that they say is from Germany means "blue" in Arabic. And we would expect this wisdom from the Ministry. When it comes to the National Security Council, we have adopted a unanimous decision on the Commission to revive its work because the Government has completely numbed it for an unknown reason. Above all, I would like, and this is also our common position, that the Government should consistently implement the decision that has been taken to allocate more resources to the police, to the services, to the military, to make the defence system and security in this country again, as this country and its citizens and citizens deserve. Once this decision is reached, the time for everything will remain, and until then, we will hold back on the remaining conclusions, including what is now proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u142	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, Director of the Owl, colleague and colleague. As announced, I am presenting the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for recommendations concerning the provision of a more effective part of the information and security system in the Republic of Slovenia. Ambassadors and Members of New Slovenia have tabled a proposal for recommendations urging the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to approach the upgrading of the information and security system. We have accepted the proposal on the home working body, complemented by a recommendation, as the coalition is still well aware of the importance of the national security of the country. Finally, the competent minister himself pointed to this issue. The fact is that we are witnessing a changed security situation both at the global level and in neighbouring countries. Slovenia is, I must stress this, a safe country, but we must also be prepared for possible security threats. Examples in practice have shown that our intelligence and security system is not optimally set aside. That is why, in the light of the global threat of terrorism, there is also a need for changes or upgrades to the existing system. We need to establish more effective coordination between the competent services and build a modern and effective information and security system and amend outdated legislation. In the new legislation, it will be necessary to specify, inter alia, where the powers of classical services are completed by criminal proceedings and where the powers of security intelligence services begin. Because we have an area that the police are responsible for and an area covered by Owa, and in between is a gray zone, and this needs to be settled. There is also duplication of tasks in certain places and could also be listed. I would like to point out, however, that in the Desus Group, it is not about amending legislation on the nose, but about changing legislation and supplementing it on the basis of previous and well-founded professional discussions. As I have already said, in our Group of Members, we are confident that Slovenia can still be said to be a safe country. After all, this is how our country is assessed abroad. Therefore, we do not agree with those who want to spread fear and a sense of danger among citizens, which was particularly felt during the weeks when refugees or migrants crossed our territory. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that both coalition and opposition parliamentary groups are ready to move together and with all due care and responsibility to prepare and adopt the necessary legal changes, as we have security concerns on the one hand, and on the other hand we need to be careful not to overstep human rights. Let me finish. The Ministry of Justice has already joined the preparation of amendments to the Slovenian Information and Security Agency Act, and we expect the Desus Group to be a good and professionally coordinated bill in the short term. In view of the above, the proposal for a recommendation will be supported by the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues you still insist on. Over the past decade, we have witnessed constant changes that are reflected both in the information society and in the field of security. It's about changes that some people are aware of, and others are just finding out. Peace and security are still perceived by many as something we are given because we live on the right side, even though the security situation in the world is changing so much every day. However, as we are aware that peace and security are not only self-evident, we agree with the proposaler of this point, the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, that it is necessary to check how our security and intelligence services operate, what needs to be changed and updated, and therefore we consider the proposal to be well-intentioned. We can agree with the representatives of the Ministry and the services responsible for the area concerned that the information and security system is not optimally set up. They stressed, however, that cooperation is taking place and that everyone wants a higher quality of cooperation between all services involved at both national and transnational level. Terrorist threats and other elements that affect security systems not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe and elsewhere in the world in the modern system are unfortunately not resting. The implementation of tighter security measures cannot bring global security only in one country, so it is essential, as has already been mentioned, to bring together all security services and to cooperate together, to act, to communicate and, above all, to share information and to ensure the coverage of our entire planet. The Ministry has already embarked on the basis of the rules of law of the Owl since a broad professional debate is scheduled to take place in a round of different stakeholders on the key issues of the future regulatory regime of this law. Regardless of the needs, the transformations, the functioning of security and intelligence services, the continuity of work must be ensured, as well as the good practices that have evolved. In addition to the normative ventilation of this area, adequate resources will also need to be provided not only for equipment, but mainly for quality staff, who will be able to upgrade their skills with the experience of their senior staff. The shortcomings of the Slovenian information system need to be addressed and thoroughly renovated. In doing so, it is important to pay particular attention to the right to privacy, which is now all too often violated or even exploited. In the Group of Social Democrats, we agree with the recommendations we have adopted on the home labour body, especially because we are aware of the importance of national security, which is the basis for smooth development and the importance of protecting the strategic interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. Privatisation and austerity measures have taken several years of life from Slovenian workers than terrorism can at any time. The proposal for a recommendation concerning the provision of a more effective part of the RS information and security system in the first paragraph of the explanatory note notes that the financial crisis has severely weakened the wider security and defence system of the Republic of Slovenia. Regrettably, the financial crisis and the government’s confrontation with it have primarily weakened the ability of people to live a decent life for a normal and a decent person. The number of unemployed is still abnormally high, and mobile forms of employment are becoming more and more standard forms of employment. Those who are regularly employed, however, often receive income that prevents them and their families from surviving. The so-called anti-crisis measures introduced by the Public Finance Balance Act are still ongoing. The government does not show the slightest willingness to put an end to them, and so these measures become some normality even at the time of economic growth. In this light, the increase in the resources and powers of the repressive apparatus is extremely inappropriate, although this is logical in terms of neoliberal political options. Greater social dispersion dictates an increase in the repression against the social weeds caused by neoliberal economic policies. With regard to the content of the original recommendation, the lack of police personnel is not as much a financial problem as the problem of restricting public administration employment in the last few years, based on neoliberal assumptions of a weak country. The Slovenian army, however, is facing a lack of staff not because of financial resources, but because of sufficient financial resources, despite them. The military profession is no longer attractive, which is also largely due to the fact that the defence system is completely flawed today. The Slovenian army is unable to carry out its basic tasks. This is the defense of the state against the attack from outside and is more than intended to service the imperialist operations of NATO. The hearing affair has shown more than the inadequacies of the intelligence and security system to the reckless and superficial work of other services, particularly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is controversial, but I will not lose my words here, because this is not the subject of these recommendations. In the case of Rok Zavbi, the applicants themselves find that the intelligence and security authorities collected data against him so that they were not sufficient for the detention and trial. The Italian authorities collected data on Zavbija's operation in Italy and will judge him there. Our intelligence team didn't keep it a secret. It's just that it's not very common practice for you to collect data on crimes committed by your own citizens in a third country and then deport your own citizens to these third countries before their law enforcement authorities start any proceedings. If we were to do so, we should have given the Syrian Arab Republic a long time ago. After all, he committed the worst crimes right there. The basic proposal for a recommendation, as well as what remains of it after the amendment to the committee, is nothing more than a further securitisation of our society. On behalf of the fight against terrorism, we would extend security services and other security authorities and their powers and powers. In a given situation, when the threat posed by Slovenia by terrorist attacks by Islamist groups is low, this is politely said to be unhygienic and can only serve unwarranted stricter control of individuals, our own fellow citizens. Therefore, in the United Left, we oppose the proposed recommendation to the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u148	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President! The national security of the country is the foundation and guarantee of its existence, it is the highest interest that ensures the prevention and prevention of all events that threaten or threaten our common value – this is peace. Ensuring security in its own territory is one of the most important tasks of the country in the changing world. In view of the emergence of new complex and interlinked forms of security threats that have emerged in the process of globalisation, it has raised a number of questions about the functioning of institutions that ensure the security of the State and its citizens. That is why in New Slovenia we are aware of the changed security conditions in the world and in our immediate neighbourhood, which have recently been linked to the threat of terrorism. This poses a great threat, namely a new form of war, against which we can fight only with common powers and with an effective information and security system capable of detecting any least, I underline the least danger. It is true, as the Director of the Sove, Mr Zoran Klemenčič, that such well-functioning security and information services will not eliminate the phenomenon of terrorism, since preventing the radicalisation of individuals and groups is not their work. This is true, therefore, because the causes of terrorism lie in poor economic, political and other circumstances. However, a well-functioning ODS must detect all kinds of threats that could endanger our security. This is therefore the duty of the Security and Intelligence Service. The European Counter-Terrorism Strategy focuses on 4 main pillars: prevention, protection, persecution and detection. One of the European Union's priorities in this area is therefore to identify and address the factors contributing to radicalisation and processes that lead to radicalisation itself. It is therefore a preventive action that must be completed in our country to the extent that we are able to detect cases such as the Frogs in a timely manner. In our view, one of the problems of the intelligence and security services is also the lack of clear strategic guidance. While these are contained in resolutions, strategies and laws, this is not sufficient if the guidelines are not supported by concrete commitments, including commitments in the form of laws themselves. In Novi Slovenija, we are pleased that the coalition has listened to our proposals at least this time and will also consider, on the basis of the given starting points, the legal powers or powers, the staff, the education and training and the integration of all stakeholders. The proposal for a recommendation regarding the provision of a more effective part of the intelligence and security service in the Republic of Slovenia will, of course, be supported by Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the updated proposal for a recommendation have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the proposal for a recommendation. The vote on the Proposal for a Recommendation will be held in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the Assembly in half an hour in the framework of the votes. Dear Mr Darko Stare, I must apologize to you in explanation, we have received two documents in the National Assembly, the last was the one on which you were mentioned, and I am truly sorry in this regard. I hereby end the 22nd item of the agenda, and I also adjourn the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, which we shall continue by vote at 15.45.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u150	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 3A item on the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Measures to Eliminate the Effects of Freezing and Snow in Agricultural Production between 25 and 30 April 2016 following an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 74 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Working Relations by Emergency Procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 14 May. Seven. 2016, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Suzanne Leup Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, President. We will support our amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Why? The so-called error or editorial error or otherwise is a coalition MP and, last but not least, in the draft law, it has caused two months of legal void in the area of offences under Articles 218 to 222 of the Labour Relations Act. With our proposed amendment, we want to achieve retroactivity in the application of the criminal provisions by 24 May 2016 for all offences committed by 24 May 2016. This means for all those offences which have been committed and have not yet been legally decided upon since the entry into force of the Maritime Code, which has repealed three provisions. Since we do not really want the exploitation to occur, we will, of course, support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u152	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 24 for them and 48 for them. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 of whom voted in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in the Field of Defence and Security, following a reduced procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home work body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 55 of whom were voted against and no one opposed. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on residence registration under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home work body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There were 74 Members and Members present and 66 votes against. The vote was 66.) [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hostages in the framework of the ordinary procedure Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would have made the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present and 60 were voted against and no one opposed them. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Contributions under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Security Contributions Act is not suitable for further consideration. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u153	The New Slovenia Group will vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Perhaps even in the case of this law, the coalition could apply the principle applied to the Slovenian State Holding Act. There the coalition has used the principle that the opposition proposal has itself been amended and supplemented by its own proposals. And even in this case, when our law was made up of three different parts by raising a net minimum wage with a development cap and a different taxation of Christmas, we proposed three novelties, three different concepts, the coalition could choose for itself which one is acceptable to them and arranged it in the way it wants. In view of the fact that the government coalition has now proposed a different tax on Christmas, in this case, the rest of the amendments could only delete the issue of Christmas. We could do the same for any other proposal. In short, I am disturbed by this approach of the government coalition that laws that normally come from the opposition always reject and vote down in principle that they are not suitable for further consideration. Many times it has happened that opposition proposals have been marked unfit for further consideration, and then calls or arguments have been made by the coalition, as to how the new system law will come to pass, and this system law has never come to the fore. My appeal would be that, as you began to behave and act in the case of the Slovenian State Holding Act, you also deal with opposition proposals in other cases. So to approach proactively, to try to supplement this law with amendments as you wish, and in some ways to achieve this by also taking into account the opposition's legislative initiative. I am sure that if we applied the practice set out in the 2004-2008 mandate, when opposition proposals were also taken into account, when the budget proposals were also taken into account, this would significantly relieve the tension between the coalition and the opposition. That must be a good message. My proposal would be to take into account several opposition proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u154	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Mr Tillen Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u155	They almost put me behind a few more seats on the left. This is the same proposal as we discussed in January 2016. At that time we also, I think, devoted five hours to the debate, discussed all of these solutions, which the applicant also highlighted. This is a social contribution solution, and we have now agreed, somehow, in the coalition in recent days, that we will make certain adjustments mainly in the area of income. To some extent they reflect, we can say that we are solving a similar area, but in a different way, with different consequences. So, we are not talking about a multi-million-dollar reduction in funds in some key cash registers, says health and pension, which are also very important to us after all with a social affinity because it is difficult for us to accept that maybe someone with a few ten euros a month could afford a few thousand euros for perhaps additional health services, additional medicines, additional other things coming from this cash register, is said to be cutting the basket that such drastic changes could bring. We are kind of in favour of having a solidarity system and solidarity is needed precisely because the needs for use are extremely asymmetric. It is generally said that this is much more beneficial to say elderly, young families with young children, low incomes, and so on. It is precisely because of these solutions that we do not agree with. Nor would it actually be possible in this law to amend this in the way that we have then led to these solutions that we will discuss, in the autumn, in coalitions. That is also why we are here to support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u156	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Group is given by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, in the United Left of these amendments to the Social Security Contributions Act, we will not support this because there is another type of right-wing proposal for a path to the Bulgarian development model. What they propose means one billion hard drilling of pension and health bills, an effective assassination of public finances, which the proponents promise will not produce. They're nowhere in the world, not in theory, and they can't even be in practice. The only effect of such a general tax burden leads to inequality, leads to a fall of gross social product and leads to an increase in unemployment. So diametrically opposite to the neoliberal dogma, which says that if we cut taxes, economic activity will rise, employment will rise and so on. It has been proven that these are exactly what I said, common dogmas, that they do not drink water in practice. Even the textbook economy of these dogs no longer takes these dogs seriously. This proposal today actually serves only and exclusively some neoliberal propaganda agenda, in terms of what it promises, but it is a pure bluff. If in practice you are interested in what these things look like, you can look at our European member Bulgaria, where they took 10% flat tax on all salaries, but we know what the consequences are, high unemployment, despite people moving to countries, no development prospects and so on. This is the way to the periphery, not the way between the developed state, but even less the way to the social state, to employment and to a good standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u158	Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. See, today we are at a sad moment where the parties who say they support workers in their better position in society, so today the Slovenian Democratic Party and Nova Slovenija prove that the real way of knowing that we value quality labour is through this law. We will vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration, but we will oppose such a law moving forward because it is urgently needed. It is imperative to relieve gross wages, and it is essential that people with minimum wages pay less, especially in the social and health sectors, because these two cashiers operate intransparency, act irrationally and spend all this money, which should then be intended for social and health care. We find that, we have a whole series of investigative commissions. And here's the fact. To say that we are reducing taxes, these are not taxes, these are contributions to the social and health treasury. These are not taxes, respected colleagues and colleagues. These terms need to be known. Therefore, we are convinced that today we are primarily talking about the need for such laws, we need to be competitive in Europe and in the world, so that there will be more foreign investment in Slovenia. More foreign investment means more job creation, more job creation means more contributions and more contributions means more contributions to the treasury. This is a story that is very simple and that works in Europe and the world. It works in those countries, respected colleagues and colleagues, where young people are fleeing today. Young people do not flee to countries where these contributions are large, where all these cashiers act untransparently and irrationally, but run to where cashiers operate transparently, where there are no waitings for someone to pay large contributions and have large waiting types. This is disputed with common sense, respectable colleagues and colleagues. Today we are here and now to take advantage, as I said today, of stepping on the scale of who is really on the side of the workers, of the workers who really appreciate the quality of the workforce. If someone says that a few ten euros a month doesn't mean anything to a net salary worker anymore, I can tell you that it means something. Anyone who has 500 euros in salary means new 40 or 60 euros in the family budget. And today, look, all of you who are messengers of the social state, we are here today to count ourselves, to step on the scale and see how many of you are messengers of the social state. How many of you are in your pants, how many of you are in taking sides with the workers and the workers. This is the whole story of this marriage today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are against the fact that the law is not suitable for further consideration and we are in favour of the continuation of this law and that further consideration may improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u160	Here are the arguments without pants. I ask if anyone else has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. No, no, no. Then we come up with an explanation of the voice in our own name. First of all, Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My friend just texted me so we could be visionaries. Of course, that is why we will vote against it. I will vote against it because we are looking ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a new economic policy. That's what Umar tells us. Umar is not a New Slovenia Institute. Actually, we should all be following the dying. Look, as long as I'm here at number 90, that's the last place in this House, I'll say we need a development cap if you want a social hat. And as long as it doesn't, we won't have any investors. Until we treat the Christmas house differently, there will be no investors here. We're an almost hermetically closed economy. We need a truly open economy. Today only 1,37 people work for one pensioner. This is the worst relationship in the history of Slovenia. Last year we had the worst migration balance since 1991. What is going on or what are we going to do? We need, colleagues and colleagues, a new economic policy. If you want to see in practice how companies work, where they have the wrong business model, you have to go to Venezuela and see how people rush, as they say, into a self-service store and fight for a piece of bread and for a pound of flour. I will vote against this because I want to make at least a little contribution to making at least a few elements of the new economic policy in Slovenia. This would come to us now that optimism is economic optimism and that now, in some ways, the economy is in a rush to give this crash further acceleration, additional oxygen for new jobs, and especially for investments. We have no investments, and this is a terrible problem for this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u162	Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. This proposal, which we have before us, is the product of a vision of the right under the new economic policy. The only problem with this vision is that it looks at Bulgaria. That is why we cannot support him in the United Left because we prefer to look at good practices in the north ourselves. The Bulgarian development model in Slovenian society is not necessarily necessary. On the contrary. If Slovenia has served it so far, it has produced negative results. And if anything, we still have to remove it in these notes and extensions, which are already present in our society. This proposal is antisocial and anti-working and therefore cannot be supported by the United Left as socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u164	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u165	I will vote against the fact that the law is inappropriate for further consideration because I oppose the Venezuelan development model advocated by the United Left. Go watch TV, in the Venezuelan development model, the stores are empty, people are fighting for food, people are hungry. It's a Venezuelan development model. No, thank you very much. What we are proposing, however, is that workers with a minimum wage of 50 euros would have a higher income. People of God, listen, the United Left, which is supposed to stand up for workers, is against people with a minimum wage of 50 euros having a higher minimum income. And they say this is the collapse of the health and social treasury. I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to make one of those mini course economics. So I will say, if more is left in people's pockets, if they have more than 50 euros left a month, that means they can spend that money. If they spend it, they buy it in stores. If they buy, then the entrepreneur can produce the products. To produce them, they can re-employ. But when they start new jobs, these people pay in — which ones? Medical and social cash registers. And this proposal that we propose is to leave more in people's pockets to increase domestic consumption and thus create new jobs to fill health and social cash registers. Now understand who may be fighting for labour rights against it. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u166	Procedurally, Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u167	Dear President, Mr Tonin's explanation was not an explanation for his vote, but it was a controversy with the explanation of Miha Kordiš's voice. Above all, he is a very clear colleague of Tonin, because he knows what we think, he knows what we are defending, so it doesn't really make sense at all that we have an explanation of the voice in our own name, if he already knows what we want and who we stand for and how. So thank you very much, colleague Tonin. You don't have to tell me anything. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u168	First, wait a minute, it was procedural. It was procedurally correct in the sense that none of these explanations, in their own name at this time, had anything to do with explanations of vote, not even their own vote. However, there are clearly two models on which we vote: Bulgarian and Venezuelan. I would like to discuss in the Slovenian Parliament what we will accept in Slovenia [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm just finding out the facts. Now I would like to ask you to discuss from here on the point where we are, our own voice and no other voice. We are at the point of explanation of vote on our own behalf. Procedurally, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u169	President of the National Assembly, I think you should protect me. I was absolutely explaining my own voice. And if you go to look at the magnetogram of my debate, you'll be able to see that at the very beginning I've told you how I'm going to vote. I'll vote against it. From here on out, I hope, the President of the National Assembly, that you are allowing democracy and freedom of debate for us Members to explain this voice against us as we think it is right. And given the things that have been discussed in this House, I have my vote against the reasons, as I have explained it. And that's probably a matter of democracy. And another thing where you were wrong. We're not talking about a Bulgarian model. This model, which we propose, is a model for Slovenia, is a model for creating more jobs in Slovenia. President of the National Assembly, I do not think I expect too much if I expect you to respect the legislative proposals of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u170	There was no disrespect, but from the entire debate I understood that we were only talking about this and that the whole matter had gone to debate, but not to an explanation of our own voice, and that it was intended, because we had already received explanations of vote on behalf of the sent groups, and the addition of fire or oil to fire on one side and on the other, that is the fact that [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Procedurally, colleague of Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u171	Look, there's one other thing you forgot to alert Ambassador Violeto Tomić. She was telling me how I knew. Yes, for God's sake, because your Ambassador, Miha Kordish, has explained what the position of the Group will be, how can I not then know what it will be like?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u172	Can we stop with these procedural ones when it doesn't make any sense? Whoever else has an explanation for their vote in their own name, please sign up. Violeta Tomić has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u173	Now I have to talk, because I don't even know what the problem is. Both New Slovenia and the United Left will vote against. Of course, it's probably from a variety of arguments, but it's also legitimate, because we said we were in the temple of democracy. That is why I do not see any valid reason, nor any rational reason, now that we are approaching the holiday time to argue about what we are actually agreeing on, of course, that we are against. But out of some inclinations which are against, my dears, let us let ourselves stand. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u174	Mrs Ludmila Novak has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u175	I will vote against the conclusion that our marriage is not appropriate because I think it is very appropriate. We all know that in Slovenia there are many low wages, so we have predicted that those who have the lowest wages to have a higher net salary, so that we do not put more pressure on the economy at the same time. We all know that the economy is the foundation on which we can build a country. The economy that pays taxes is the foundation of the social state. On the other hand, I have heard several times in various companies in Slovenia that young educated people who need them simply leave because the difference between net and gross wages in Slovenia is completely inappropriate when compared with competing Western countries. As a result, educated personnel, developmental personnel, those we need, are going abroad because there can be a much higher net salary on the same gross salary. And a third reason. Look, why don't you give the company that's standing up a little bit better a Christmas? And usually they're looking for tours, transportations to give the state less so that workers can be rewarded more. And that's what we predicted. I will not argue with the United Left, but I now find that, in fact, in what you have coordinated on the mini-tax reform, you are partially imitating us, only the difference is that you companies are further burdened, and we believe that this is wrong, but we have proposed more realistic and appropriate measures. That's why I support our marriage and I'm against your decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u176	Before passing on, let me inform you that a new amendment has been tabled for the 10th point under the heading 'new' and a new harmonisation amendment has been published, which we will vote on after the end of the 21st point, that is to say in the end. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you, President. Look, I'm gonna try to explain some of the TV economy today, but if I don't have more than, I think, three minutes. First thing. Today we are really talking about workers and workers. With regard to the contributions that the predecessors have discussed today, we are fighting against institutions, respected colleagues who are too expensive, untransparent and irrational. I'll just give you one case. All of these workers, who have 600 euros in salaries, are paying RTV contributions. RTV employs 2 thousand 450 people in the morning, 400 people in the hospital, 300 in the morning go to cosmetics, two in the market, morning come with a stamp card, an afternoon stamp card. Do you find this moral and ethical, respected colleagues? Does this seem moral and ethical to your workers who work for 400 euros? Are you crazy? And the sequel. The health system, each stent costing 250 euros in Germany, costs 1,000 euros in Slovenia. Every aspirin that costs less than the euro in Macedonia costs three euros in Slovenia. Is this moral and ethical to workers and workers in Slovenia, respected colleagues? Each software program in both ministries costs 10 to 15 times more than in Germany. Is that normal? Where does all this stuff go? Is it normal for us to have the most expensive judicial system with the most judges, with the most judicial backlog? Who's paying for this? Workers and workers. Who's social now, who's for workers and workers. And this law forces institutions to go into reform, not to be artificially employed in institutions, to have transparent prices and to act as an economy. That's the point of this marriage. And a respected colleague of yours was talking about Venezuela, I read every morning in Spiegel or Focus that Coca Coca can't even make Coke in Venezuela, because they don't even have sugar to eat, all those who have been supporting the former totalitarian are eating out of garbage cans today. People die in the streets. All this is your story, it's going down today, socialism has always failed, and that's the biggest problem. The problem is defending something that never worked. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u178	In your explanation of vote, please state how you are going to vote. Clearly, I'm a teleban, yeah, that's all that's clear. But it's probably just everyone else who listens to us. So it would be wise to stick to the darkness we're talking about. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u179	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will vote against this because I want this marriage to come to life. And that's a mini-tax reform. It's a two-pronged law. More jobs and a bigger net salary. I simply do not understand how you can oppose this proposal of New Slovenia – more jobs and more net wages. See, Slovenia is an over-contributed country and lower contributions amount to a higher net salary. The ones with the minimum wage following this proposal would get 50 euros more per month in their wallets. What would we do with 50 Euros more? They'd be wasted in stores. I'd turn the money around again. Today, the best generations, the middle generation, 15 thousand of these people are moving abroad. Why? Even because they're too taxed here. This is also why they are looking for new opportunities to pay better, as employers here cannot afford such a salary. And this marriage is also a step towards preventing the brain from escaping. And last but not least, Christmas Eve. Why are you against employers rewarding their Christmas workers? Why? This law also entails that employers can reward their employees and pay them Christmases because now Christmas is too taxed. This law actually deserves support because Slovenia is overburdened and over-contributed. And you know what they say, socialism lives and is good until the money of others runs out.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u180	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Iva Dimic has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you very much, President. I don't know or partly know how it happens in other foreign countries. But I know very well what the relationship is between people and workers in our country. In our country, we have more and more people with minimum wage. More and more people asking for help from humanitarian organizations such as the Red Cross and Karitas. More and more people who are ashamed to ask for help are living in some social misery. Our proposal for a law goes in the direction of giving these people something more. That's why we're here in this national council to do good for people. And if 50 euros is not enough to help these people to have more to pay for their own lunches to children, lunches at school or anything else, I no longer know the direction of this policy, social policy in this country. If we don't listen to the ones who need it the most. And these are people with minimum wage. In these days, these weeks in this national assembly, much has been said. And it is simply unreasonable how can we say that these people are not, that these people don't need 50 more euros a month and that it means something to them. I don't understand today's thinking in this national council. I will vote against this and for our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u182	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I will vote against the fact that the law is not suitable for further consideration for several reasons. One is the social aspect, and we have already talked about this, and many colleagues and colleagues have stressed this. And I agree with that. The second reason is that, in fact, in this national assembly, we will have to deal with our competitiveness once and for all, and that we really need to reduce all the burdens of businesses, because we are actually living from companies and living the whole public sector. These companies actually provide the prosperity we have today, and they can provide even greater prosperity for people. In short, much needs to be done for competitiveness. We in the National Assembly discussed one information a few weeks ago, where there is one information that points to our situation in our burdens and our tax system. It pays a thousand 500 euros gross, which is Slovenia's average salary, is taxed at 200 euros more in Slovenia than in Austria. Out of a thousand 500 euros in Austria, a worker receives 200 euros more net wages. And that's worrying. Same amount. And once again, ladies and gentlemen, these problems need to be tackled, and we need to bite into this perhaps a little sour apple for the economy and for the welfare of the people. Now we have this possibility that the law will go into further proceedings and that we will also put an end to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u184	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. There were 48 votes in favour and 25. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the provision of a more effective part of the Republic of Slovenia's information and security system. Since the amendments to the supplementary proposal have not been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a recommendation. I am informing you that the Legislative Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home work body would make the recommendation inconsistent. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u185	Your Honor! About 9 months later, the National Assembly adopted recommendations drawn up by the Commission, which I run. The essence of these recommendations was that it was necessary to change policy and increase funds for security, so it is directed to the military, which is intended for the police, and is intended for all other services that are responsible for the safety of citizens and citizens. Security is a fundamental value, not everything, but everything without security is nothing. Nothing means the possibility of health care, nothing means the possibility of education if there's no safety. Security is the foundation of prosperity. Nine months passed, and within nine months, a woman would have given birth, and a barren government would have nothing. And there's this one, and I don't know what it is, the newly-composed modesty in the services that say, "Oh, good thing that at least stopped the decline in resources." Ladies and gentlemen, it's not enough. The implementation of that decision, which was adopted virtually unanimously in the National Assembly, would also mean that things need to be compensated in return. The time when we all believed that common security, European policy and everything else would be a lasting source of stability, security and prosperity in the area. Regrettably, some people believed that they could abolish just one part of the European Union's legal system, open borders, and unfortunately the Slovenian government had done so and destroyed the Schengen. And the result is that there's been a threat. The result is that things have changed dramatically. As a result, Slovenia is no longer a safe island. Sadly, some events in the past weeks clearly testify to this. The changes in the European Union, including brexit, imply that Slovenia must undoubtedly be able to provide its own full security. It must be provided in the field of police, secret services, intelligence services, and must be capable in the field of the military. None of this has yet been realized. This makes it unnecessary to draw a conclusion that only blurs out and complicates what is now proposed in the text. It would be sufficient and necessary for the government to realise that decision in full and as soon as possible. Until then, we will abstain in the SDS vote on all these additional decisions, which only obscure the fact that the government does not do enough for the safety of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u186	Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, chairman. Privatisation and austerity measures have taken several years of life for Slovenian workers, as they can be picked up by terrorism at any time. In the case of these recommendations, it is a matter of increasing the repression of people and finances for this repression, while Slovenia is not in fact significantly threatened by terrorism. However, from the point of view of the regime's political parties, it is possible to understand the following. Neoliberal measures directly foster social misery that breeds social beliefs. Of course, the regime wants to control, control, and not least cut down after the repression to suppress them. In the United Left, we cannot support such exacerbation of repression. Even less, because it is a direct perverse lifting of power and strengthening of the repressive apparatus at a time when even the crisis provisions of the Public Finance Balance Act have not been abolished. If we need anything in this country, the focus is on development issues and social sub-systems, from education, infrastructure, health care and so on. But at least at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, of strengthening the Thank you. Repressive apparatus, excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u188	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u189	On the basis of the situation in the world and also on the basis of the situation in the Slovenian security and intelligence services in Nova Slovenije, we have assessed that these services need some serious reforms. And in these last days, there has been some movement. If you still remember the discussions months ago, government representatives, however, claimed that Slovenia is the most secure country in the world and that all legislation is appropriate and that our services work well. However, we have taken a step forward in the sense that even Minister Klemenčič and other ministries recognise that perhaps the current arrangements of our security and intelligence services are not so glamorous as to leave certain forces of foxes in the field of legislation. Although I may be disappointed that the conclusions we have proposed in New Slovenia have not been accepted by the coalition, at least this is a step forward that it has itself proposed a general conclusion in the sense that reform of these services is recommended. As these recommendations were usually rejected, you know, in the sense that all the recommendations were rejected and that the debate was ultimately empty. Today we will vote on at least one recommendation. But I think one thing is crucial, and I hope that here, when coalition Members have a lot of responsibilities right now, to at least listen to this part. The legislative branch of the authorities has now made a recommendation to the executive branch. We cannot recommend this to them, but we can recommend it. And you are most responsible for the implementation of this recommendation by the coalition Members. We, in the opposition, can recommend, and the government can take on all our recommendations with a little bit of excitement. You, the coalition MPs, have that power. If the government of what you have accepted in this National Assembly, what you have recommended to your government, what you have voted for, your governments do not realize it, then the moment has come to ask yourself whether it is still worth supporting this government because it ignores your recommendations. And that is what I think is at the heart of parliamentary democracy, that we Members have the greatest power just when we are talking about supporting individual governments. I want to, and I'm going to remind you of these things, that when they turn around one month, if there's nothing going to be done in this area, then it's time for you to do your thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u190	I ask first of all whether there is any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. No, no, no. So it's in his own name? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, we live at a time when security is no longer self-evident. Mr Robert Schuman once said: "We did not have Europe, but we had a war." Today, this Europe is almost written with a small beginning, because you know what I mean. And at least members of the Committee on Foreign Policy and of course also members, we have received a letter from our colleagues of Russian pride. I suggest you read it between the lines during the holidays. This letter was received by us, the Slovenian Parliament, as well as by the parliaments of the other Member States of the European Union. And we, as well as the other NATO members, received it from the parliaments of Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The threat is about some new cold war. Also read between the lines. I will vote in favour, unfortunately for only one recommendation, but it is crucial, and let this be a signal that we will be talking significantly more about the security of our citizens in Europe in the future. And, of course, talking won't be enough. Action will also be needed. Very specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u192	I'm asking you to sign up. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u193	I will vote in favour of the conclusion that the Slovenian security and intelligence services need to be reformed. Why? Because we live in a truly dangerous and unpredictable world. Even because of all the bad things that are happening around the world. Even social and economic issues have radicalised individual groups around the world. And another threat that we are facing in Europe, which will be further accelerated by all these threats, is now this banking crisis in Italy, which will also have a major impact on banks in Germany that have purchased Italian bonds. All of this can put us in some new spiral of danger. And as a Member of this National Assembly, I would like to do my part in doing everything necessary to provide our security and intelligence services with as many tools as possible so that our citizens can also be protected. If you look at what was happening in Brussels and Paris, I find it difficult to agree that such measures constitute additional repression against citizens. I would like these services to do everything they can to prevent them from committing crimes in Brussels, in France, and who may also be thinking about doing so in Slovenia, to do everything they can to prevent them, because in these cases it is not about democratic regulation, it is not about preventing democratic conflicts, it is about preventing crimes and crimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u194	We're voting. 74 Members and Members were present and 52 were voted against. [[There were 52 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal by the Act on the Complementation of the Act on the Succession of Agreements of the former Yugoslavia with the People's Republic of China, which remains in force between the Republic of Slovenia and the People's Republic of China. The proposal for an act was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the draft act, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary to the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I'm putting pressure on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u195	Dear Members and Members, distinguished guests! On 14 April 1972, the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and China signed an agreement between the governments of the SFRJ and the People’s Republic of China on civil air transport ratified by the Regulation published in the Official Journal of the SFRJ, No 51/73. The Act on the Succession of the Agreements of the former Yugoslavia with the People’s Republic of China, which is to remain in force between the Republic of Slovenia and the People’s Republic of China, was followed by five international treaties, and there was no such agreement. The available data do not show why that agreement was not listed. We assume that the reason why the agreement has not yet been registered with the International Civil Aviation Organisation during that period is in accordance with Article 83 of the Chicago Convention, which lays down the obligation to register international agreements. The People’s Republic of China is only 10. 8. In 2004 the agreement was registered with the International Civil Aviation Organisation, from which it can be concluded that the Chinese party considers the agreement to be valid. Since the Republic of Slovenia is one of the equal successors of the former common Republic, the validity of the agreement must also be duly completed and placed on the list of subsequent international treaties. That air transport agreement between the SFRY and China entered into force on 14 April 1972. It will be possible to carry out regular air transport between countries by means of a legal procedure resulting from an air agreement between the SFRY and China effective from the date of its signature. In view of the above, we propose that the Republic of Slovenia formally complete the procedure and adopt an act supplementing the Act of Succession of the Agreements of the former Yugoslavia with the People's Republic of China, which is to remain in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u196	The draft act was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an act. We're voting. There were 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against. [[There were 70 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the act has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for an act on the ratification of the Auxiliary Agreement between the European Union and its Member States on one side, Iceland on the other side and the Kingdom of Norway on the third side on the application of the Agreement between the United States of America on the other side, the European Union and its Member States on the other side, Iceland on the third side and the Kingdom of Norway on the fourth side. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I'm putting pressure on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u197	Dear Members and Members, distinguished guests! Day 10. Seven. 2009 The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted observations on the signing and provisional application of the air transport agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third party and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth part, and on the signing and provisional application of the subsidiary agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway, of the third part, on the application of the air transport agreement between the United States of America, of the other part, the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the other part. Those agreements were thus signed in Luxembourg and Oslo on 16 and 21 June 2011. However, its ratification is also necessary for the legal implementation of the signed international agreement. The signed subsidiary agreement lays down mutual rights, obligations and means of representation of interests within the so-called Joint Committee between the Member States of the European Union, the European Commission, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway. However, the Supplementary Agreement ensures that the bilateral nature of the air transport agreement between the European Community and the United States of America is maintained. In view of the above, we propose that the Republic of Slovenia also ratifys this agreement in accordance with the position already adopted on the signing of that agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u198	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the agreement on air traffic between the United States of America on one side, the European Union and its member states on the other side, Iceland on the third side and the Kingdom of Norway on the fourth side. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Klemno Potisk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u199	Dear Members and Members, guests! Day 10. Seven. 2009 The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the views on the signing and provisional application of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway, of the third part, and on the signing and provisional application of the Supplementary Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway, of the third part, on the application of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the other part, the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the other part. That Agreement was thus signed in Luxembourg and Oslo on 16 and 21 June 2011. However, its ratification is also necessary for the legal implementation of the signed international agreement. With the signed air transport agreement, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway acquired rights and obligations regarding the application of the air transport agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the United States of America, of the other part, signed on 25 and 30 April 2007. In view of the above, we propose that the Republic of Slovenia also ratifys the position already adopted in the signature of that agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u200	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is a proposal by the European Union and its member states to ratify the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement and the State of Israel on the other hand. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Klemno Potisk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u201	Dear Members and Members, distinguished guests! The representatives of the Member States of the European Union shall be 10. 6. In Luxembourg, the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement has been signed between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Israel, of the other part. The Agreement ensures the gradual establishment of a common airspace between the European Union and the State of Israel and identifies the recognition of traffic rights for air transport in or from any Member State of the European Union to or from the State of Israel. The Agreement further lays down the procedure for the authorisation of air carriers for the operation of air services between the territories, lays down the conditions for cancellation, refusal, suspension or restriction of licences and also provides for mutual recognition of the rules on the ability and nationality of the air carrier. The Agreement also allows investments to be made by European Union or Israel air carriers, allowing for majority ownership and or effective control over them. The Agreement also contains provisions on customs duties and charges, charges for airport users, lays down regulatory cooperation in the field of safety, civil aviation protection, provides for cooperation in the field of air traffic management with a view to extending the single European sky, ensures minimum respect for the rights of passengers and passenger personal data and provides for the establishment of a joint committee to oversee the implementation of the Agreement. The provisions of that Agreement will prevail over the existing provisions of bilateral air transport agreements between the Member States of the European Union and the State of Israel. Also above the air traffic agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the State of Israel. In view of the above, we propose that the Republic of Slovenia also ratifys this agreement in accordance with the position already adopted on the signing of that agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u202	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on funeral and burial activities. Since the Government had pointed out that the draft law was not harmonised due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, it had drafted the harmonisation amendment by 6, 11, 12, 19, 25c, 56, 58, 59, 60, 63 and 64, which was published on the e-club with the designation "new". Would you like to speak to the government's representative, Secretary of State, about the harmonisation amendment? He doesn't? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We discussed the bill yesterday. A report on this law was written on 1 July. By 5 p.m., it was the deadline for the amendments to be tabled. I note that neither the Government nor the coalition have tabled any amendments to this bill. Now the Government is coming with the harmonisation amendments to the 11 articles of the law, of which a large majority were able to be amended for the meeting of the National Assembly. Obviously, in this case, it is a diversion that has taken place in order for the Government to secure a third treatment of this law even in this session and not in the autumn. If more than a dozen articles are tabled and adopted, then this law cannot be considered at the third reading at this meeting but later. Given that you are very careful when opposition groups, in particular the SDS, are investing in the legislative process, that the services of the National Assembly are also very meticulous when dealing with the solutions of the law, that no one has warned in time that the law needs to be redrafted properly, and now a harmonisation amendment has been tabled to more than one fifth of the articles of the law. This is about inconsistencies and, I would say, speculation as to how to circumvent the legal, normal procedure in the National Assembly and to mislead the legislative process by essentially ending as a reduced procedure. Mr President, I propose that you pay attention to these matters, that you, your coalition members and also the government service at work are consistent. As this is how the debate is closed, other activities are thus limited. If the coalition and the Government had a serious will, at least some articles to which the amendments have been tabled by Nova Slovenije could be accepted or amended. Thus, some articles could already be repaired in the course of the second examination of the law in the National Assembly. I suggest that you respect some normal procedure to respect the way the National Assembly works without looking for shortcuts and ways to play the legislative process. That the paradox was even greater, the government came today to correct the harmonisation amendment. It's hard to say that it's some serious thought-out work, that it's some coordinated work in the coalition, and I warn you that this way of working for another consideration of the law is not acceptable because you've actually skipped one treatment and you're solving it with a backup scenario.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u204	I'm not saving anything. The fact is, the government warned me yesterday that the marriage was inconsistent. And after that, I'm doing what's supposed to be. This is a harmonisation amendment, which is first discussed and then adopted if accepted. And then we vote on the whole law. From this point of view, I do not see any problem, the only time that this matter could certainly be noticed by the Government. That's a fact. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u205	Mr President, look, the harmonisation amendment is intended to remedy changes or to amend the law if amendments that constitute internal imbalances or inconsistencies with other laws are adopted in the second reading at the plenary session of the National Assembly. However, if the second treatment is deliberately skipped, these are no longer harmonisation amendments, because all that is the subject of the harmonisation amendment should be amended in the ordinary procedure at second reading yesterday. And that didn't happen. Therefore, I tell you to afford some kind of manoeuvre using the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is not intended to do so. If amendments were adopted yesterday, which would mean some mistake, some change, some derogation, the harmonisation amendment is a logical consequence. However, since this has not happened, it is not a logical consequence, but it is a conscious decision of the government and the coalition to take a matter over the procedure in a way that is not foreseen. I suggest you don't let that happen again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u206	I have no further explanation. You are absolutely right, but I have to act on a procedural basis as it did in this case, because the harmonisation amendment was tabled and announced yesterday. Now I ask whether you want the word of a Member and Members. No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 44 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 21st session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
