ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 22nd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 2.30 p.m. to 7 p.m., Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik until 7 p.m., Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, mag. Tanja Zink, Mr. Joseph Horvat from 2.30 p.m. to 19 p.m., Luka Mesec and Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 11.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law establishing public, public and judicial review and accountability within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by 5,000 voters and voters. With regard to this proposal, the Law of the Committee on Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Jan Škobernet, for an additional explanation of the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished proposer! At its 26th meeting, the Committee on Justice considered the proposal for a law establishing the public, transparency and accountability in the judiciary, submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by 5,000 voters and voters. The Committee has already been informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Council of Justice, the Government, the Information Officer, the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, as well as the opinion of the Commission on anti-corruption. All opinions were rejected by the bill, although most of the members of the Committee agreed that the debate on the state of justice and the necessary reforms were necessary. The Committee also considered before the outset the proposal by Members Anja Bah Žibert, Eve Irgl and Dr Vinko Gorenak to make a public presentation of the draft law before its hearing on the working body, and the proposal was rejected by 5 votes in favour and 10 against. The meeting was held in accordance with the usual principle. In the introduction, the applicant presented an assessment of why the law was needed. The legislative and legal service has presented a very large 13-page opinion on what are the reasons why the law cannot be adopted. After that, in almost six hours of discussion, the drafter and the opposition Member presented their proposals mainly according to the points. In the light of all the opinions, both the Legislative and Legal Services, the Council of Justice, the Government, the Information Officer, the Lawyers' Chambers, the Anti-Corruption Commission, I have proposed to the Committee that it be decided that the law is not suitable for further consideration, which was also adopted by the Committee by a majority of votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u3	In order to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill to Mr Aleš Primac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u4	Nicely greeted! President, thank you so much for your word. The abuses of justice are the biggest problem of Slovenia, which has not been solved in the last 25 years and will have to be resolved, otherwise there will be no progress in any field. Until the alarming state of Slovenian justice is resolved, as Constitutional Judge Jan Zobest said, it will not be possible to do better in other areas. There will continue to be unpunished places in the economy, unheard-of corruption in health care, social injustices and so on. If justice does not work fairly, transparently, and professionally, one can steal unpunished, one can kill and the other is persecuted. We estimate that most judges and judges are good, fair and professional, but a minority who abuses its position throws a bad light at everything. The changes proposed for the public, transparency and accountability are therefore particularly in the interest of these good judges and judges, prosecutors and prosecutors, who, on the basis of our proposals, will be able to separate themselves from the bad and the bad. The Committee on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms – the Committee of 2014 has been drawing attention to abuses for the third year, and now, with the support of the 5,000 950 citizens and citizens, whom I sincerely thank on this occasion, we are giving you the opportunity to adopt a law that will significantly improve the situation in justice. Let us see some facts that show the state of Slovenian justice. Slovenia has the largest number of judges per population in the European Union, 44 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, the European Union average is around 21. Last year, 309 judges and judges were evaluated, all except 13 meeting the conditions for progress. Thus, in Slovenia we have estimated that 96% of judges and judges who earn progress in their work and only 4% who work so badly that they do not deserve progress. We pay for the judiciary the highest share of gross domestic product in the European Union, 0.5%. Most countries in the European Union spend more than half of their spending on justice. After the contract is implemented, Slovenia is 117th place according to World Bank data. According to confidence in justice, Slovenia is among the 28 members of the European Union in the 24th place, and only about 30% of the people trust justice. We have the second largest judicial backlogs in Europe, and only Portuguese is worse than the Slovenian judiciary. In Slovenia, the most human rights violations occur among all 47 members of the Council of Europe, according to the European Court of Human Rights. I could have listed it, but it's just a few stats. However, these statistics cover the pain, the loss of health, the broken families, and the destruction of lives caused by their abuses by corrupt judges. Dear Members and Members, can you live up to the role of the man who is guilty by the court, who has wrongly lost all the property that is unjustly imprisoned, seeking justice in courts for 20 years or more? Are you going to do something or are you going to wait for something like this to happen to you? Or maybe you're counting on your relationships and acquaintances and you don't think that can happen to you? Keep these questions before your eyes when deciding the law before you. You have the opportunity to improve justice and make it fairer. Please take this opportunity. Now I invite you to pay a minute of silence to all victims of abuses in justice in the time I have left. [[Break due to a request for a minute of silence]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u5	Mr Proposer, certainly what has been done in this assembly in the context of your time in which I did not intervene is not appropriate, does not belong and is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. That's why I'm going to give you a warning because you're the one who can do it. [[…]] Regardless of this, he misused the premises of this national assembly for a matter which, according to our rules, is the responsibility of the chairman or president of the National Assembly. The minimum that I should have done before is, of course, to agree with me that something like this is actually possible. If I needed the advice of others myself, I would call on the leaders of the parliamentary groups. This is not the way in which the debate in the National Assembly is discussed and the debate is not intended for commemorative things, so we have rules in the National Assembly to respect them. The debate was intended to explain your proposal, but it was not intended in any way for anyone to be able to do so within the debate – since we already had those rules, these rules have been violated in the National Assembly and we have regulated these rules in this mandate. The one who spends a minute of silence in the National Assembly is just the president. This is not appropriate in this way. Procedurally? Procedurally, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much. We did not know what the proposer was going to propose, but, however, the President, one thing must be said. The abuse of justice and the victim of justice is so much more difficult to count. Secondly, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow you to express all those sanctions which you may impose by way of rules of procedure but by Members. A messenger. The applicant is not a Member and you cannot give him a reminder. That's one thing. But this is what we do, look, exactly what's going on in justice; exactly what's going on in justice. I will interpret the rules in my own way, just as you are now, and I will give a warning – and what can anyone do to me. The same is true of the judges: I will condemn someone — what someone can do to me. That's not right. I suggest you consider this matter. Otherwise, your admonition has no weight, no weight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u7	Procedural Mr. Jan Škoberne.G
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. In an important part, I agree with Dr. Gorenak. For such violations of the rules of procedure in the National Assembly, Primec should take the removal measure from the Chamber, because in the National Assembly we will be at each meeting of the Committee, in each related presentation, faced with the abuse of the legislative procedure for personal promotions, for the same manipulations as we were involved in the introduction to this infringement. In view of the fact that the Rules of Procedure allow you to do so, I propose that you ensure that the work of the National Assembly continues smoothly and that you also clearly sanction the infringement in accordance with your powers; and I agree that it will not be a dilemma, as Mr Gorenak has said, and that you will give the motion for a removal measure from the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u9	First, I will read the part that makes it clear that I can also give a reminder. "A reminder may be given to an MEP or other participant at a meeting..." To the other participant in the meeting, Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure. Very clear. So to everyone who attends the sitting; and now we are in the sitting. Thus, this aspect is clear, of course, if there are such violations. I always anticipate the kindest sanctions, but not the worst, I've never removed anyone so far. The fact is, they should be admonished before someone is removed, a word taken away and so on. I think that what has been done has been done and will not interfere with any further progress and will not come to any wise result if we remove the representative of the voters who have proposed the law. That's not how it works. However, it is clear that this is not admissible, and I also understand that I have to take further care of these things, because – and for the first time, if this ever happens again, this first sanction is likely to be worse, but otherwise, if the Member does, it would also be clear. Procedurally — Who? They're both procedural. Procedural Dr. Franz Duck and then procedurally Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am pleased that the Rules of Procedure have finally entered into force for anyone other than Miha Kordiš and me. That is why my procedural proposal is to move forward, and I will be removed from this item on the agenda, because it will probably be some kind of theatre. I have five points I have to score on behalf of the United Left. We have problems in court, but that's probably not how we'll solve them. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u11	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert is also procedurally involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Chairman. You presented what was in the Rules of Procedure, but before that, a colleague who left the meeting said that the Rules of Procedure were always in force, but that was not the case. Yesterday you did not hold a meeting, but there was such a mockery or giggle that the work of the National Assembly almost stopped. But this by Members who know the rules of procedure very well and today call on people that because they may not have known some things, they should literally be removed from the meeting. Well, not just that! Such words are also heard, which then fly to all Members of Parliament; but when we have what cultural level in the National Assembly, there is no sanctions, no reminders. However, we will receive reminders from those who may sometimes say a word in a slightly different way, and in doing so we will keep the level of communication concerning the culture that is supposed to be in force in the National Assembly. I really don't see why some of you are tripping here and what you're afraid of. The proposaler was probably trying to present some problems in his own way, but apparently there are problems in the country, not just here, but elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u13	What is clear is that the rules in the National Assembly apply to everyone. The last two procedural proposals were more comments than anything else, but I think it is right that we stop doing this and continue the process as envisaged. But from what has been said so far, I have come to understand that we all understand that there are problems in justice. And here's the part, but it's substantive, which I think I can remind myself of as chairman. I therefore now give the floor to the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother labour body to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia initially pointed out a specific nomotechnic method at the time of its consideration of this material. This is a collection of new laws in the field of justice and the amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in Work, which sets out the public's data on the income and property status of officials, while the proposed amendments and additions cover very different areas. Otherwise, it must be acknowledged that the review of recent cases of legislative material may also be structured in the way it was used or used by law-makers when the proposed amendments interfere with very different legal areas, so I would like to point out above all that changes to the proposed solutions – i.e. individual solutions, not all – are already regulated in the system laws which are in place and some are already in the final stage of preparation. In the set of content that the proposer regulates and we have thoroughly examined, there are quite a few of these that we have been thinking about for a long time at the Ministry of Justice and we have had the solutions prepared before we received a bill from the proponents. Nevertheless, as we have said, we have also studied this proposal thoroughly. I am thinking in particular of the content relating to the increase in the public and transparency of the trial, the emphasis on the importance of separate opinions and the strengthening of the powers of the Council of Justice. So these are all the content that, in our view, require or require further attention. It therefore takes into account that some of the legislative changes proposed are already contained in the draft regulations that are in the final stage of preparation or are in professional coordination and have been in a more systematic manner – so all of these proposals have been systematically more appropriate, in our view – designed in cooperation with the building blocks of justice, thus taking into account all of this, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u15	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed candidate! Like everyone in this national assembly, I suppose, also the Social Democrats, we want justice, the principle of justice and fairness in this country to be exercised to the maximum extent possible and that all of us are doing our utmost together, to strengthen the justice system, to make it more independent and more responsible for citizens and citizens. I think there is no one in the country who would hide from the fact that there are problems on several sides in Slovenian justice and that we must take them seriously and responsibly. In this respect, with the intention of a proposaler who wishes to draw attention to the unresolved problems and also to the injustices that are taking place in our justice, it is possible to agree. At the same time, it is necessary to understand both the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, such as the opinion of the Government, the Council of Justice, the Bar Association, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and other important stakeholders, who have assessed that such legislation would not have the desired effect, but rather, rather, to the contrary, to reduce the standards of legal certainty and to jeopardise the principle of legal certainty. There are both methodological and substantive reasons for this. A law that interferes with five laws at the same time in its core interferes with clarity and transparency because it is one of the foundations of legal certainty. If laws are neither clear nor transparent, then it is difficult to imagine how they will serve the citizens and how they will serve the trained public who are obliged to deal with them. And if the issue put on the committee by the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is that it is possible to understand, through the content of this law, that it is a matter of direct pressure or interference with the independence of the judiciary, especially the courts, then of course it is the task of Members and Members to consider whether we will adopt such legislation or not. If I leave a long view on page 13 of the Legislative and Legal Service, why this law is not suitable for further consideration, I can focus on the very present presentation of the bill's proponent, which raised the notion that Slovenia is the biggest human rights violator in Europe and left behind both eccentric offenders, such as Russia and Turkey, where we face violations of the right to life on a daily basis, not to mention the issue of torture, illegal detention and so on. As you know, Slovenia is not far from these countries and is still using and using to manipulate in support of the law of statistics that speak of trial in an unreasonable period, which has been saved by the government of Janez Janša in important work through the Lukend programme, is unfair and unfair to justice as well as to citizens, as well as to the previous calls of this assembly and previous governments. Since the proposaler has a good purpose, but a bad solution, which may constitute an intervention in the independence of justice and the downsizing of the principle of legal certainty, we do not support and follow the decision of the Committee on Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u17	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u18	President-in-Office, honourable speakers, secretary-general, colleagues and colleagues! In our society, there must be something very wrong that citizens must choose their own signatures and make laws, and that is to say that laws relating to an area that should be the strongest foundation of justice in mature and democratic society. Of course, the public, transparency and accountability in the judiciary want us all, including the coalition, which has strongly rejected the bill tabled by the voters by saying that it is preparing a judicial reform, which, of course, includes quite a few of the proposals proposed by the voters. That's too bad. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that the Government's legislative proposals will not bring the promised comprehensive solutions, while the Law on measures to establish public, transparency and accountability in justice, despite some shortcomings, would certainly bring good solutions. But since there is not even enough will in the coalition to make a public presentation of opinions, the proposals of the voters, like the laws proposed by the opposition, will experience the same fate. For greater transparency in justice, a number of things are essential. One of these is a judgment containing a nominee statement of the composition of the Senate of the Court, the vote and any separate opinion which would establish a uniform practice, as is the case with the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Also photographing judges who judge on behalf of the people. Everything on behalf of the people is public. So why such opposition? We also welcome the proposals that the Judicial Service Act and the Public Prosecutor's Act attempt to impose civil liability on judges and state prosecutors in the event that they do their work on purpose or because of gross negligence and arbitrary conduct, or by violating human rights and fundamental freedoms, cause harm to third parties. For we know that our justice in the broader sense of the word is not capable of self-reflection. As long as the judges do not respond materially, the situation in justice will not change, and the confidence of citizens in this branch of power will remain with the sad 30%. Without radical changes that will contribute to better justice and a greater degree of confidence, unfortunately, it will not work. Such changes also require prior constitutional changes and changes, which will not only be at the declaration level but also at the implementation level ensure the accountability of judicial officials. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that responsibility in the highest functions of all judicial bodies is the most important. The decision of the Council of Justice must be transparent and accessible to the public. Their decisions must be clearly and in detail, and each member of the Council of Justice must bear full responsibility for each vote in each particular case. Let us just look at the composition of the Council of Justice, which proposes the appointment of judges to the Assembly of State. Most of them have judges, so judges actually appoint themselves through their proposed function in the Council of Justice, given the fact that the National Assembly of Judges appoints judges merely formally. We are also reminding you of something else in Novi Slovenija. It is true that judges can decide independently of each of the current authorities, but this independence must not mean their inviolability. That is why it is important to control the performance of their work. In our view, surveillance should include monitoring the timing of procedures and taking into account the low percentage of judgments falling at a higher level. For this reason, we should consider, for example, the trial age for judges before being appointed as a permanent term. And, of course, introduce an effective system of their advancement, so that only the best and most effective progress can be made. For now, 96% of the judges are making progress. Judging by this, our judiciary should work perfectly, without any backlogs, criminal judgments, or statutes of limitations. For all these reasons, the Members of New Slovenia supported the proposal tabled by the voters as suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u19	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u20	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The debate on the issue in the judiciary is still important for our young country. But the solutions show up in the third branch of power. Justice must ensure transparency and the reputation of the judiciary in the first place alone, and here are the biggest problems. We can point out that we see from research and comparable data across the European Union that the main problem in the judiciary is recruitment and promotion, and what foreign experts have repeatedly warned us that the second stage does not decide, but repeatedly brings matters back to decision-making at the first stage, which prolongs the proceedings and also leads to a stalemate. But the most pressing problem is the performance of the function of judge. The appearance of the judge is created through the entire work of the judge both in the work and in other activities. The problem in Slovenia according to the number of judges is also that some judges are assigned to other parts, but still maintain the function of judge. The function of the judge shall be to protect the judge for his decisions and shall have incompatibilities with other functions. Of course, there are some exceptions to what has been envisaged for those judges who are additionally educated or involved in education in college or for fellow judges. It is not meant, however, that judges educate for private organisations, for net profit and then those who are involved in these educations, at the same time their customers in proceedings and conflicts of interest and influence arise. That is why these matters need to be clarified as regards education, as regards arbitrators, as judges do, and here is the jurisdiction of the presiding officers of the courts to approve or not approve of this and to take care of the reputation of the court. This is best seen in the last days when we have the case of the election of the President of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Judges have proposed candidates, the Council of Justice disagrees with these, but does not explain why it disagrees. Nor does the Minister intervene and place responsibility on others. I have repeatedly pointed out the issue to the Mandate-Electorial Commission when the Council of Justice, on the proposal to elect a judge – the choice of the Council of Justice to understand each other, we do not choose, but only choose – to provide information on why we need a new judge, what is the number of judges in Slovenia, or we really need a new one, who can run, what qualities this judge has and what is comparable, which judges are still running and why they have not been elected. All this information exists. If anyone thinks this is about data not being made public, we can also close down and get to know what judges we have and who has been chosen on the basis of which quality and quantitative criteria, but so far we do not get to the table when deciding who we will choose. This is where the judges can do the most on their own. Legislation exists but is not implemented. However, jurisdiction is vested in those presiding officers of the courts who decide matters. We have given the Presidents the powers and responsibility of the Courts. These powers must begin to exercise and assume responsibility for the appearance of each individual judge in their court, for they are responsible for the appearance of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u21	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u22	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I have often felt that we are only talking about the judiciary today, even though we are talking about the law proposed by the proposer and applied practically to the whole of justice. The Justice Committee, where we have dealt with this law, has said that the law is not suitable for further consideration, but we did not just do so, with one swing of hand and quite smoothly. We have said that the law is not suitable for further consideration because its adoption was opposed by the Council of Justice, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government. The State Council has not even spoken of this law. They also referred to the Bar and the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Although we know and all agree that the purpose of the law is good, in the Modern Centre, we feel that it is not appropriate for further consideration, because we believe that, despite good purpose, the effect of this law can be, taking into account all the opinions we have received, exactly the opposite of what the applicants want to achieve. So it offers us some quick intervention into as many as five laws in the field of justice and also in the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. For this reason, because we believe that such a swift intervention, such an intervention, which changes as many as five laws, would not have achieved these effects, we feel that it is not possible to accept it. The changes, as announced by the Government today and at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, and more and more often, are on the way. I also share the view, like the Modern Centre Party, that there is still a lot of work to be done in the judiciary, and that there is still room for change. Of course, guilt is not admissible, it has to be corrected, it has to be excused for injustice sometimes, and I have no problem with it, but it is difficult to draw up laws in the field of justice and it needs to be approached thoughtfully and separately. Some law that would now, like the ZUJF, sweep and clean up all laws in the field of justice, is not appropriate, but, as it is said, we rely on the opinions of all the relevant bodies and institutions that have given their views on this in the National Assembly. We will continue to work in the National Assembly on laws aimed at remedying shortcomings in the judiciary, which the applicant has pointed out and which we also believe should be adopted, such as greater transparency and transparency, the public opinion, separate opinions, including the responsibility of the judges, as pointed out by the Council of Justice, and so on. However, we do not think that this law is appropriate, and we have also voted in this way at the meeting of the Committee on Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u23	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I usually come for this paperless pay phone or very few papers, and I have a lot today, and I'll tell you why. We therefore have before us a law that tries to regulate the situation in justice, or the most important part of the situation in justice, and this law is not an ordinary law; this law is a human law; that is, 5,000 voters and something proposes this law. The Committee has adopted, for the sake of the public, the view that this law, that is, this human law, is not suitable for further consideration, so we will oppose such a decision because we believe it is appropriate for further consideration. I could end up here, and let me keep this up. The coalition agreement, ladies and gentlemen, says that you will go through an open dialogue with civil society – its representative is there – to constructively involve all stakeholders in the preparation of individual rules – the people and the representative are there – and you said no. So you don't respect your own coalition contracts. What this people are proposing – I will now say the people for a basic reason, because this is a human law – the appointment of judges, the easier procedure. It further proposes the possibility of separate opinions, where we have a Senate, following the example of the Constitutional Court. It further proposes that the judiciary analyse the infringements of judges and that this influence their progress. It further proposes the possibility of recording and photographing judges, which virtually all European countries know. The substantive responsibility of the judges – Germans, for example, take 30% of the salary and pension to the judge if it is illegal. Furthermore, he proposes to move judges between lawyers with some transition period and not as soon as we do, that the judge is today a judge and tomorrow a lawyer. And, of course, public disclosure of the property of the judges. Now look, I did one analysis. Mrs Murgel has now spoken in support of all these solutions, both on the committee and today, and she has supported all these solutions, but they will not support the law. But they will save everything, only I listen to this story for the first time in 2009, when the LDS spoke like that, the second time I listen to it from 2012, 2013, when Mr. Zalar also spoke like that, later the other representatives, and today you speak, but tomorrow you will not be here, but someone else will. So, the situation will be the same. But let's go in order. I speak exceptionally – the time available to me, I will use it to tell you how the committee was doing. Look, the proponent has thousands of 321 lines of records in this document. So he worked so hard and explained each article. Sam's 599 lines, which means I've justified why individual opinions. Mrs Irgl 166, Mrs Dimic 130 lines, and we reasoned on why people are right. Mrs Murgel has 122 lines, half of which is procedural, and everything else agreed with the law, but voted against. Mrs Irena Kosnik Grošelj 18 lines procedurally, although I asked you to give an argument, but you did not. Mr. Dusan Radič 10 lines, but he was talking about how we're not going to buy 300 and more cameras to record in court. I thought he was on the Wall Wave and he was saying something, but he was really serious. And we're not talking about it, but we're talking about journalists being able to record. Well, it's all over. Mr Trček, 5 rows – technical warnings, Mrs Kotnik Popotat was upset that I should not say to the court who voted in favour of human law and who voted against – by the way, I said – and what happened then. Look, you voted on this law and you didn't have any arguments, because you didn't tell them. The most competent person, Mrs Murgel, has even said that she agrees, as now – but the vote is clear: 8 among you thinks that the law is not suitable for further consideration. What about the coalition agreement? So you lied to yourself. But, look, I believe the people in the next election will tell you that you're not fit to sit in these chairs where you're sitting today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u25	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, everyone! The proposal for a law on measures to establish public, transparency and accountability in the judiciary, which has been tabled in the legislative process by a group of voters and voters, refers to many areas in the judiciary and, in large part, to the work of judges. For example, they propose the introduction to the public of the results of the vote and separate opinions of judges, the requirement to comply with the first request for the appointment of a judge, the possibility of recording and photographing judges, and the establishment of a public record of judges who violate human rights. The proposal also provides for the introduction of compensation for the liability of judges and state prosecutors and public access to their assets. If the law were adopted, it would also prevent the immediate transfer of judges and prosecutors into the legal profession. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that greater transparency and efficiency must be ensured in our judicial system, but we do not support the proposed amendments to the laws. Let me briefly summarize our suggestions or the reasons for such a decision. With regard to this bill, we have received a number of negative opinions from practically all stakeholders and professions. An essential observation of the bill's proposal is an intervention in constitutionally protected rights. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has written down its comments on a proposal for a law which, by the way, interferes with the provisions of five laws in the field of justice on 13 pages. That's what she's telling herself. One of the important points of the Legislative and Legal Service is that the proposal does not respect the principle of the division of power, which is a principle that must be followed consistently when adopting laws. In view of the fact that most of the solutions proposed relate to the position of judges, the provisions or provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia which provide that judges who perform their functions shall be independent and bound by the Constitution and the law, that is to say the Constitution and the law. However, some of the solutions proposed would affect this constitutional right. With regard to the proposed law, we can say that it contains quite a few amendments and additions to the institutes which are already adequately regulated in the current legislation. So, for example, with the Court of Justice's ouster. The same can be said of the proposal for amendments regarding the management of the minutes. The legislation already in force allows electronic records to be kept, and it is also possible to record orders. On the other hand, some of the proposed amendments are already included in the proposals they are preparing at the Ministry of Justice. Thus they are preparing amendments to the Law on Judicial Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Courts, the Law on Judicial Service and the Order of Justice. Given the complexity of the matter, changes need to be approached on the basis of a preliminary careful analysis of the situation, so that systemic solutions are prepared that will not interfere with the constitutionally protected institutions and rights that I have already listed. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we expect that the Government will soon bring in well-prepared and professionally coordinated proposals for laws that will help improve the state of justice. In the Desus Group we will support the proposed conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u27	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. AND 6. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the joint introduction of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Act after a reduced procedure and on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Regulations after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 50 Members and Members with Mr Igor Zorčič, first-signed. In order to further explain the two bills, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The area of so-called twenty-five is relatively disorderly. These are mopeds, which somehow have the technical characteristics of mopeds that we know, which are registered, for which insurance is required, mandatory wearing a motorist helmet, and there is no known reason why this area has somehow remained unregulated. For these mopeds, to name them, it is known that the rear drivers do not need any paper, they do not need helmets, but it is also heard from the ground that these vehicles, which are often processed, are lifted by roadblocks and, I will say, these vehicles reach or even exceed the speeds of those vehicles which are registered and technically inspected and protected. It is precisely in order to ensure greater security that this area needs to be regulated. A legislative proposal on the regulation of this area was tabled by the New Slovenia Group in April this year. In the first hearing, he also received support from some coalition members, but because of the concerns of the Legal and Legislative Service, the adoption of the law would result in some constitutional consequences which would be contrary to the Constitution, the Coalition decided not to support this law and that it was trying to resolve the matter in a way that would satisfy those concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service. This is so that the matter is regulated in two laws, and we need to know that we have another law in the government today, which actually deals with this area, is the Drivers Act. In the marriage proposal or two proposals on the table, we regulate this area of twenty-five in such a way that they will have to be registered, protected, and also carried out a technical review, otherwise in accordance with the rules already in force, this is, for example, for a new vehicle four years from the purchase of a vehicle. Some exceptions are also added, which are twenty - five, i.e. those engines with a structurally limited speed of up to 25 kilometres per hour, still differ from other mopeds, i.e. those going 50 kilometers per hour, in order to be able to use either an approved motorcycle helmet or a bicycle helmet when using such 25 kilometres per hour. The legislative proposal therefore follows this objective to ensure greater safety for users of these vehicles, these mopeds, while at the same time increasing the traceability of these vehicles somehow. In the media, it was possible to read that such vehicles were supposed to be 20,000, in fact, there are no such records because they were not registered anywhere, and we do not even know how many such vehicles are being driven on our roads. In this regard, there are problems with thefts, difficult proof of ownership, as well as traceability of offences and offenders. Many people have already witnessed a heinous ride, such as one that was already a violation of a driver, and in fact could not act, could not even see the registration number because it did not have such a vehicle. The police, for example, have often observed such a crime, that the perpetrator simply could not be traced. The specificity of the law is also a broader definition of the bicycle, for example, by domestic bicycle. The wheel is now considered after the new bike, which has an auxiliary electric motor with a power of up to 250 watts, which helps the biker, is said to still be a classic wheel with a pedal, and this engine stops when the bike reaches a speed of 25 kilometers per hour. They're so-called fags. They already have that name abroad. Under our legislation, they'll be covered in the wheel frame. The law also regulates as a novelty the obligation to wear helmets until the age of 18. According to our assessment, this is an important contribution to greater transport safety. In recent history, we have also witnessed the accidents of bikers who did not have protective helmets. This restriction, introduced in the law, stipulates that wearing helmets is mandatory until the age of 18, but does not, of course, mean that those who are older are not desired to wear them. I think that we must be all examples primarily of young people wearing helmets, so to speak, by giving some emphasis to greater safety in transport, including on bicycles. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u29	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the Committee's reports, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u30	President, thank you for your word. Of course, nice greetings to Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 22nd session. 9. 2016 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act and the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act submitted by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Igor Zorčič to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. Mr Igor Zorčič, on behalf of the proposaler, presented the main solutions contained in both draft laws, on the same basis as today. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the proposals of the law was put forward by Mag. Andreja Kurent pointed out that some of their comments were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups to the two novelties of the laws, and pointed out that in the case of the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act, there remain some uncertainties as to the definition that would separate the bicycle from the moped. With regard to the novelty of the Road Traffic Rules Act, she added that this law still applies both the concept of bicycles and bicycles with auxiliary engines, although this concept is equivalent with the amendment. The president of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, also gave an opinion on the proposals of the law and stressed that the Commission supports both proposals of the law. He stressed that they support in particular the solution to classify bicycles with an auxiliary engine whose design speed is not more than 25 kilometres per hour, among mopeds and thus among vehicles for which registration is required and, as a consequence, the technical inspection and conclusion of the car liability insurance. In their view, this is essential, as such vehicles in practice are often removed from speed limits, thus reaching significantly higher speeds and thus pose a greater risk to road safety. He stressed that the Commission had also expressed its support for the proposed solution for mandatory use of the protective helmet for moped drivers and passengers, irrespective of the age limit. In the debate, a larger group of opposition Members stressed their opposition to the proposed content of the two novelties, as they felt they would not improve the distinction between bicycles with auxiliary engines and mopeds whose maximum design speed was not more than 25 kilometres per hour. With regard to the envisaged registration of mopeds, however, they considered that the proposed arrangements constituted administrative and financial obligations for the owners of these vehicles, which they purchased with the expected smaller volume of such obligations. Consequently, it was proposed by the NSI Group that a compulsory basic insurance be imposed for mopeds on the basis of which liability would be covered in the event of an accident, not of course the registration of these vehicles, but only the use of identification plates. In addition, they proposed an arrangement whereby bicycle drivers and passengers with auxiliary engines whose design characteristics do not allow speeds exceeding 25 kilometres per hour should use a protective helmet up to the age of 18. In particular, the proposaler stressed that, despite the concerns expressed by some opposition Members, it is possible to conclude that we are, on a basic basis, all seeking similar goals to be achieved with the novels under consideration, which were also sought by the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act introduced by the NSI Group in April this year. Regarding the clarity of the definition which was supposed to distinguish between bicycles with auxiliary motor and mopeds, he recalled that in his opinion in the proposal by the NSI Group's novelty, the legislative and legal service had pointed out exactly the contradiction of the use of the concept of bicycle with auxiliary engine, since the definition of such vehicle had not been specifically defined so far. However, as regards the different opinions concerning the envisaged classification of this type or between mopeds and thus between vehicles for which registration is required, he expressed the view that this solution is the only possible. The system does not know the concept of identification on the basis of which an identification plate could be issued, but can only be identified on the basis of registration. However, the envisaged regime for the use of helmets was based on the opinion of the Public Transport Safety Agency which advocates the use of helmets, since in the case of traffic accidents this is a tangible aid to mitigate the injury of participants. After discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to both proposals for the law to the SMC, Desus and SD groups, but did not adopt the amendments of the NSI Group of Members. In accordance with Article 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u31	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Motor Vehicles and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic Rules, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Igor Zorčič, following the basic objective of ensuring higher safety standards for drivers and passengers on bicycles, bicycles with auxiliary motors and mopeds whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, therefore the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act will provide greater control over the ownership of these vehicles, leading to a reduction in the number of infringements of road traffic regulations, facilitate the identification and traceability of offenders and reduce the number of places of such vehicles. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act changes the definition of a bicycle; for drivers and passengers on bicycles, the age requirement for the use of a protective bicycle helmet shall be increased from 14 to 18 years; for drivers and passengers on mopeds whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, and the use of a protective helmet shall be determined regardless of age. As a suitable protective helmet, on mopeds with a design speed not exceeding 25 kilometres per hour, the use of a bicycle protective helmet and an approved protective motoristic helmet shall be considered. Under the conditions for the participation of mopeds whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, a biking lane, biking lane or biking path shall be defined as the surface, where the surfaces are not or are not transportable, and may also be driven at the right edge of the steering wheel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u33	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the United Left Group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! After rejecting the previous amendment of the law, we were promised that the problem of bicycles with auxiliary motors with novels of three laws will be dealt with systematically and comprehensively, as we often hear, by the Government. In the United Left, we feel that the field of bicycles with auxiliary motors needs to be better regulated by law. These are bicycles with the same look as motorcycles that can reach speeds of up to 45 kilometers per hour, usually cheaper, and technically different only after an integrated electronic block that prevents acceleration over 25 kilometers. The block can be removed with a minor technical intervention and, of course, the wheel can reach a much higher speed than 25 kilometers per hour, with additional interventions into the exhaust system and gears even speeds up to and sometimes even over 90 kilometers per hour. However, as far as participation in transport is concerned, they are subject to the same rules as for bicycles; they may be driven by minors without a CPP test and without a safety helmet and without registration plates. The new NSI, which regulated the bike area in a relatively simple and user-friendly way, rejected the coalition with a standard pathetic excuse, quote, on "non-systematicity and non-integrity". Now we have a bad, complete and incomplete package of novels of two laws, a package called "lex Zorčič", according to the first-signed proposaler. Why the coalition did not make a comprehensive, systematic move, as they like to say, and propose a new legislation on vehicles, nobody knows; now we have heard that time is coming. It is also unclear why the government now supports these two laws if the matter is still non-systematic. The unfortunate proposal defines – listen – a bike with an auxiliary engine in a way that someone who buys a bike with an auxiliary engine must first graduate from law, not in Slovenia, before he can understand what he is buying. If the thing has an electric engine and pedal, it's a bike with an engine, if it only has an electric engine and not a pedal, it's a moped, if it has a petrol engine, whether it has a pedal or not, it's a moped. Motor bikes are subject to the same rules of road traffic as bicycles and mopeds with a speed limit of up to 25 kilometres are subject to specific rules which are the same as those applicable to bicycles and bicycles with an auxiliary engine. The helmet will be mandatory until the age of 18 also for bicycle drivers, which can prevent sustainable mobility projects such as urban bike rental, for example Ljubljana Bike(Lj). After 18 years, the use of a bicycle helmet with an auxiliary engine will no longer be mandatory, but it will be mandatory for mopeds, including those with a speed limit of 25 kilometres per hour. I guess if after what I read you, I asked you how to cook yotta, you wouldn't even know it. How a bicycle with an electric pedal auxiliary engine reduces head injuries compared to those without a pedal, but has exactly the same technical capacity, is probably only clear to the applicant or not. It's not a joke. That's how the law is. Compulsory registration, not identification, as was the original proposal, but a registration plate will cause discomfort to the inhabitants of the more remote places, which are already in one way or another deprived of speed limits of up to 25 km to registrations in some cases up to 50 km away; in short, two hours, taking into account road traffic regulations in one direction. In the United Left, in the previous amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, we strongly advocated its adoption, due to the political prestige of the coalition, particularly the CMC, that novelties had to fall. We have received, to say the least, a government squabble, the amendments tabled improve the matter and make a living. We will support the amendments, and in the event that they are adopted, including the law, or such a law from some basic responsibility to the National Assembly, to what we are doing here, to be somehow a legislative authority that is supposed to pass some laws, which, if they are not already improving the matter, at least they are not making them worse and they are not making them complicated until they are unconscious, of course we cannot support them. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u35	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for her mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u36	Good afternoon, fellow Members! A little while ago, however, I could also say by the example of the son of a well-known or Ljubljana mayor that the position of New Slovenia is the same as that of the previous position. As I said, it happens a few times, but this time New Slovenia could fully sign the position of the United Left. To begin with, what is the difference between the law of Ambassador Zorčič and the law proposed by Nova Slovenije has unfortunately been rejected. Zorčič's law foresees and introduces the registration of so-called twenty-fives, and we oppose this registration. In order to be very plastic and clear; according to the proposal made by Nova Slovenija, my neighbor, Janez Novak, from Upper Tuhinj, would take the twenty-five to nowhere, but would only take her documents and take them to Kamnik Administrative Unit, which is approximately 15, 16 kilometers away, would get an identification plate on this administrative unit, take it home and put it on this so-called twenty-five and the matter would be settled. This was a proposal from New Slovenia. However, according to the proposal of Mr Zorčič, Janez Novak from Upper Tuhinj will have to take this vehicle to Kamnik and further to Podgorje near Kamnik, where technical checks are carried out there, carry out the whole technical examination process, take the vehicle on the track, pay all the charges and, only after doing so, will this vehicle be registered and suitable for use. This is a significant difference between the proposal by Mr Zorčič and the proposal of New Slovenia. To get back to the beginning. Why did we actually deal with this problem? In Slovenia you have several different categories, if you want, definitions of vehicles that could be called engines. Before that, for example, you have a bicycle category, then you have bicycles with an auxiliary engine, mopeds and so on. If I focus solely on the category of bicycle with the auxiliary engine, these were vehicles which you could have driven with a bicycle examination, which you could have driven on the bicycle track and for which the helmet was not required. Many motor vehicle vendors have been found and approved by a number of mopeds to stop them from going more than 25 kilometres per hour and to enable citizens to use them as bicycles with an auxiliary engine. This has been useful for many young people to transport and travel around the city as well as for other users. Of course, this was also a problem. One of these was frauds to pick up roadblocks and get these vehicles out faster. There was damage because these vehicles were causing an accident and there were also serious injuries because helmets did not have to be used. What do we suggest? We have proposed that fraud should be pursued by setting up identification plates so that police could track down potential lawbreakers far away, we have proposed some compulsory insurance of up to 30 euros to cover damage in case of accidents and similar stories, and we have also proposed mandatory use of helmets until the age of 18. But as we have already heard today, the government coalition has rejected this proposal, which, as Member Trček said, was simple and simple. Today we have before us the so-called Zorčič Act, which will punish all citizens not only those who break the law, and such citizens are at least 20,000 and these 20,000 citizens will be punished by having additional costs and being subjected to additional bureaucracy, which is not good, so in the New Slovenia Group we will oppose Zorčič's law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u37	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u38	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are united in the fact that these amendments to the laws, the Motor Vehicles Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act are inadequate, meaningless and harmful to citizens. We are convinced that under the pretext of security, the budget is to be charged and the profits are to be forged for the technical checks and for the insurance companies as well. Does that make sense? No, no, no. We do not want to do this, and we certainly will not confirm these proposals. In the implementation of the Motor Vehicle Act itself, we see extremely serious problems in the countryside. Why? Because technical inspection operators are in the city, while users of these vehicles are also 25 and 30 kilometres away. You should just get there to perform a technical inspection of these vehicles — with poor road infrastructure, of course. This is precisely why, instead of increasing safety so that we are not exposed to roadside dangers, we get a completely different picture. Let me get on with it. It has been said so much in this direction that it is difficult to track down violators, that it is often extremely difficult to find stolen vehicles of this kind. On the basis of interviews with certain professionals, we were told that this was not the case at all. True police control can be effective in any case. As far as proof of ownership of the vehicle is concerned, even if the registration plate is, and even if it is not, it has, for example, a good proposal from New Slovenia, only an identification plate, for inadequately lower costs than in this case – it can be established that the owner wishing to prove ownership must provide the relevant documentation. And these are the facts. With regard to certain revenue for the budget, of course, we have reached the next calculation, according to available information, as well as from the media, on the basis of the intervention in the pockets of taxpayers, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of 20 or 25 thousand such vehicles, which will first come before the registration authorities or the process, it appears that around EUR 350 thousand would have revenue from the operators of the technical checks and around 260 000 – these are very indicative data, but based on information that exists – the budget. Nice. I think that safety in transport is not achieved and will never be achieved in this way, but by responsible behaviour of all actors in transport, prevention, awareness-raising and appropriate infrastructure. We feel that thinking in this direction is also necessary, and we are convinced that this is the right way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u39	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u40	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, all present, a nice greeting! The new Motor Vehicle Act and the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act were introduced by coalition parliamentary groups with one goal: to ensure higher cycle safety standards with engines or so-called mopeds and consequently all other road users. Today, these 25s can be driven by young drivers, the use of protective helmets is not mandatory, these mopeds do not need to be registered and are therefore virtually impossible to trace in case of offences. In order to make everything even more dangerous, in practice there is a significant number of infringements relating to the processing of these engines by users with a view to increasing speed in a way that removes built-in blockades to achieve a maximum speed of 25 kilometres per hour. The police also have major problems with these offenders, since there is no marking on the vehicle to trace the owner. We discussed this topic in the National Assembly just before summer, when it turned out that the proposed solutions were not properly placed in the existing legal order, which would leave serious implementation problems behind, so we prepared appropriate novelties with solutions that would solve these problems in practice in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. In this regard, it is important that the policy was uniform as regards the need to increase safety standards for the use of mopeds and road users, that mandatory use of the safety helmet by moped drivers should be introduced, that these vehicles should be properly identified and protected, and that these vehicles should also be technically sound. Obviously, however, politics is only uniform until it detects the possibility of obtaining political points on a case and this time, unfortunately, at the expense of transport security. Because today the debate will focus on two amendments that conceptually break the proposed changes. We all understand what these amendments are trying to show; they are populism trying to show that there is a significant difference between the identification card and the registration, when we are actually talking about the same thing. You know, because the identification plates wouldn't be free, as the amendment applicants say, we don't know today, and we don't have a license plate record, but we do have a registered vehicle record. The introduction of a new record with the existing system is uneconomic, which would most likely prove to be a significantly higher cost for the end user than when we try to integrate these vehicles into a system that already exists. The fact that users of this identification plate would cost nothing is simply a distortion of the truth and the setting up of accounts without the innkeeper. And where was it supposed to come from? From the budget! From the account of citizens and citizens, because we probably agree that just having a table is not enough, but that there is also a need to record user data in some system in order to ensure traceability. We will support the proposed solutions in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, because we know that in the short term we can provide better standards of road safety, and in the long term we will certainly contribute to the higher transport safety of the culture of all road users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u41	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u42	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act. These two laws regulate the status of a bicycle with an auxiliary motor. We will not support them because they are completely burdening citizens with new financial burdens and introducing new administrative procedures. Mr Igor Zorčič proposes to introduce a technical inspection, registration and insurance for a bicycle with an auxiliary engine whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. We believe that the proposaler went from one extreme to another. It is true that this area has not been regulated so far, but this is a transition to a different extreme — a bicycle with an auxiliary engine that has an average speed of about 15 kilometers per hour. In short, it's not a large and fast means of transport, but it's a bike with an auxiliary engine. Now, if we look financially, according to the source of the newspaper Finance, it costs to register a new bike from yesterday, or the first registration of such a bike of 46.34 euros, if we include a technical review and insurance is 80 euros for the bicycle owner with the auxiliary engine. If we multiply 20 thousand more owners of these bicycles, we get a new burden on these owners, say and write, for a million 600. A million 600 of these bikes will be paid to the state by the owners of the auxiliary engine under this law. Because this is an additional completely new burden, we do not support such proposals in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we will support the amendments of New Slovenia, which proposes the introduction of a registration plate. In short, it is a regulated registration system and that the insurance for bicycles with auxiliary engines is also concluded, which is significantly less burdensome for all owners of these bicycles, both financially and through procedures alone. We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party or in both laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u43	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honorable Secretary of State with a team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act and the novelties of the Road Traffic Rules Act are substantively linked, so we, like the other Members' groups, will present a common position. The creation of both proposals prompted a proposal for a second parliamentary group law that we have considered before parliamentary holidays, which, unfortunately, was not well thought out in spite of the proposal's good intentions. Therefore, in the coalition, we wanted to realize the good ideas of the then applicants in order to ensure greater safety in the use of auxiliary vehicles whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. The current legislation does not include bicycles with auxiliary engines whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, so it is not necessary to register them at the moment, nor is it compulsory to use helmets for drivers and passengers. In traffic there are increasing numbers of such vehicles which have built-in roadblocks so that the vehicle cannot develop speeds higher than 25 kilometres per hour. Unfortunately, the practice so far has shown that such vehicles are often removed from the speed limit, thus achieving significantly higher speeds. Since such vehicles did not have registration plates so far, they could not be traced at the time of the infringements, so these two bills classify these vehicles as mopeds. At the same time, a mandatory registration shall be introduced based on the evidence of ownership, the concluded insurance of car liability and the technical integrity of the vehicle. This means that the vehicle will have license plates, which will make it easier to identify these vehicles when possible. However, I would like to express my surprise at such a strong opposition to the two proposals of the law, in particular by an organisation that is expected to be aware of the importance of security equipment, the impact of greater control and that they want minors who most often use these mopeds to protect themselves from the frequent reckless driving. The easiest way to identify is through registration of a vehicle and the reference to social consequences is not in place, even if we know that such new scooters cost 500 euros further and registration of such mopeds should be between €80 and €150 if a certificate of conformity is to be obtained. In particular, I expect that New Slovenia, which has initiated these legislative changes, will support both draft laws if, of course, their first proposal was not just a manoeuvre to obtain media space. Our Group of Members will, of course, support both draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u45	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues! The new law before us, as has already been heard and said, regulates the status of a bicycle with an engine whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour and after the technological edge differs from the wheels with which they are currently equivalent after the letter of the law. The absence of a modern definition thus means that today, in particular, the younger road users, who by technical characteristics are more similar to a motorcycle than a bicycle, use a vehicle without ensuring appropriate safety standards, both in terms of behaviour and use in transport and in terms of technical suitability. In order to prevent dangerous use, the systematic impunity of offenders due to non-traceability, the non-use of safety helmets and, to the greatest extent possible technological manipulation, it is also necessary to enforce and update the definition of a bicycle with an engine that also meets agreed common European standards through the amendment of this law. As we assess that this law, in a comprehensive manner, together with the law that we will be considering in the next item of the agenda, achieves this, we will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u47	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended proposal for amendments to the Motor Vehicle Act have been tabled in the second reading, I conclude with a second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th meeting, in accordance with the time frame of the National Assembly. agenda items. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're going to continue with six. On the day-to-day basis, this is by way of defence a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on road traffic laws, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I've listened carefully to the explanations and I can't help but wonder if we're in the circus or if we're in a serious parliament. These arguments, which have now been presented in support of these two Zorčič Laws, are indeed attracted to hair. I don't really support this, these two laws. I think that the debate on the Committee has been very correct and consistent, and when the professional public and the ministry say that the request for a technical review has only come from a colleague of Zorčič and not from the professional services, the matter is quite clear. And when Desus says there won't be any extra burden, I really don't know if we fell off the moon. You talk about some new scooters all the time, about some new vehicles – does anyone wonder how many of these vehicles are already owned by our citizens? And all these citizens will have to take these vehicles to registration because of this law. You talked about 15 miles, 20 kilometers, that means 70, 80 kilometers. Will we also introduce a test board to take someone to the technical inspection with this vehicle? Have you forgotten that someone will have to load this vehicle onto another vehicle registered to take it to a technical inspection? Who's gonna pay for this? We are talking about old people who have these bikes with auxiliary engines, so that they can be transported more easily in villages, in settlements, not only in cities, not just in Ljubljana and elsewhere. I really don't understand my colleague Zorčič coming to the Ministry and demanding that this be incorporated into the law, even though this was not their professional proposal. For this reason, this law or both novelties are to be rejected. Moreover, fellow Members, who have been on the Committee, you have always stated that the proposal of colleague Tonin, although good, solves all that you say about security and everything, but it is not systematic and needs to be corrected in these laws. Then you come with repairs or repairs of two laws; and for you this is a system of things. Even in the SMC, you lie that Mr Tonin said that his proposal was practically free. It's never been like that. All the time there was a speech that identification will cost something, according to the household statement, but it will not require any additional logistics, because you all forget, these vehicles are already in traffic, not all new and will not be re-bought and registered by someone, but also those who already use them will have to register because of your stupidity. Ask yourself, ‘ What are you taking, if you are saving systemically, save so much systemically that it is right to be truly safe? ’ And you're talking about security, so there's going to be a technical inspection, and you're all saying that all these blocks can be removed. Oh, my God, come on! The technical inspection will also be carried out by those who intend to block out and, after technical blockade, will take him out. And what have you accomplished? Nothing. Cost to the user and nothing else. For all these reasons, it is unacceptable to let this law go through. I think my friend Zorčič definitely shot a goat with these suggestions. I'm against both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u49	Mr Igor Zorčič, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u50	I don't know you like that. So many bluffs and one deception that I've just heard, and not for a long time. First of all, about the technical checks. That's what the gentleman said at the working body meeting, if he doesn't know how it came, and I'll tell you; none of us asked for it. Nobody! No one asked for a technical inspection. The arrivals – please listen – come because the auxiliary bike is equal to the moped and has to be registered and comes by itself. Look, read your marriage, Comrade Krivec, it's time to read your marriage, and tell us where the coalition MPs wrote that it's a mandatory technical review. They didn't write that anywhere. Nowhere! That's only because it's equal to mopeds. As far as Tonin's marriage is concerned, I'll be speaking by name. Tonin's marriage is. Look, buddy Tonin, you said Zorčič's marriage was going to punish everyone. If you say that one law by which a vehicle should be technically inspected is punishing people, then you demanded this punishment in April when you proposed such a law. So write your "punishment" down! As far as the technical examination is concerned. Now you're all pointing out how someone's going to do a technical checkup. How does he do it for the tractor? Look, I've been talking to the Ministry, and if this is gonna be a problem, there's gonna be a technical inspection on the ground. But there is something we need to know; you say, we are not for technical inspection, but we are for some kind of insurance. What insurance company, people of God, is going to secure a vehicle that's not technically inspected? Which one? Is the Klump going to protect you? Please! No insurance company will do that. It'll be EUR 3,000 for the premium. He won't! And the technical inspection is not for the benefit of the people. It's for the benefit of the people. There's something else you need to know. 20,000 people will be technically inspected. Yeah, and a million and a half, you just pulled it out of your pocket so you couldn't. First of all, we don't even know how many of these vehicles there are because they're undetected. We don't know. Where are you, comrade Krivec, what did you go to count yesterday? Did you read it in the paper? Where did they get the information? 20 grand, that's from the eye. They could be, they could be gone. The second thing is, if there are 20,000 of them, the question is, how many under 4 years old are there? As you know, the first technical review has to be done after four years, as in the car, because it's the same. It's so full of deception on your part. The difference between Tonin's law and our coalition law is in fact only in this technical review. Comrade Tonin, you proposed insurance, you proposed helmets, look, it's all a citizen's expense if we look at it this way. No one's going to cover your vehicles for free, no one's going to do it to you unless it's technically flawless. So don't blind people here now that we've proposed something else. We did what I predicted in the preamble and what was then, according to the assessment of the position of the Legal and Legal Service: we divided this matter into two laws. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u51	Before I give the word forward, you will all come to the floor if you apply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, you will not be discussing this House. [[advertising from the hall]] Please! I'll give you a replica, no problem. Mr Daniel Krivec has the replica, which has been the only one to debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you. Good luck. Comrade Zorčič, the Ministry's statement was that this was your request. That's how you change with each other, look at the magnetogram. That way we're not fooling anyone around here. A technical review, see for yourself if it's a small cost to someone who's not close to a center. Insurance, too, Mr Tonin has suggested that anyone can already secure this vehicle without needing a technical review. Go to the insurance companies, see if you can find out. This matter is not as simple as you represent it. I believe that these vehicles, not 20,000, are close to 60 or 70,000. Take a look at how many of these vehicles there are in the villages and in other settlements. All these people will have to take these vehicles to a center because technical checks are not in every village because of your law. Now talk and compare with tractors, please don't talk nonsense! And that's why you're saying I'm upset. Of course I did! Because I'm aware of what we do with our decisions in real life. I've been a mayor for so long, and I've also been an MP, and I know what we're doing. That's why I'm so upset when she comes to the table, I'm gonna say it again, goatshit. Please, think about it!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u53	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to get upset. I'm not going to play upset either. I am a relatively young Member, and I have not yet been mayor, but I agree with the speaker before me that this is a goat. First, I will draw attention to two points in Mr Zorčič's argument, and then I will tell you how I was at the opening yesterday of an important philosophical symposium that takes place in Ljubljana these days, and how this is related to this. What insurance company? Look, we've got a whole bunch of devices in our apartment that I didn't take for a technical checkup. Second, because it's equal to mopeds automatosis. We also have to read the laws in substance. Now, if, if I were to do a lot of caricatures, the coffee mill was equal to E-25, would we take the coffee mill to a technical inspection? Yesterday I was at a symposium because we had a relatively early end to a rather boring day of regular sitting, even more boring than our interpretation, and we were talking about a lot of things, including, say, housing cooperatives of young people that we don't have yet, and I kind of went over to a debate about the work of this temple of democracy in conversation with my good friend Dr. Mirt Komel, who is also a playwright. I suggested that he take a magnetogram of the debates about these law-breakers and make it a tragic dramalette, which is actually, or a polygrass documentary, because we will be driving around with helmets and without helmets. Costs. At the last reading on the home work body, gentlemen from the department ministry also gave a good note of some of the costs that we are not aware of here. This law will probably be burned, it will go through, there will be a call for who will register, there will be something coming up, then one will complain, and it will take six months, a year, and there will also be costs in the state sector, that the people in the ministries will have to mess with it, and we will have somehow an additional complication of this stunt. Perhaps Mr Dolinšek in the SMC's position said something: it is not possible to register today. Maybe that's what we did to the finance minister, now new, asking where she'd find taxes, better taxes for the 50 million. Mrs Vraničar likes to use the word "tax proceeds" and here is really this beautiful etimology of prey, some kind of prey that someone will somehow pick up. Mr Hršak said that the law proposed by NSI was not pretentious enough. This marriage was supported, remember, I came from the hospital and then you started to exercise how this is not and then Mr. Brglez even made a mistake that the law was not adopted, was adopted, 34:33, NSI, supported by part of Desus, Mr. Gantar himself said that 40 years of motorist to support it, but in the midst of the Gantar line somehow did not prevail in Desus, which I find very surprising. In the case of young people, there are also elderly people, especially if they can afford it with poor pensions, these electric e-prefectures, nons, bulls, grandmothers and so on, some electoral body that you somehow want to represent. Legislation is not an imaginary file, the law must be conceived in this way.This law should be such that every kid who might buy Tonin a nephew for a bermo buys this brat to give him this law to read it, and that there's a kid there - of course he dares him to take off that block or he won't - that he has a little clarity and content of the law and why this law is needed and why the road is not a playground and the head is not a ball. [[…]] [[…]] It was some starting point that we somehow listened to here to sort out. Some infrastructure, no matter what the obstacles are, we are sitting here – probably the United Left and New Slovenia are the most different – but in some slightly more normal functioning parliament, we might even agree over time on the infrastructure, what the family can do, and this is arranged, but not some such matter, and then from some SMC Hita succeeds. Of the two, three people who understand this issue very well in Slovenia, the gentleman from the department of the Ministry came and then listened to it to explain how it was written, and he got lost somewhere in between, let alone us – going to watch a magnetogram of the session. He acknowledged, of course, because of the interests of the automotive industry and other industries, that this area is very standardised, perhaps even overly normal with the 500 cases he was referring to at the time. Instead of saving us, we get what? In fact, we will get some law that you will obviously burn, the SMC – and I will not now be Mr Zorčič, it is probably a lesson from this story that he will no longer want to sign under any other legal proposal – but this proposal is without any feeling for people, for everyday life and also for politics, for politics in this noble sense. Even if we let you get fewer votes on this account in Desus and not just in the SMC. If the SMC is the same as it is, and he is, and he's probably not going to change here, I'd kind of expect older coalition partners to take them to school a little bit. My friend Gantar, I'm really going to ask you something in the hallway where this reasonable line of his has been lost in trying to solve this problem. We are now talking about this during the week of mobility – probably because of this, too, there are so few of us here because others are painting with helmets, without helmets, up and down. This is a technical matter, the starting point was good, after all not Tonin nor I, including Mr Krivec, are not experts for these brats, experts came to New Slovenia, I know they also went to SMC. Somehow Nova Slovenija beat the SMC a little bit faster here, and then there was some sort of original pre-pubescent problem, if I put it that way. I know because I was kind of wondering in the hallways. I would like us to work – will work for the Evening Marko Radmilović Forced Mobile Maribor; forced mobility in Ljubljana, Austria, this is the reality of Maribor's mobility. This technical law should then be resolved as a short or urgent cookie. Sit down with stakeholders, take a look, resolve if, of course, someone who is not for politics learns what politics is, and deal with some of the much more serious challenges for Slovenia, and we make idiots out of ourselves here, I can't say anything else, with such stunts that complicate the matter to unconsciousness, they will represent some rather costly costs – perhaps not if we look over the optics of the Member's salary, but if we look across the optics of the citizen, the citizen, if we look across the optics growing interregional and within the regional differences. Here I would like to deal with legislation and with tax restructuring, how do we better buy these electric mopeds, I would like to deal with legislation that would hinder the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, because we have top-notch experts and innovators in the field of electric motors in Slovenia, but here I can talk myself, in Parliament, and a few people may wonder whether I somehow understand or not. Well, you're gonna take this rabble to the end. I mean, how will this mandate be known? This mandate will be known after a bag of surprises, which has received too many electoral votes, which will lead half of the laws or a third of the laws after a stick, a third of the laws will go to the Constitutional Court, we will introduce some other European directives into Slovenia's legal order, without anyone reading them carefully and considering what they mean and how we would benefit from them. This is a textbook example of how laws and legislation are not working – I will teach it in some of my subjects, and I hope that there will be someone else somewhere else, that this temple of democracy may in due course be warring politics in a pitiful sense, because otherwise we are one major traffic accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u55	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u56	Honorable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to say she's very insulting. She's quite varied. I think that even sometimes when we meet in the hallways, the debates are less intense, and I'm a little surprised today, because I think we're all reasonable in some way. In fact, I think we're all pursuing the same goal here. I'll say I'm not a biker, but I'm a skier, and I know very well that the helmet is already good for skiing. I'm not interested in any lady who's going to have to sacrifice her hair a little. She's probably going to be very grateful for putting a helmet on her head instead of a nice haircut and staying alive. That's a bit of an introduction. I would certainly like to respond to the criticism that we have accidentally flown from Mars to this Parliament. I am responsibly saying that we are working in the interest of the people, and especially if we look through the prism of this law, what is the main objective. When you read the news of the many accidents and of the young victims, I listened to a lot of pathetic debates, how much more will we blame us for, how many more will be dead, because the law will not be adopted quickly. It is precisely with this solution that we wanted to put this law into some legal order, in accordance with the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, so that it would not take months to come up with some amendments and new solutions that some resourceful individuals would be capable of faking this law, in some way they would find that these identification plates are not enough for some systematic monitoring, such as a violation. As far as insurance is concerned, I think that when we look at this whole package as a whole, let's look at a number of aspects that is the main objective – I follow, and the proponent is basically, we all find that we are virtually not different, that we all think the same thing as it is in the interest of the electorate. It is only a technical exercise that the system, for the first time, is legally sustainable, is also reliable over a long period of time, and that, of course, it will prevent some abuse of individuals, that this vehicle will also be technically reviewed and that experts will see that there are some systems here that allow some blockages to be possible to block them, in some way that will not be possible. So I would say here that in this way – I would like to stress once again that we are all essentially pursuing the same goal – to increase safety standards in road transport – and that, at the principle level, we have very similar proposals, it is only in technical implementation when our solution is such that it does not allow abuse and will also save a lot of lives in the long run. But let me ask you this: How much is life worth? You also read in newspapers, for example, only this year in the Koper Congregation of Victims. I don't want to use it as a pathetic speech, but every life is so precious that by means of a systemic solution, whether these are technical checks or whether insurance is here now, the solution must be so that there will be as few victims on the road as possible. I also do not support this aspect of the proposed deletion of Article 1, on the ground, as the practice of road safety so far shows the need for greater concern for bicycle drivers with an auxiliary engine of over 25 kilometres. Of course, we are also talking about the technical integrity that needs to be ensured due to greater accessibility and use, an increasingly important participant in transport, as well as more wheels with an auxiliary engine that is not technically flawless, appear on the ground. Thus, the injuries of drivers are also severe or even fatal when driving with a permit of 25 kilometers per hour, even in the event of the failure to use a protective helmet or, of course, if speed can be increased here, we can also see in the media up to 90 kilometers per hour. In practice, of course, more and more offenders are emerging, and there have also been considerable direct initiatives by citizens on the government's website to deal with the problems they face. I'm not going to say it right now in Ljubljana, even in the countryside, when someone in a walker is walking 50 kilometers between the pedestrians. In fact, as far as these tables are concerned, I will say that, of course, in the country, we have a vehicle registration system that is introduced, escaped, and this identification plate would be a cost, so it is in some way more reasonable to integrate it into a system, and also in terms of the speed of introducing this law into practice would be to introduce a new system for introducing these tables of additional public tendering, delaying procedures, and it could happen that this law could only be applied for another year because of problems that individuals or tenderers then exploit in some of their entrepreneurial interests. That is how I think I could speak, but I would like to conclude the debate in this direction that, in fact, as you have already determined, we are pursuing the same goal, in the interest of all of us, the comprehensive long-term protection of the users of these bicycles, of all citizens, of others, who are consequently the users of these motorcycles, causing others to do so. As far as the cost is concerned, I've heard a lot of numbers, such and other, unverified ones. I stress, however, that each cost is very reasonable and important if it prevents some victims from travelling and so on, especially young people. Of course, I also think that these costs in relation to these vehicles are lower and that these estimates, which have been reported in the media, are incorrect. But let us put security first for us, for all citizens, and let us not be a little jealous or nervous now. I think that this is a joint project of the entire opposition and coalition, some technical upgrade and the sense of placing this law in the legislative space and also in technical regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u58	We can have the same goal, but only the way to this same goal can be very different. You can reach Koroška on a 300 - km - long road or much shorter, and of course there are also very different costs. If you really believed what you say we have the same goal, why we are now overreacting here, you had a unique and beautiful option to simply support our marriage and to achieve something with a common goal. But you made up your mind then in the spring or in the summer, otherwise. Mr Dolinšek spoke earlier about the gathering of political points. If anyone picked them up, he picked them up. There was no need at the time for SMC to go along with the coalition, with the part of the coalition, because they were a reasonable part of this coalition, this law was broken because obviously SMC could not get over it, to survive the problem of being solved by the opposition party. If anything, then we are in this House to solve people's problems, and we have been approached by certain people who have had very specific problems, and we have translated these things into marriage. We are now discussing Article 1 which is very general – I mean, a general debate, but I will tell you what we have proposed in Article 1. We have proposed an amendment that deletes your definition of a bicycle with an auxiliary engine. Ambassador Zorčič said, "We never proposed a technical examination." But, look, colleague Zorčič, due to a change of definition, a technical review is being introduced. So, who introduced her? You. Because in the law you proposed, you change the definition of this bike by using an auxiliary engine and the vast majority of these bicycles will fall into the moped category, which requires registration. I make it very clear that the essential difference between your proposal and ours is that you are instituting registration, and we do not want registration. There's something else about costs. You are the one – Mr Dolinšek is a politician or a demagog who spoke as I said that our proposal would never have any cost. That's not true. Look at the debates, the magnetograms behind you. Now I'm going to be very correct, very precise. Where does our proposal and yours differ? Okay, we said there were problems in this area. With regard to helmets – okay, for greater safety, let us require the use of helmets. But you demand them all the time, we demand them until the age of 18. That's the difference between you and us. There is a reason why we have proposed this; because the Primors have warned us that they have been there for many years, decades, used to using these vehicles in such a way and that there should be a culture or whatever. We said, okay, by the age of 18, it's mandatory, and from there, everyone's responsible for their safety. Slavko Ivančič, who helped us to represent this law in Slovenia, said that these vehicles were used all the time without helmets, had a serious accident, barely survived, but henceforth recommended that everyone use this helmet. Of course, anyone who takes care of his safety will use his helmet, but we do not force anyone by law, but we force young people to make decisions. This is, say, one of those differences that you say is not there, but this is a concrete difference. The second difference between insurance – I must say here that we are about the same, there are no significant differences, just by this addition that Mr Zorčič speaks and who will insure you with this thing. They're already in the middle of some sort of insurance today, so it's possible to have insurance. Now there is a significant difference: according to our identification plate and your license plate. I have said a specific case several times before, and obviously I have to do it again, and this is where the essential costs come in. When Jasen Novak from Upper Tuhinj goes to the administrative unit Kamnik for an identification plate, he will be able to go there personally, of course he will also pay 15 euros for this identification plate, where the costs of such plates are moving, he will take this table home, he will put it on the engine and here it is for him as regards bureaucracy and administration, the cost and the procedure are completed. But the proposal you're putting in place means an annual cost. A vehicle over 4 years of age needs registration every year. Is that right? According to one of the, I will say, the operators of these technical checks said that the minimum cost for the technical inspection of this vehicle is €17. This cost will be after each year as this registration will have to be completed and renewed every year. But from here, the costs between you and us are increasing dramatically. Our proposal will cost the citizen only once, and that is 15 euros for the purchase of the plate, according to your case, he will have the same for the purchase of the plate and then for the registration every year. And you don't want to understand that. In this case you minimize, czech, what is this, because there are no major differences, but the flower was certainly Member Hršak. I think he's become a legend, you know, with that fight for the bank machine in our rooms. But I think with this statement he made today, if you read the magnetogram, Member Hršak will once again be famous. Did you hear what he said? He said that these costs are not worth it, something in the sense that it is pointless to refer to social differences and the social status of citizens. Is that right, Mr. Hršak? Is it true that 17 euros a year is not important for a pensioner? Interesting – the thesis of Desus! While your president is fighting for, as it is called, an increase in pension coordination, because, for example, my old mom's pension has increased by two pints of ice cream. For two pints of ice cream, her pension has increased, which is the great success of Karl Erjavac. When we say here, in another case, that a pensioner, in my home village of older ladies 70 years of age plus, will have to use such vehicles to drive from home to the field or on the lawn to sort things out. These pensioners – for them, it is not a problem of €17 per year. What success is this, Desus? Explain it to me, I'm very interested! This is an extremely interesting debate, when you can see, I think that Member Trček had a great debate in this sense, that all logic would fail when it comes to prestige. Member Hršak, read what you said. I think this statement will be famous, and it would be valid to use it more often when we talk about other things. About the number 20 grand. Look, these numbers weren't made up by us. That's what the media says. [[…]] Okay, well, if you say you don't trust the media, well, let's just leave it alone. Read the board's magnetogram, where Ministry officials said that they don't know what records they've recorded that there are 12 thousand of these vehicles, but that they're assessing that there are 20,000 of them. It was some sort of committee evaluation. Here I agree with Commissioner Krivec that this number can be 70, 80 000, especially because these vehicles in the countryside are much more than likely in cities, because these vehicles are used as "some kind of working machinery" for those who may not be transported around with tractors or other vehicles. I believe it's funny for a lot of people to think that in my village you're an older lady who puts on a route and sits on a vehicle like this and drives 5 kilometers away with a rope on her shoulder. And now you will tell these ladies to take these vehicles 20 kilometres away from my Upper Tuhinj to Podgorje to register and extend their registration every year and so on. The extension of registration – I even said little, the media wrote, say, the Finance Officer, that it would cost 26.5 euros. We talk about things like this! I would advise you, the wisest thing to do is if the coalition – that is, if the opposition, by means of the coalition in that first reading of our law, was so wise that we put him through the first reading, it would be best now, and also for Ambassador Zorčič and for Member Hršek and others, it would be the most elegant thing now to simply gather some coalition majority to agree on who will vote against this law and that this law will fall. Because you'll see what a revolt it will be if this law is passed. Because this law will touch a minimum of 20,000 people, but if you multiply it times 4 more family members, you get there close to 100,000. I don't think with all the problems you have or we have, it's worth the risk. Therefore, let's say that one step further would be that Member Zorčič would be pleased and that he would still have a feeling that he had done some work, I suggest that at least our amendment should be adopted by 1. an article referring to the fact that the definition does not change. If the definition of these wheels with the auxiliary engine does not change, of course all these vehicles will not fall into the moped category and registration will not be required. This is, say, one elegant solution you have. You say, as Member Ranc said, in terms of cooperation and the search for common goals – okay, the amendment of New Slovenia is supported, this definition is changed, so the registration of these vehicles does not take place, and the change you proposed to make is mandatory use of the helmet. I will not go there unless you accept our amendment to the third article proposing that the same helmet be used until the age of 18. I think there is still an option for an elegant way out, but the most unwise thing would be to insist with some stubbornness on these proposed solutions just to prove who has the majority in this house. It's known who has it, but sometimes use it wisely. To conclude this first part of my debate, however, I would only say one more thing, because there is also Ambassador Popot here. I remember it on the committee when we discussed and she said she agreed with my solutions, but that my solution was non-systematic, because – listen to this – we should enforce or change these solutions in three different laws, and I proposed these solutions only in one. This was a key reason at the time, since it was a non-systematic matter for all of this to be rejected. But look at the fragment, Ambassador Zorčič is signed under two laws, not under three, under two! But now two marriages are systemic? There's not one, and there's two of them? Interesting! One last thing, if you have read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service or representatives of mags carefully. Andrew Kurent, who was on the board, remember what she said? That there are certain uncertainties in the law regarding the definition itself which should have separated the bicycle from the moped and pointed out the need to examine the prescription of the definition provided for in the Regulation and that, since one of the arguments on the committee at that time was that what we were going to do was that this definition of this bike with the auxiliary engine was being transposed in one way or another from the European Regulation, the Legislative and Legal Service warned that this regulation had already been transposed and that what you now proposed introduced certain inconsistencies and uncertainties. Look, I'm not taking any credit because my marriage was rejected. But for the sake of the coalition, I think it is best to do what I have suggested; to accept the amendment that deletes your definition and to simply seize all of these stories that we have around it is that we will prescribe the use of the helmet. This could be a common conclusion. I hope you will gain so much wisdom to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Igor Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I need to respond to some claims. There was a talk first about some coalition Members, including Desus, I think there was something in our ranks that supported that first reading. I need to remind you all that we didn't have that opinion of the Legal and Legal Service back then. And the opinion that came to our table only after that first vote was the one that made us decide in the coalition to go to two marriages. With the fact that we need to know, because you mentioned earlier, you went two, not three, we have a third – I think today is in the government even – this is the Drivers Act. This maneuvering with two, three laws, I don't think it makes any sense. Comrade Tonin, I'd like to ask you a question. Now I don't really understand you. You told Mr Slavko Ivančič that he had fallen, that he did not have a helmet, but you do not support the helmet. I just can't understand it. So he fell without a helmet, had severe injuries, and you say he didn't need a helmet. Explain that. I don't understand. Maybe one of the viewers will understand. When you say that the difference between our marriage and your marriage is that you're proposing helmets by the age of 18, and we're bad, well, I'll say, we're proposing for all mandatory helmets, I'll ask you a question, and please answer that question. Is the life of a 19-year-old worth less than the life of an 18-year-old or a 17-year-old? We think that every life, even in Slovenia, because we are not in abundance, is worth it. And it is right that when it comes to some things, when it comes to the welfare of all, we do not expose ourselves to others, I will say, populist: yes, but now it is some new cost, but I do not know who will earn it all. In this part I play this reading of words to my colleague Hršku, who is completely out of place. We're talking about security; we're talking about coalition security, and you're talking about a pocket. Of course, we must be, I will say, bearable, and we must make sure that any adjustment to some new legal requirements will be as painless as possible for each pocket. We are also working on this, and I have been assured by the Ministry that they have actively cooperated in this law, that this will take place both with regard to technical inspections or the possibility of technical inspections on the ground, if this proves necessary, and the possibility of examining these costs, which may relate to technical checks, has also been mentioned. I believe the Ministry will study this and go the other way. But since we're wondering now whether 18 euros or life - look, I don't think it's a question at all! As far as these numbers are concerned with the laws of 10, 20 thousand, the ministry has said 12 thousand, as well as 20,000 — I have mentioned this many times today. We don't even know how many of these there are. Isn't that a problem? You have traffic, you have, I'll say, an increasing number of victims in traffic, and you have one huge number of participants, you don't even know how many of them, who owns these vehicles, who registered them, who didn't register them, who bought them, who's responsible for the offences committed by these vehicles – you don't know anything! Now you say that your proposal is great and saveable, but our proposal is very bad and incomplete, although I can say that it has been prepared or developed by experts at the Ministry of Infrastructure. You're saying we're proposing identification. Now, let's say this case, we support your identification proposal, some stickers, you said, right, I don't know, like stickers. [[advertising from the hall]] I don't know. What if they're not stickers? I think you even talked about stickers in the first marriage. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] And the Ministry of Infrastructure will call for a new contractor, for some new stickers See what we have here – Mirage again. [[…]] And what would be the first article? SMC again, reintroduces Mirage stickers and the like. Look, we're not up for this. We are for what already exists, and we think it's okay – these are license plates. Like on mopeds, they're going to be on these fives, which are visually more than not the same as mopeds. And that's the reason. But as for the technical checks, I've already explained. We have never put pressure on the ministry or anything, just as you said, because of the changes in these definitions or the equation of these bicycles with the auxiliary engine with mopeds there is also this obligation of technical review. We don't think it's a wrong decision, that it's a good decision, that it's right, even if 70,000 vehicles, as a fellow Krivec says on the road, are not technically inspected – well, please! I think they need to be examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u62	In some parts, Member Zorčič very misunderstood me. How does registration contribute to greater security, or when we compare registration and identification, what is this difference in the contribution to security? I called on Mr Hršk to say that it is not a problem that pensioners will have to pay 26.5 euros each year to extend such vehicles, that this is not a problem. That's how he discussed it. And I think it's a problem. I absolutely cannot agree with you that the registration of vehicles will contribute to greater safety. I can't agree with that. And now you're wearing helmets because you don't understand me in helmets. Today the use of helmets is optional, no one by law has to wear helmets in these wheels with an auxiliary engine, no one. We suggest that by the age of 18, this would be mandatory and, after the age of 18, optional; if you want, of course you can. However, I wanted to tell you that there are individuals who, even if not prescribed by law, will still use this helmet. And I gave you the case of Mr. Ivančič. I don't have such a big problem if you want to do it now for permanent use. I just want to tell you that in this solution I wanted to take into account certain living conditions. And the living conditions are that in Upper Tuhinj you will never convince those elderly ladies, aged 65, 75, 70 years, who drive these vehicles, that the lady will never wear a helmet because she has not worn a helmet for the rest of her life. And what? That now I will give her the law that a police officer will be waiting for them in Upper Tuhinj, because it is easier for the poor to hunt and punish small fish and write fines, those who have stolen millions, the few harder to wait in the middle of the village now, and any lady who arrives without a helmet will get a fine! No! No! That's not what I'm for! That is why we have proposed a solution that by the age of 18 it is mandatory, but that young people should be protected if you want, even if they are married, and once they are adults, they are responsible for their health. And those who put something on the safe side will use the helmet, whoever doesn't, but they won't. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u63	Three minutes, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u64	Then I'll finish the replica and report to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u65	Okay. Replica Mr. Daniel Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you. I was mentioned. Comrade Zorčič, you are now explaining that we have vehicles on the road that are not registered. If we continue to drive this logic of yours, I expect the following law, which will require all bikes to register, because these bikes also go faster than 25 kilometers per hour and we don't know how many are on the road. This logic, at least in my opinion, does not drink water.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Applicant, please, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u68	My friend Krivec, I really don't want the bikes to be registered. We'll never propose that. I hope that this will not come from the European Union either. My colleague Tonin, now speaking of older people and the use of these twenty-fives, we have gone to such lengths in marriage that they will not need a closed, black motorcycle helmet, but they will be able to have a bicycle helmet that is significantly more friendly to wear. I don't think your neighbor's gonna have any problems with her hair or anything if she wears that helmet, but she could use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. A mag came forward for the debate. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u70	Okay, the helmets are optional, there are nuances on the issue of helmets; you — all the time, we — until you are 18. And this thing doesn't even seem crucial and all-important to me right now. As I said, it is important for a local area, and therefore I think that we, as politicians in the search for some of the solutions that we write down in the law, should make these solutions as viable as possible, and also as certain living circumstances. But I estimate that my solution takes into account more of the circumstances of life than yours, also leaves people more freedom and leaves them free to choose. But let's just leave it. I would return to a registration or registration that we do not approve and oppose. You want to banalize this all the time in this sense, because you also proposed identification, because there are no essential differences, because what is this? [[...]] It's the same plate. Are there stickers or something? If you, Ambassador Zorčič, read our law, you would know that there were as many as three paragraphs in there that specifically prescribed these things, and it was written that the Minister prescribed all these details in the sub-laws. It would be logical, however, to use the same shape for these vehicles, i.e. bicycles with auxiliary engines or for twenty-fives, the same form, the same form of plates as license plates, with this difference in order for police officers to be able to determine far from the plate whether a vehicle can travel more than 25 kilometres or not, because they would also detect infringements. All the Minister should do is, in the case of the provider where the state orders registration plates for mopeds, just request, order plates that would be different colors, and these plates would name identification plates. And you don't want to understand that. This is one such purely technical difference. Another thing; our proposal for identification plates is a unique cost. You buy a plate and you set it up and you have it until you sell this vehicle. However, you are required to register, which means that when the vehicle is slightly older – and I am sure that a large majority of citizens have these vehicles so old that they will fall under the regime that requires registration each year – and then the cost of renewing and renewing the registration is EUR 26.5. And if we are, at least this part of Parliament claims to be socially sensitive, then we should pay little attention to these things and not impose something on citizens that is not necessary. All of us have found that the problem with these vehicles is that some are breaking the rules, some are taking out blockades and similar things, but there is no need to punish all citizens with a penalty of 26.5 euros, as much as the extension of registration. It would be enough to allow our officers to trace through identification plates those who violate the law that take out the blockades and process these vehicles. By allowing these vehicles to be identified, the police would also be able to do so. That was our common goal. Just that we've found a much shorter, much easier way to achieve this goal, and you've made this hugely complicated. Another problem where we thank God together. In the case of compulsory insurance of such vehicles, you have a number of cases where these vehicles cause damage and today this damage is virtually impossible to recover if two of them do not agree or can only recover it through a civil suit, which is very bad. And it is for the benefit of all; it is for the benefit of the user and those who have suffered damage to the vehicle – the media say today that these insurances start there from 20 euros forward – that these vehicles are insured, because then no head will get hurt if someone jumps into a bumper or pushes a car, beats a mirror and similar things. I understand you, you're the first to sign, you want this thing to go on and on, but believe me, maybe in two, three months or six years from now, you'll be reminded of what I told you today, that it would be much better to accept this amendment, which would draw this definition of yours and thus prevent the registration of such vehicles. We'd solve a lot of problems for everyone you're about to build.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Mr Zorčič, you are always talking about engines both in your position and in the debate. No! No! Today we are talking about a bike with an auxiliary engine, which you just want to place with your marriage proposal in the engine category. So we're here in the clear. Of course, as long as you succeed in this law with your majority domination, you introduce technical review, registration and insurance. But your proposal and your decision are not on a constructive basis, and I will ask you. How much of the vehicle accidents with the auxiliary engine were caused by the technical fault of the bicycle? I don't think there's a single percent. In a strong, strong majority, in these accidents, there is a human factor to blame. That is to say, this argument, when requested to take such a wheel to a technical inspection and register, does not have an expert basis and a basis. But it is true that the newly appointed minister will be very pleased that you will pull a million 600 out of your pocket if these owners are 20,000. Yeah, nice income. But what a cost for the owners, and you don't ask yourself that. Now there are two concrete examples from practice. I asked the Technical Centre that you will now receive these new 25s for a technical review. I told you what this technical examination would look like. Yeah, he says it's true, for the most part, those 25's are faster than 25 miles an hour. Did I tell you how to handle this? Yeah, he says you just give a little less gas. What's the lesson from this? Is this marriage beneficial or will the fool be made out of this marriage? It's a practice. Now for the second one, about the validity of this law. The law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. With the date of entry into force, this auxiliary engine, if not registered in the technical inspection, shall no longer be used. It is said that on the first technical inspection and registration you must load it on the trailer and take it to the technical centre. First registration. Can you imagine? Now let's leave those who are closer to and in the centers and so on. Can you imagine what we've done with this? Now, I would say, with your suggestions, Mr. Zorčič, I am very afraid. But I'm afraid and there's a great deal of fear that you're going to introduce a technical inspection of skis. The skier reaches speed with ease over 100 kilometers per hour. Do skis need a technical inspection? You are introducing a technical inspection for a bicycle with an auxiliary engine that reaches an average speed of 15 kilometres per hour. Now put these two things on a scale of some sort of reason or I'd say some healthy peasants, native minds. Give you two comparisons, and before you give, I'd say, inappropriate comparisons on safety. Put this security aspect in this segment here on the scale in comparison. I'm very afraid of your next suggestions. But I'm also surprised the Ministry will let such laws go through.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Ivan Replica have a word? [[advertising from the hall]] Then Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I must address some of the inaccuracies that I will not say anything worse and, of course, also the concerns expressed about the Desus party. First, I'd have as a replica of Daniel Krivec, who said I was in a position to say there was no cost. That is not true, I will read: “The registration of such a moped should be between €80 and €150 if it is necessary to obtain a certificate of conformity.” Daniel, you suggested, but you'd listen well, but if it's superficial, then don't give the replicas. That's one. I would have responded to my colleague, Duck, and he also has very great concerns about Desus, and I would recommend that he take care of the United Left. I read and I hear they have a lot of worries, a lot of work to do, how they're going to unite. Let him take care of his client and these problems to save them. Then it was said that there was a problem driving these vehicles for technical inspections. Of course it's true, but also for all mopeds, it's true that you have to get them there for the first time. That says it's not some new problem that hasn't happened before. The same goes for everyone. We have made it clear that we want to make order on this segment and that it is in the direction of ensuring the safety of all participants in this transport, which is what we are talking about. We are not thrilled that there are some costs, even in Tonin's proposal there were costs. He's throwing around 14 euros now, making them up somewhere, whether it's true or there's more, it's to be verified. Then my colleague Tonin also said that he was worried about the pensioners who were driving these engines or bicycles with the auxiliary engine. I have to say that I can't see them on the road, very little, I would say I can't remember at all. [[…]] I've been thinking about where I saw the pensioners driving with these guys. They're gone. They are not in Zasavje or Ljubljana. They ride a lot of bikes, that's actually true. He did not mention, however, that the problem is that these bikes are used to drive the youngest road users and we also see how they are driving, even though a few accidents are in this area. Here we want to do, so we want to make order, of course, and in this way to ensure the safety of these road users and, of course, traceability in the event of unwanted traffic accidents. Then my friend Tonin mentioned something to me. There's something I can tell you about the credibility of Matthew Tonin. Now, if we go back a little bit on the interpolation against Karl Erjavac, what he was saying there, I'd say it wasn't an interpolation, but someone pinched NSI, which was supposed to mean interpolation. And there was someone there who said that I wouldn't say what a statement there would be no worse word about Erjavce's two weekends that were gone. And then that accusation that Karel Erjavec is working for Croatian intelligence services, that the restoration of Ceramic tiles, the Erjavecs, will be one thing I'll be talking about. So much for the credibility of Matthew Tonin. With regard to the false care of Desus, for the pensioners, I must say that the only merit is that pensions are aligned, as far as they are concerned, because there are one rules, how much they can comply with, if you reach those conditions at all, and if you reach the conditions even after they can be reconciled, they increase. Someone can't just make it up, we want it more, but no, it can't. But now we have interrupted this fall, the negative level, when it hasn't been coordinated at all, or they've been falling very much, and this trend has been turned up, and believe me, it's only because of Desus and his intransigence in this coalition. If you are monitoring how we fight this, statements such as the Minister of Finance, all yes, this will not be an annual supplement – we do not have where to take it from, there would be no coordination, even though economic growth was what it was to allow. In short, there are huge problems here, but this is mainly because of Desus, only to Desus, that we have succeeded, and that is how we will do it in advance. All right, that's it for once, but if there's anything else, we'll do it next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Matthew Tonin. A replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u76	No, it's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u77	No, Mr. Krivec raised his hand, but now I don't know. Is that a replica? Well, then, here you go. Daniel Krivec, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Comrade Kršak, you may have misunderstood me. I said that you, when you talked about 80, 150, so minimised this cost that it was really surprising on my part, because Mr Tonin said in explanation that the vast majority of these bikes with the auxiliary engine are in use by older people who use it for their work tools, not only for theirs also in trade and so on. And 80 to 150 euros for these people already in use is not such a negligible cost, which I wanted to warn you about. Not to mention he's gonna have to buy a helmet now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u80	Member Hršak, you will obviously have to go to the countryside to see the many older ladies and gentlemen who use these vehicles. The registration cannot provide greater security. I think Ambassador Gnyard has taken these things very well. Look, if you look at the statistics I got from the police, where are the most traffic accidents where these vehicles are involved. Most of them are due to carelessness or excessive driving. And the registration of these reasons will definitely not end. And also those who are taking out the blockade, see if they have been able to take it out, will also put it back for technical inspection and will be technically registered, but it will not contribute to greater security, Member Hršak, and therefore my criticism has been quite justified on you, because you will impose an additional cost of EUR 26.5 per year on the pensioners you say you are fighting and you will destroy everything you are doing. However, this can be in the sense that since you have been in the governments of Desus, the pension has fallen by 16.5% in real terms, this is a concrete result that statistics have found and must be said several times. As for the famous Erjavec weekends, however, I was only coming out of public publications and I received an interview on one side where Erjavec claims that he inherited the weekend after his father and asked the author of this interview if he authorized the interview and said that he had, and on the other hand he was talking about the weekend he bought with his wife. So, obviously, there were two weekends. The one who was inherited and the one who bought it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mr. Ivan Hršak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u82	The replica is just that we didn't say anywhere or write that now, if this vehicle goes on a technical inspection, that if it blocks inside, blocking out, it's said they won't continue to do that. Of course you can. We didn't say we'd stop it. We said we'd keep it under control. This is said to take place in the first four years once for a technical review and then after four years for two years and not for one year, I think, after ten years for one year. But we did not claim anywhere that this would be if the vehicle went to a technical inspection, that they could not put the blockade out now, or that they would not do so further, but that their safety was at stake. They hurt themselves if they do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u83	Procedural mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u84	Madam President, I would really like to ask you if you could ask the Member of Hršak if he can say again exactly what he wanted to say now, because I did not understand him.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u85	Of course, that's not procedural. It's just that everyone talks the way they know and know. Of course, this is true of many. Thank you very much. I, of course, conclude that we have concluded the debate on Article 1. Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] So I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on amendments and amendments to the Aviation Act, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u86	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at its 22nd meeting, on 7 November. 9. 2016 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Aviation Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin, with a proposal for a short-term hearing. Within the time limit, two amendments of the NSI Group were tabled to Article 1 and to Article 2, which were subsequently withdrawn at the meeting of the Committee and replaced by proposals for amendments to Article 1 and a new Article 1a of the same Applicant. In a supplementary explanation, the representative of the applicant, Matthew Tonin, said that the main objective of the bill is to reduce administrative obstacles and thus simplify the procedures for obtaining all the required permits to carry out minor maintenance works and investments at public airports of national importance. He also pointed out that the bill provided for a fuse, namely that the maintenance works themselves at public airports should not affect any change in the category of the airport for which an appropriate authorisation was required. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that this service had examined the law from their point of view and that the comments had been corrected by amendments tabled by the NSI Group. Representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure Mr State Secretary Mag. Klemen Grebenšek said that the Government objects to the proposal that the Government agrees with the content of certain solutions in the proposal, but a comprehensive system approach is needed in several parts of the Aviation Act and not only in the work governing the conditions for the construction, reconstruction of airports and runways. Mr Verbic, President of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, said that the Commission does not support the bill's proposal, as most members have convinced the arguments of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Public Agency for Civil Aviation which oppose the proposed solutions, and points out that the draft law undermines the integrity of the already established system, which is problematic in terms of ensuring security. A representative of the Aviation Sector at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Alojz Krapež, explained that the article in the bill introduces only a partial solution which he considered unacceptable, since the construction of airport infrastructure is not comparable to the construction of the railway or road infrastructure to which the proposal refers. He agreed with his predecessor that the introduction of such solutions would put security risks in the already existing system. In the debate, members of a committee of opposition Members agreed that the proposal for a law on partial solutions or a solution to a particular problem which they considered to be useful at a given time. In favour of the proposed regulation, two important safeguards contained in the bill were highlighted. However, members of a coalition committee agreed that the applicant fully took into account the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, but expressed concerns about the proposed way of regulating the area, since in a particular case it was important spatial interventions that were not to be regulated in the manner proposed. Finally, they expressed their full support for the solutions proposed by representatives of the Government in the preparation of the amendment to the existing law, which is intended to regulate the area in its entirety. The Committee adopted, pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Aviation was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the Magi bill. Matthew Tonin's position on the proposal of his mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u88	Good day, Messengers and Messengers! This is another law that we have proposed in Novi Slovenija to solve specific problems and problems that arise across Slovenia. This law specifically concerns the field of aviation, airport management and operation and, in particular, introduces debarcation or simplification of procedures so that an airport can extend the airport route. Why the extension of the airport trail is important — because the length of the airport trail depends on how large the aircraft can land, and the size of the aircraft depends on how many passengers and how many tourists arrive in Slovenia. And if Slovenia is what we are working for in New Slovenia, a country that is betting on tourism that wants to build on tourism, then this Parliament should adopt all measures and laws that would make it as easy as possible for all stakeholders working in the field of tourism. But the situation is, unfortunately, different. When someone in Slovenia wants to do something or create something, it often seems that our bureaucratic system is set up in a way that first has to look for reasons why something cannot be done, instead of looking for solutions at the very beginning. We have proposed a new Aviation Act to facilitate the procedures necessary to carry out maintenance work at airports. Let us stress that a very similar regime also applies to the maintenance of rail and road infrastructure. So we don't find anything new, but we just want to apply similar standards that we have in this country today in the field of roads and railways, also in the field of aviation. The aim of the law is therefore to simplify the procedures for carrying out smaller works in the airport area and therefore to accelerate the start-up of investments. The proposed simplified procedure would significantly contribute to faster and, in particular, cheaper implementation of the necessary smaller investment works in the airport area. At the same time, the law also has security guards in place to prevent them from exploiting these provisions in the sense that they would build on an average basis, since the scope of the intervention that may be considered under this provision of the law should not be changed in the framework intended for the airport, nor should the level of the airport be changed. As part of maintenance works for public benefit, the bill could consider such construction as is necessary to increase existing facilities, new municipal infrastructure, roads and manipulative surfaces and airport routes, as well as reconstruction, dissipation, surveillance or other works on existing airport infrastructure facilities and facilities. However, the intervention must also meet the condition that it is intended to maintain and improve security and the capacity or efficiency of the airport. In addition, the intervention should not change the category of the airport. That's the key guard. The proposal follows the principle of non-requirement of investment procedures, the principle of cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness and the principle of efficient and safe operation of public transport infrastructure. The maintenance of the works for the public benefit of the novelty only includes less intensive operations which can only be carried out in the exclusive use area of the airport, without changing the category of the airport. Therefore, in Novi Slovenija we estimate that there are sufficient strict safeguards in the law to prevent such a law from being misused for general construction, but only for construction within the airport framework and in a way that does not increase the category of the airport. I wish that this would not be again one of the laws we have drawn up in opposition Novi Slovenije and will only be rejected by the coalition majority because it comes from the opposition. I would like the coalition to offer once a hand to the opposition, to bring a matter together, and that it is not a mere and prestigious question of who will actually break the law and who will be signed under it. As we say, in New Slovenia we will vote that this law continues its path in the parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. Klemen Grebenska, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u90	Dear Members and Members! At the Ministry of Infrastructure, we examined the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act, which was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Tonin to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law basically regulates the execution of maintenance works in the exclusive use area at public airports of State importance, with maintenance works constituting the construction of new facilities or the reconstruction of existing ones and aimed at maintaining or improving the safety capacity or efficiency of the airport. It also regulates simplified procedures for project documentation, agreement-building and declaration of completion of works. It also regulates interventions into facilities or facilities of other infrastructure or the construction of new infrastructure to be carried out under the supervision of the controller or the owner of the other infrastructure. The proposed amendments and additions have a substantive and structural impact on the entire area of the airports covered by the Aviation Act in Chapter 5 of Articles 85 to 115. This section of the Aviation Act is set out as a logical whole, defining the concept of airports themselves, following airport infrastructure and services at the airport, the use of airports, construction and reconstruction conditions, operating authorisation, airport recorder, air traffic barriers and environmental protection and complying with the regulations governing the construction of facilities. Article 88 specifies the airport structure for which a building permit and a usable permit are required under the rules governing the construction of buildings. On the basis of the completed procedure under the Construction Act, the investor, the owner or the operator of the airport shall apply to the Agency for the issue of an operating licence. The proposed amendments and additions provide for the suspension of part of the procedure relating to the Construction Act. The proposal should be further examined in particular with regard to the impact on air safety and in line with the applicable building arrangements and should be complemented appropriately by the definition of the airport of State importance, other infrastructure and interventions. For this reason, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment of the Law on Aviation at this stage, but will examine the proposed amendment to Article 97a in depth as part of the comprehensive amendment of the Law on Aviation already in preparation and will be sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible and then to the regular procedure for the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u92	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representative of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! When someone in Slovenia wants to do something or create something, it often seems that our bureaucratic system is set up in a way that first has to look for reasons why something cannot be done. In New Slovenia, we are trying to reverse the way of thinking by first looking for ways to do something and make it happen. We have therefore proposed a new Aviation Act to facilitate the progress of the procedures necessary to carry out maintenance work at airports. Let me stress that a very similar regime also applies to maintenance works for public benefit in the field of rail and road infrastructure, and it would therefore make sense to introduce the legal regime governing the simplification of maintenance procedures into legislation governing airport infrastructure. The aim of the law is to simplify the procedures for carrying out smaller works in the airport area and to make investments faster. The proposed simplified procedure would significantly contribute to faster and cheaper implementation of the necessary smaller investments in the airport area, while meeting all the requirements of airport infrastructure security with integrated fuses. The measures could only be taken in the exclusive use area of the airport. It would also be limited to the extent of the intervention that could still be considered under the definition of maintenance works in the public interest and could consequently be used for a simplified procedure. Public service works could include, in accordance with the proposal of the law, such construction as is necessary to increase existing facilities, new municipal infrastructure, roads and manipulative surfaces and airport routes, and reconstruction, dissipation, surveillance or other works on existing airport infrastructure facilities and facilities. However, the intervention must also meet the condition that it is intended to maintain and improve the safety and capacity of or to operate the airport more effectively. In addition, the intervention should not change the category of the airport. The proposal follows the principle of non-requirement of investment procedures, the principle of cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness and the principle of efficient and safe operation of public transport infrastructure. The maintenance works for the public benefit of the novelty only include less intensive interventions which can only be carried out in the exclusive use area of the airport and do not change the category of the airport. Therefore, the proposal for a law, in our firm belief, also follows the principle of proportionality. In Novi Slovenija we will of course support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojan Krajnc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The present amendment to the Aviation Act concerns the execution of maintenance works at public airports of State importance. While in principle we support the intention of the modern centre Party Group to regulate this area so that maintenance works at airports can be done more effectively, particular attention should be paid in the design of the changes, so that the integrity of the system is not compromised and consequently does not diminish security, as pointed out by the Government, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Public Agency for Civil Aviation. The Ministry of Infrastructure thus ensures that it is already preparing a comprehensive amendment to the Aviation Act. To this end, a Commission has already been appointed to carry out a comprehensive revision of the Aviation Act, which will examine, inter alia, the impact of the new arrangements for the implementation of maintenance works on the provision of air safety in the area of exclusive use of public airports of State importance and on the current arrangements for the construction of buildings. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we will support the conclusion that the present novelties of the Aviation Act are not suitable for further consideration. However, it should also be recalled that in order to ensure the conditions for the successful operation of Portorož Airport, at the 20th regular meeting of the National Assembly, we adopted the amendment to the Aviation Act relating to State aid. By amending Article 158 of the Law, we enabled Portorož airport to subsidise its operations in accordance with State aid rules. In addition, the Agency for Civil Aviation for Portorož confirmed the security assessment, which allows for larger aircraft to land at the airport. The active work towards improving the employment conditions of all three Slovenian public airports, both Ljubljana and Maribor and Puerto Rico, and thus for the development of tourism is also reflected in the fact that state spatial plans for all three airports are already in preparation, with the longest public procedure for Portorož Airport.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u96	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Aviation Act, which adds an article to the proposal for the regulation of maintenance works at airports. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we always aim to ensure that the laws or bureaucratic problems that certain segments or nationals and citizens have, of course, to correct themselves with amendments or to add new ones to the laws. In this case, the long-standing need of this environment, this airport, is to add or extend this path. We therefore welcome the proposal by the proposer to allow these things to be made possible by this law. It is also fair for us that the applicant respected and, with the annexes, added all the comments of the Legal and Legal Services and that in this law, he also proposes to the guardians that the law will not apply in general, flat-rate, but that it will apply specifically to this airport. Since in the Slovenian Democratic Party the goal is for us to develop in the field of economy, tourism, Slovenia, we will add all our votes in our parliamentary group in order for this aviation law to go into further procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, let me point out that, in our Group of Members, we are not united in support of the decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The fact is that we see both the arguments for supporting the bill and the arguments that make us not support the law. Let me first list the arguments for supporting the bill. It is no secret that the draft law is primarily intended for Portorož Airport, which is by no means out of red numbers. At the airport, they believe that the extension of the runway and the construction of some support facilities will help them improve their operations and increase the number of passengers. We also need to attach to those who believe that placing objects in space and building them in our country is still too bureaucraticly complicated and therefore long-lasting. The national location plan, which would allow for the construction of the runway, has been going on for several years. The municipality of Piran announced that the municipal spatial plan in this mandate does not intend to change, which means that there is absolutely no indication that Portorož will be able to reach the extended route in a short time. However, the facts that show that the proposal for a law is not suitable for support are as follows. Air infrastructure is not comparable to rail and road infrastructure, so reference to this is not appropriate. The adoption of this proposal would undermine the order of procedures in the context of obtaining a business permit, which would lead to additional security problems. We were informed by representatives of the Ministry of Labour that the State Spatial Plans for Maribor, Ljubljana and Portorož are in preparation, which should take into account the desire to expand airport infrastructure. Before the parliamentary holidays, we have adopted a new Aviation Act allowing the airport of Maribor and Portorož to grant state aid precisely for the purpose of making it easier for them to operate. At the same time, we must be aware that in the case of the adoption of the proposal, the provisions will not only apply to Portorož Airport but to all our airports. As we see in the bill both the reasons for and against the support of the bill, in our parliamentary group, as I have already announced, we will not vote unitedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! The proposed amendment of the law by NSI allows for public service maintenance work to be carried out at airports of State importance. That's how they write it down. Who would have thought that today at airports it is forbidden to carry out maintenance works in public interest, which of course is not true. The essence of the law is not to allow maintenance works, but to establish a circuit around the procedures needed for the construction of new facilities at a particular airport. Proposers in the amendment of the law define the maintenance work very broad, which can mean virtually anything at the time of skillful justification. Which operator would build something that is not intended to improve capacity or to operate the airport more efficiently? The benefit of this law would be to the private owner and investor of the airport, so-called State importance. We privatized the airport first because you remember. Now the new owners would also be allowed shortcuts to the construction of the buildings. We didn't do this for state airports before. The standard excuse, czech, we only sold the management, not the land where the airports stand, is practically empty. The German Fraport has a 40-year building right for most of the land on which the infrastructure of Brnik is situated and therefore does not pay almost nothing.The preliminary amendment to the law adopted before parliamentary holidays introduced the possibility that the State and the local community, in the form of a public-private partnership, would ensure the operation of the public airport to the extent and in the manner necessary to ensure public interest. In this way, the private airport operators were also able to make more profits. The discussion at the home work body showed that the amendment was written for the purposes of Portorož Airport. This is the last airport for which, due to the ownership of the municipality of Piran and the ownership of public and state-owned enterprises, it can still be said that it is partly public property. But he's also the Portorož Airport on the privatisation list. One of the interested parties to his purchase stated in connection with his privatisation that he was aware that he could not expect high returns from the airport. The previous novel by Minister Gasperšič provides him with higher returns in the form of a public-private partnership, and the current one would add excessively free hands to the construction of an airport located in the immediate vicinity of the Sečovlje Soline Landscape Park. The proposed novel does not follow the public interest, follows the private interest of the owner or owners of the privatised airports. The Aviation Act, together with the Construction of Buildings Act and other legal and sub-legislative acts, already provides for a way to build and maintain facilities at airports, and there is no need to amend this with some vague amendments to the Aviation Act. Therefore, in the United Left, we feel that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u101	We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR THE THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE SLOVENIAN STATE HOLDING LAW IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE Regular PROCEDURE The draft law was submitted for consideration by a group of four Members and Members with the first signed mag. Alenko Bratusek. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice President! The proposal for amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which you have today on the table, was prepared in the Alliance. In the first reading, the law received so-called unanimous support, from left to right, no one was abstaining and no one was against, so to speak, we all agreed that certain things needed to be changed. What exactly did we want to do with these changes? Three key things. First time. The ownership of companies buying our assets must be clear. I don't know why it's so hard to understand, but we don't agree that it could happen that the so-called tycoons whose sins have been paid by people, 5 billion have cost them, these companies can simply buy back because today we don't know who the owners of our silver, gold or whatever you want are buying. According to some information we have, that's exactly what's going on. At SDH and even more at the Weak Bank, the tycoons who were being rehabilitated by the people were supposed to buy these companies back. I think that's absolutely unacceptable. Second thing. At the request of the National Assembly, Members should receive all information on the operation of SDH which we wish or require. No, no, no. You didn't agree to that either. I don't know what you're hiding, and I don't know, I can hardly understand what's hurting you, so that the Members know. The third point concerns the discharge of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. In the legal country where ethics would be, the morals and honesty of something everyday, these proposed changes that I have listed would probably not be necessary. What is happening today in the Slovenian state holding company calls even after it has been abolished and not only after minor changes to the law. With the state property, mixing as with potatoes and all of this is the fault of the coalition, even if it is a lot of misdirection of the part of the coalition, how they fight for the transparency and regularity of the Slovenian State Holding. From selling businesses to postal collectors that you don't even know who the owners are, to recruiting people from the times when our banks were the most stolen. These are the facts. And because you are not acting, we simply had to make a change in the law, which would at least for force strengthen control over the work of the Slovenian State Holding. Of course it is up to you, dear coalition, to decide whether you are in favour of the transparent and fair functioning of the Slovenian state holding company or you are more comfortable fishing in mud because they are state-owned companies, ATMs where you are powered. Today you have a chance to show which side you're going to stand on. In view of the comments made in the second reading, we have drafted an amendment in our parliamentary group setting out precisely the procedure for replacing the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding. In short, the arguments of SMC, Desus and SD, which were on the table in the second reading, are a dead letter on paper because with the amendment that has been tabled, practically everything has been resolved. And again. If you want our assets to be managed in a transparent, fair and transparent manner, you will today support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Miranda Groff Ferjančič, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The system of corporate governance of state-owned companies, laid down by the Slovenian State Holding Act, was finally established in 2015 by the appointment of the SDH Supervisory Board and by the adoption of key management acts, strategy and annual management plan. In this way, Slovenia has complied with all the OECD's accession recommendations and the European Commission's recommendations in the context of the macroeconomic balance procedure. For the first time, Slovenia has a modern and internationally comparable management system based on expertise. The National Assembly has an important role to play in this system as it adopts a governance strategy that SDH sets management objectives and the Government, as a assembly, monitors the fulfilment of these objectives by the prescribed criteria. Failure to fulfil the tasks set out in the Strategy is one of the reasons why members of the Supervisory Board are called back. The National Assembly, the Government and SDH are in a system of corporate governance of state-owned companies in a related relationship, respecting and respecting the competences of individual entities, as provided for by the Slovenian State Holding Act. On 12 May 2016, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a negative position on the proposed amendment and, on the basis of professional arguments, adopted a negative position. The Government's opinion was also followed by warnings by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Although most disputed solutions have not been adopted in the legislative process, the proposal for an amendment remained a provision relating to the recall of SDH members. The Government has not changed its opinion on this provision. The proposal to invite members of the Supervisory Board to propose the National Assembly is non-systematic in terms of the concept of the implementation of the SDH Act, the OECD Guidelines and the corporate management of state-owned companies, the fundamental element of which is the principle of independence or non-involvement of state-owned companies or policies in the day-to-day management of state-owned companies. By granting such powers to the National Assembly, there is a risk of frequent initiatives for the discharge of the SDH Supervisory Board members, which could jeopardise the strength of the composition and independence of the Supervisory Board. As a result, such an arrangement could undermine corporate governance and control over the operation of the entire SDH. It may also be established that SDH will not be able to take decisions and thus implement management entitlements in state-owned enterprises. Finally, I would like to point out the European Commission's warning from this year's report on Slovenia, which says: "It is crucial that SDH works independently of political pressure." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Bozič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u106	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Representatives of the ministries! As regards the position of the SMC Group, we are aware of the importance of managing state property in accordance with modern corporate governance standards. We are also aware of the role that policy must play in order for our common state assets to be managed efficiently and transparently. The left share of the guidelines and rules related to the operation of the Slovenian State holding company, as well as other structures in the country which must take care of the common assets, shall be adopted through the legislative procedure in this house. As one of the important contributions of our mandate towards transparent and efficient management of this property, the capital investment management strategy has certainly been. With this document, we have made clear what is of strategic importance for the country and will help guide the country's economic policy over the next 20, 50, 100 years. We have identified important companies with special attention due to their role in the economy and society, as well as those that pursue only narrower returns in the investment portfolio of the countries. For the latter, it is important that, in the case of sales, procedures are conducted transparently, effectively and with the highest possible proceeds for our common country. The proposal we have before us concerns two subjects. The first is the transparency of sales procedures or the requirement of conduct, which is the last owner in the chain on the customer's side, while the second is trying to address the question of extending the powers of the National Assembly in the resolution of supervisors. Both initiatives can be considered legitimate, as there was also a public perception of dissatisfaction and disappointment and an impression of imprudent and ineffective action in the conduct of certain sales procedures and other actions of our largest asset manager, which certainly cannot be proud of us. With regard to transparency, we in the SMC Group believe that this problem must certainly be addressed better. This, in our view, can be done in a slightly better way than the proposaler has suggested or, as mentioned above, we have contributed to this, namely, the law which regulates the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, which we have in the process and will also be held next week at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Why do I mention or mention this law? In particular, because we believe that some of the solutions, what such a verification process should look like, have been firmly defined there. How will we put this into law or how we will resolve the call, and it is up to us to prepare it? If we go further, to another solution which provides for additional powers for the National Assembly in the resolution of SDH members, we feel that at the moment we have other tools that force this institution into a transparent and effective action that we must first use, as the previously mentioned decree governing the management of state investment, and the second, which we have on the table, in our opinion, the possibility of a simple and direct withdrawal of supervisors by the National Assembly would create constant political pressure and involvement in the functioning of SDH. The proposed solution would therefore result in instability in the supervisory and management structure and would further undermine the possibility of transparent and efficient holding operations. We will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Slovenian State Holding in the SMC Group for these reasons. However, this is not the end of these initiatives with regard to ensuring transparency as to who actually is the buyer of these companies. We have said that we see how it should be regulated in those solutions that we have in the Law governing the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and we have said that we have other tools that we need to use or that we can improve, here I am thinking mainly about the country's investment management strategy, in which we clearly say what we expect. It follows from this that if there were any infringements, the Government, as a assembly, is also responding, and those present at SDH supervisory board meetings also react, here I am thinking mainly of the representative of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy, as well as of our Public Finance Supervisory Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u108	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the management of state property under the government of Mir Cerar and the SMC, SD and Desus coalition is inappropriate. We are also convinced that the management of state property under this government in the history of Slovenia is the worst. This opinion can be followed not only by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, but also by the opinion of the professional public, which appears in Slovenia. Not all problems related to the management of the Slovenian State Holding, but I think that one of the key problems that is today is that the Slovenian State Holding has temporary leadership. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party we do not understand the words spoken in public by the President of the Government on the successful management of state property, on economic growth and, above all, on the recognition that, under the government of Mira Cerar, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, a strategy for the management of state property was adopted. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, at the time of the adoption of this strategy, we have already pointed out the type of shortcomings that this strategy has, but the coalition has not heard, I would say, all the arguments and proposals that we have put forward in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Finally, however, the management of the Slovenian state holding company has now appealed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to the Ministry of Finance, that the strategy is inadequate or incomplete. The facts we have here today, I would say, have already had quite a hot debate on at least two financial committees and monetary policy. That we have this readmission today, I think that the coalition is also responsible to a greater extent here. The fact is that, at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy's meeting, you have made a mistake in voting and that today we have one victory from the law, which the motioner is trying to correct in some way. Now that we are listening to the position of both the government and the largest parliamentary group, the largest coalition parties, the modern centre parties, I miss the point of admitting that you were wrong about the vote. But today you are trying again here with certain arguments, which at least I don't think they hold, to challenge this amendment. The fact is, you're citing political pressure. Look, a respected government and a respected coalition, I am sure that any decision taken in Parliament is a political decision and the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding Council has put the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. And a coalition is responsible for the composition of the Supervisory Board, because you voted for the proposed members. We didn't support it in the opposition. I am sure that this proposal, which goes towards better regulation of the management of the Slovenian State holding company, is appropriate. Above all, it is in the light that it is likely that if a person appoints a supervisory board, that he has the right to also propose his discharge or discharge of an individual member. I miss that, in the position of the Government and now the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, no one has pointed out that the conditions for recalling a member of the Supervisory Council do not change and that they remain the same as those set out in the law. And he definitely cannot hold the argument that now ten Members of Parliament could demand every day a proposal from the Government to dismiss the members of the Supervisory Board. For the applicant does not define and amend the conditions for discharge, and this means that, irrespective of the change to be made, that ten members of the National Assembly may propose withdrawals to the Government, this withdrawal must be substantiated and must follow the same conditions as those of the Supervisory Council as are applicable to the Government. We have repeatedly stressed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, including on the Committee, that changes are needed under certain articles of this Act. One change is, of course, this recall of the members of the Supervisory Board, because we have made arguments. If the Government does not do its job, it shall be open to the National Assembly or 10 Members. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that at least two members of the Supervisory Council are at odds with the conditions they should meet as a member of the Supervisory Council. Finally, on one of the Committees on Finance and Monetary Policy, the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding said that at least two members of the Supervisory Board had to be excluded from voting due to conflict of interest. And if the Government does not carry out its task of not proposing a replacement of a member of the Supervisory Board, we are confident that this instrument could also be held by the National Assembly. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that with this proposal, when 10 Members can propose a replacement, we cannot talk about some political interest here. On the other hand, as long as the state owns companies, they will always be in the background of political decisions, regardless of the OECD concept and the recommendations. And the fact is, the government is responsible for managing state property and for Slovenian state holding. Besides, there is no existing law. And the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the Assembly. Dear representatives of the Government, we cannot go beyond this, and finally, the Minister of Finance and Minister of Economy also sit at the meetings of the Supervisory Board. This can also be political pressure on the one hand. I am convinced that the resignation of the last Prime Minister of the Slovenian State Holding, Mr Jazbec, is also linked to political pressure. The entire coalition dealt with the Slovenian State Holding. Let's just remember that because of, I would say, political pressure, the Defense Minister who was involved in the privatisation of Telekom had to step down. But we're talking about state property. Dear coalition, we have made one decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will support this proposed amendment. In the event that this amendment is not voted on, we will vote against the law. For the fact that you have given a coalition provision that the law, the three articles, will be corrected, then there will be a procrastination condition that this law enters into force in one year, and I think you're making a fool of yourself and that this is all unhygienic. We propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this amendment be supported. In the event that this amendment does not receive any support, however, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we call on both the coalition and the opposition to try to make changes here in the Slovenian State Holding Act. And one of the important changes we see in the Slovenian Democratic Party is the composition of the Supervisory Council. Despite the fact that the proponent took a positive step, the shadow is still throwing that right at the time she was a mag. Alenka Bratušek, President of the Government, there was a change to the Slovenian State Holding Act and that the opposition representative was thrown out. And the well-respected coalition, the respected Government, I am convinced that what the government of Janez Janša has prepared for the law, that the city in the supervisory council of the Slovenian State Holding Council also has the opposition, should correct this change that occurred in the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek. Because the Commission has an instrument to oversee public finances to propose its candidate under the same conditions as the other members of this Supervisory Board. The coalition has been convened several times, the President of the Commission may be present in the Supervisory Board, but until the representative of the Commission for the supervision of public finances has a voting right in the Supervisory Board, it is as if he does not have this membership. The fact is that there is probably a type of risk and a type of question whether the operation of the Slovenian State holding company takes place transparently or not. I'm sure this management here is bad, here speak both numbers and facts. Let us just remember the blemish that this government or the Slovenian State Holding has had in the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of our largest system bank prior to privatisation and a number of other matters. Now, if the coalition is at least in position, I did not understand how you will define yourself until today's vote, but at least in the halls of the National Assembly we can hear that you will not support this amendment. We can explain this in our own way. I would like to explain that this kind of management suits you, which means that the personal partial interests of the Modern Centre Party and the SD and Desusa do prevail. We, in the event that the amendment does not receive support, will not support the law, because if you then vote this bill as "yes", then I think that something is really wrong in this country and that in fact, I would say, you have no sense or sense of management of state property. And I urge the Government once again to seriously consider whether such a law as it is today without this amendment makes any sense at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the representative of the government! Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian State Holding Act. The proposed solution, which gives the National Assembly the opportunity to recall the members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding on its own motion and in the manner set out in the bill, does not seem appropriate to us. One of the most important objectives of the SDH Act is to separate the function of the State as the owner of capital investments from other functions of the State or, very simply stated, to separate the policy from management. We are convinced that it is crucial that SDH works independently of political pressure and that this would happen with the proposed addition. Political pressures on the functioning of SDH Council supervisors would be put in place. If such an initiative could trigger a smaller number of Members or even a larger number, it is not important now at the final stage, nor is it a number, when the amendment is trying to resolve it, that discussions on the exchange of supervisors should be regularly monitored in the National Assembly. We believe that this could seriously erase the line that distinguishes policy from governance, which would be a major blow to the stable functioning of the supervisory board. The fact is, of course, that we have witnessed some stupid or gracious decisions made by the national asset manager in the past year, but we believe in the Desus Group that the solution is to choose competent, experienced people, especially honest people, not only or not just in constantly changing legislation. I would, of course, like to point out here that it will certainly be crucial for the country and our citizens to be responsible for the management of state property to adhere strictly to the strategy adopted by this National Assembly and, of course, to change and complement it if necessary. However, after careful consideration and not in a hand-to-hand manner. Not to mention, of course, that the basic mission of the SDH leadership is to legally, legitimately and economically justify the management of state property, otherwise people will be called to criminal responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, we also agree that the sale of state property to companies whose owners are not verifiable is not a serious problem, but is worth a conviction. After reporting to the media, some companies that have been sold in the past are expected to end up in so-called castles or post offices from tax-friendly environments, while two are expected to remain part of the ownership chain in which companies from tax havens play a key role. Here, of course, I would like to point out a little outside the context that the global tax oasis system, which offers the possibility of tax evasion, seems harmful to us. These tax evasions could be used to build roads, hospitals, schools or, if you wish, to finance long-term care. The provision that talks about the ownership of the buyer of capital investment, we are aware of this, that is so unfortunately too precise, too precise, that we in Desus are not only tilting, but we consider it the most appropriate, most appropriate solution at this time, to resolve this in the framework of the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, which will be discussed next week at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy meeting, which will also be added to SDH as a debtor in Article 4. But I'm sure it's going to be the DUTB, or it's going to be the DUTB. Article 4 specifies exactly who the debtors are and also sets out how the debtors must obtain information regarding the identification of the beneficial owner and more. But if, as has already been heard, some changes and additions to the SDH Act are needed, of course in Desus we will listen as much as possible and support all those solutions that will benefit, in a single word, the fair management of state property. Of all the above, we do not support the solution contained in the proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u111	Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which we are considering today, has two important solutions. The first is to ensure that in the case of the sale of assets managed by the Slovenian State holding company for the account of the Republic of Slovenia, the verification of the ownership of customers and, in so doing, to prevent the sale of state property to buyers with capital of suspicious origin or unclear ownership in the future. The proposal is needed already because we are meeting that our most important companies, which Holding sells, are buying companies that arise just before sale and come from tax havens. However, the precise verification of this property has not yet been carried out or we have not yet met a case where Holding would inform us that it has prevented sales due to suspicious capital origin. Another time. The National Assembly wishes to regain its responsibility with the possibility of recalling members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding Board in the event of unlawful or harmful conduct. In view of the current regulation, the National Assembly has the opportunity to appoint members of the Supervisory Board on a proposal from the Government and may approve or reject this proposal but cannot influence the composition of this proposal. So the National Assembly is very limited in who will oversee the operation of the Slovenian State Holding. One applies in the discharge procedure of the members of the Supervisory Board. According to the law in force, a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding may, on a proposal from the Government, call the National Assembly, so that we are again limited to the Government's proposal, so that as Members we can take the initiative of the Government to dismiss a member of the Supervisory Board, but the Government is the one who then decides on his own whether or not to take this initiative into account. The impact of the National Assembly on the management of 12 billion people's assets is indeed minimal, so these solutions in this law were needed and not least received in the first reading of the National Assembly a total of 70 votes, which means that a wide range of Members, in fact, from all parliamentary groups, really wanted to be settled and to take on the responsibility of the people with the election. We are, in fact, only Members within this system of government, representatives of the people, and we are directly accountable to them. Both the Slovenian State Holding and the Government do not have this direct responsibility, the Government is responsible to the National Assembly and the Members directly to the people. Thus, that purpose was truly sincere. Unfortunately, further adoption of the law has resulted in the rejection of the amendment, which has also cleared the procedure, in what way and when 10 members of the National Assembly may propose the discharge of an individual member of the Supervisory Board. Unfortunately, on the working body, this amendment was not supported, I supported it myself, but there was no majority support. He therefore announced the initial proposal that members of the Supervisory Board could be replaced on a proposal from the Government or a proposal from the National Assembly, but unfortunately the procedure was not cleared, in what way the National Assembly could carry out this procedure. This creates an important void that would lead to the possibility of meeting many times with replacement proposals and, on the other hand, have been limited in how to do so. The same applies when determining the origin of the assets. Although the amendment has been adopted, we note that these provisions, which are immediately possible in this law, do not allow for sufficient effective verification of the origin of the ownership of buyers of state property. In the light of the fact that we have a new bill on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in the procedure of the National Assembly, which very clearly defines the ownership verification procedure, in our opinion this ownership check should also be included in this proposal for a law in the Slovenian State Holding. We note that this bill currently under consideration on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing does not currently include between the Slovenian State Holding and DUTB or the Bad Bank. This is a major flaw in this proposal and we will, of course, insist and propose to include the Slovenian State Holding and also the Bad Bank in this law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. This is a solution that would certainly eliminate a number of dilemmas, who will be the buyer of our property if this process is already within the holding company and also in the case of a bad bank. For this reason, because it is not possible to implement the Slovenian State Holding Act, which we are currently considering, we will not support this proposal. We will strongly support the fact that the Slovenian State Holding is committed to the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and is also a bad bank. It is unacceptable that we do not have 12 billion assets involved in the system of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and something similar in the case of a bad bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you for saying that one more time, chairman. A respected choir! The United Left will support the amendment. Why? Following the current regime, the recall of the Supervisory Board can only be proposed by a government which, by definition, protects its supervisory board, so it is virtually impossible to reach a decision on the withdrawal. This proved to be true, for example, in the case of Luke Koper, when the SDH supervisory board had to be called off immediately, but I will return to that position in the second part of my position. First, it must be said that the proposed legal solution is far from what we would need to manage state-owned enterprises in the public interest. It is also significantly less than what we have proposed in the United Left already three times, immediately after the 2014 term and then twice in last year. We have proposed three solutions to the three key problems that we are discussing today. The main problem is privatisation. Any privatisation is already a medium-term loss to the state. Why? Because of its failure to pay off future profits and this is a fact, because if there were no profits, the private investor of the company would of course not have bought them. Therefore, already in September 2014 we proposed to repeal the infamous decision on the sale of 15 companies, which at the time included Aerodrome Ljubljana, Telekom, Adrio Techniko, Novo Credit Bank Maribor and you know it well. There was no support. On the contrary, the SMC Coalition, Desus, SD has adopted a strategy on investment management, which is in fact not a strategy, but a list for privatisation of nearly 90 remaining shares of the country. Some companies would sell only up to half or quarter of the share, but this means that in companies such as the Triglav Insurance Company, a foreign financial group would take full control of our key companies. Secondly, because privatisation could not be stopped, at least we tried to limit it because the people are mostly against such a sale. I am sure that the coalition MPs would not be able to vote in favour of the privatisation of companies, such as the insurance company already mentioned, Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways or in recent times I am not even so sure that I really do not. That is why we proposed an amendment to the SDH Act last February so that the National Assembly for Increasing Privatisations should give further agreement. Neither has this law been supported by any party of the regime. Neither coalition nor opposition. The third problem, however, affects the SDH Supervisory Board, which is the subject of today's treatment. Only capital, but not work, is represented in the SDH supervisory council. The SDH Supervisory Board consists of 5 directors of private companies and professional supervisors, who are the extended term of the ruling coalition. What's their job? To appoint members of the administration and then to cover the backs of these members of the administration, their function in the system of governance in Slovenia is essentially to serve as a platform for government policy. That was the case, and he's still Luke Koper. Public-private partnership for the second track forces the government, not SDH. The task of SDH is to discipline the leadership of Luke Koper, who did not submit to this plan. In this way, the Government may say that it does not interfere in the management of businesses, but at the same time it can undermine these companies by taking concessions. What is evident from this? That in the control world is not a public interest, but an interest, I will say, a ruling click that only disguises itself as a public interest. That is why, last February, we proposed an amendment to the SDH Act to appoint half of the representatives of the SDH Supervisory Council as employees of state-owned companies. I am convinced that a supervisory board in which half the workers would have half the members would never appoint an administration such as SDH has today. I know that such a control council, in d., let's just say, would immediately resolve any administration that would do what the management of Mark Jazebec was doing in the Luke Koper affair, as well as in other cases. I am now moving on to the proposed amendment. According to our assessment, this is not a key but a necessary correction of the current management system, because if there are still no workers' representatives in the SDH supervisory board, at least the National Assembly can act against the supervisory council. Of course, we're not that naive again. Our political class has long achieved a consensus on privatisation. The difference between the right and the so-called left is just a nuance. The right would privatise quickly, the so-called left and, under the quotes, the blue-, end of the index, and the centrifuge gradually and with two-faced statements how they are against, but then we will paraphrase the leaders of the SD Group: We have already destroyed everything else, and let's do this. In short, the goals and consequences are identical. I am therefore convinced that the coalition would support the Supervisory Board in this case as well. All we expect from this change is that citizens and citizens will see what certain parties, especially those who call themselves left-wing, although they are not, say what they are doing. Otherwise, I must say that the coalition has carried out a rather good pear maneuver when it proposed that the use of the new power should be suspended for one year. This avoided the opposition of the public, which would certainly have followed after the coalition members in the National Assembly had voted in favour of Mr Belic and his associates. In the United Left, we will support the amendment because we are aware that SDH has too much manoeuvring space in privatisation, the framework of privatisation is determined by the coalition, unfortunately not by the Government, DZ as such, but SDH is implementing and implementing this privatisation significantly more brutally than the investment management strategy, which is in fact not a strategy, which I have already said. There's a lot of cases. I'll just give you two. The New Bank of Maribor – a bank with a capital ratio of almost 27%, with the Post Bank has a dense network of businesses open on Saturdays, which it also achieved thanks to state aid, which amounted to EUR billion in previous years, and SDH sold the bank for less than a quarter of its book value after the European Commission's dictatorship. An eloquent example of what people call a sale. Adria Airways Tech, second case. A medium-sized company with a highly qualified, specific workforce, which was a school ideal example for labour ownership and management. SDH has allowed management to violate the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. SDH prevented the labour buyout because it did not allow the workers to increase the offer, the management immediately cancelled the collective contract under the new owner, while at the same time bullying those who were seeking a labor buyout. Most of the initiators were abandoned or had to leave the company alone. This is happening under the government of Mira Cerar, who has made economic democracy one of the priorities. So, if I conclude, in the United Left we immediately demanded the cessation of privatisation in accordance with our base's mandate. When we failed to achieve this, we proposed to the security guards that privatisation would not be possible without the consent of the National Assembly, at the same time, we demanded that half of the members of the Supervisory Council be employed in state-owned enterprises, which is why this proposal, which is now being considered here, is, of course, very little. But since we are not concerned with party prestige, but with positive changes, we will still support the law and the amendment. Finally, I would like to add that beyond this corporate governance, with which the barantate representatives of the Government and the coalition like to speak here, we want to manage for the benefit of citizens and citizens and that the recommendations of the OECD, the European Commission and someone else, whom you so much like to mention for an excuse, also include the interests of these actors, which make up such associations, not only the love of Slovenia. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian State Holding Act, which was introduced into the legislative procedure a long time ago, has brought some changes to the state-owned property management area. Some of them were less acceptable to us than to New Slovenia — Christian Democrats. Since we found some suggestions interesting, we supported the law at first reading. The first of the proposed changes was the introduction of a verification of ownership of the acquirer of the State investment. By adopting the proposed solution, the proposal would prevent the applicant from guessing who the new owner is, whether it is a so-called straw buyer or whether the investment was proposed to the so-called postal mailbox. The original text of this provision imposed this obligation on the Slovenian State holding company clearly and directly. However, the Coalition Amendment has amended this provision by setting the criteria and the extent of the verification of the ownership of the buyer of the capital investment, which is certainly a step backwards compared to the original investment. The initial proposal proposed the introduction of a request to the new owner to pursue the objectives and strategy adopted by the National Assembly for the investment in question. In Novi Slovenija, we have already expressed strong concerns at first reading about the validity of such a request and its consequences for the progress of further privatisation procedures. Such burdens would, in our view, distort the role of the new owner, reduce the interest of investors and make it difficult for the country to withdraw from the economy. Let us point out once again that Slovenia is one of the countries with the highest level of state ownership in the economy, according to OECD data. We are therefore pleased in New Slovenia that provisions that require new owners to implement the strategy cannot be found in a newer form of the bill. It also intervenes in the field of the supervision of the National Assembly over the operation of the Slovenian State Holding. Under the current legislation, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, appoints members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding and can also resolve them under certain conditions on a proposal from the Government. The amendment of the law still leaves a proposal for the National Assembly to call a member of the Supervisory Board on its own motion. On the other hand, the bill removed a provision whereby the working body of the National Assembly could require clarifications, data and documents from the Administration and Supervisory Board of the Slovenian National Holding, which we regret by the Christian Democrats. In Novi Slovenija we will not support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act. We love that the original text of the coalition has been mutilated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Joseph Horvat. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. I give the word "magic." Alenki Brother. Get ready, mags. Andrej Shircelj and Mrs Violeta Tomić. Mrs. Bratusek, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you very much. What we have heard now as a presentation of the positions of the coalition groups is a great deal of deliberation. In the case of state property, it happens too often to say something and do something else. And now let's take a chronological look at what happened to this bill. In the Alliance, we have drawn up a proposal for amendments, and I will say again about three key points. The first is transparency. So everyone should know who, a respected coalition, you sell our companies to. No, you voted no. Okay. Let's move on. We have proposed that, at the request of the committee, the competent committee or the National Assembly, the Slovenian State Holding Committee shall provide Members with the information requested. No, Your Honor, you've decided not to. Certain information must not be transmitted to us. You're the only one who knows why. You're the only one who knows why. The third thing that the National Assembly, which appointed this Supervisory Council, could be proposed under the conditions laid down in the law that apply to the Government today, and would then apply to the National Assembly, could propose a resolution of the Supervisory Council. Here, a well-respected coalition, you have agreed today that it is so right and even voted an amendment that it is a one-year moratorium in which you will arrange this resolution process, but I do not know what has happened from the second hearing to today that, dear colleagues in the coalition, you do not agree with this. You're against your proposal today. Can a normal person understand that? I really want to hear what happened. And it does not help to write on facebooks how we are against how poorly we manage state property, how we cannot do it, when we need to ensure a voice for transparency, a voice for those who do bad things to take responsibility, but get lost. These are the facts. Unfortunately, to the detriment of the people. What is more, that this change would be — how has it been said? “Intervention in the management of state property.” So it's already an intervention that the National Assembly appoints the Supervisory Council. And don't talk to me about political independence, as long as the secretaries-general of the three coalition parties are gathering people sitting in the supervisory council. That's the fact that everyone knows about this meeting. You're the only one who's kidding. What political independence?Oh, my God! This government and this coalition are responsible for managing state property, so people put you here. And unfortunately, you're still counting to 46 and something, so you're guilty and responsible for what's going on with this state property. This is a fact, including Desus and SD, or perhaps the most with Desus and SD. Without you, such nonsense and such filth would not have happened. They don't help words, actions are needed. In the case of Adrie Airways specifically, I will now tell you what company you sold to Adrio Airways. That's how you wrote down 19. January: »Slovakia state holding company d.d., after successful negotiations with DUTB on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and on its behalf concluded a contract for the sale of 91.58% of Adria Airways’ share, d.d.« One hundred thousand euros. Once again: 100,000 euros. You sold this to 4K Invest and also wrote that this is one of the leading specialists in business conversions in Europe. That's it. This same company purchased Antila in Finland in March 2015. And this leading specialist in business conversions on 20 July 2016 put this company with a thousand 300 employees in bankruptcy. These are business conversion specialists that you sell Slovenian property to. These are the facts. These are the facts. And for all of this is a coalition, absolutely no one else. We can warn, we can propose changes. We can be loud, but we can't change anything until the coalition with Desus and SD has a majority in this National Assembly. And it does not help to stand up for a payphone and criticize the management of state property, but it does require action. Change is needed, and it is necessary to move from words to actions. And not then that you will settle certain things at the end of 2018. Today, now and immediately, if we want to preserve something else in the Slovenian State Holding. Keep it. You are the only one in Europe who sold the new Maribor Credit Bank to the financial fund. It can be good, I don't know, I don't criticize, but the only country that sold the system bank to the financial fund. The only one. That's how they warned us at the Bank of Slovenia. She's not a country, she's not a devil to do it. Not to mention that you sold the bank just before you paid into the state budget, I think 16 million euros in profits. All these are the sins you all have together, all of you 52 in this national assembly on your back. And that's a fact. There's no other way. If you want to co-create a different policy of managing state property, it will be necessary to prove yourself in actions, not to plant flowers, to promise, to criticize how things are wrong, but, of course, all this quietly, not quietly, and then to support with the button. It's your responsibility for what's happening right now. And, Mr Weber, the procedure for replacing the Supervisory Council with the amendment is, of course, regulated, so that we are talking about the motion for a speaker, that the amendment has been rejected, and that now the law you have drafted, the coalition, is being drafted in a second reading. I don't know where you were sitting then. You form a law until the third reading of the findings is impossible. I agree. And since the debate in this National Assembly in the second reading was such, we have drafted an amendment that accurately regulates the procedure for replacing the members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. And if it is enough for one minister to discuss his work, his suitability, whether he is a minister or not, if ten signatures are enough, no one will tell me that the Supervisory Board needs more. However, if you think there is more, make an amendment and write that it takes 90 Members to replace the Supervisory Council. But don't get carried away. Don't move! Indeed, this was too much for that speaker today in the presentation of the parliamentary positions. Simply say that you like it, as it is today in the management of state property, because of this you all obviously have certain benefits. If not, if it were otherwise, we would have shown this by doing so and the law we have drafted would have been adopted in the basic text, it is said, that transparency would be ensured and the possibility that the National Assembly would take action when it comes to the violation of the law. We have not written that the National Assembly can at any time, in any way, propose a replacement; if the conditions of the law, which are tax-listed, are met and we have not changed them. We didn't change those. And in the face of the affairs of the Slovenian State Holding, of the New Ljubljana Bank, Adrie Airways, Luke Koper and what else would have happened, of course, since we still do not know if Mr Jazbec is still employed in the Slovenian State Holding, and I think I will be very happy to ask you this question five times in public. Nothing. You're just passing through. That's the face of that coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u119	The word has magic. Andrej Šircelj, prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić and Mr Ange Logar. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Allow me to simply address or comment on the statements made by the representative of the Government and the reasons for rejecting this law and this amendment or this negative response of this government to this law, which has its way, but requires that all Members and Members of Parliament have a few meetings, in particular in the sense of finding appropriate solutions in terms of transparency, in the sense of a greater role, after all, of the National Assembly, especially because the National Assembly confirms the supervisors and, of course, in the sense that more effective management of state property and also more efficient sales of state property, should this happen. Look, you're constantly citing yourself to the OECD guidelines and you're constantly citing yourself to the European Commission and so on - because this is all guaranteed. If the National Assembly is able to call back, what will be the difference? Is this going to be political now? How's it going now? Is this government political? Is this government political or do I not know what it is? Do you know that this government knows that under the Slovenian Constitution, every Slovenian government is political. What's said is that the technical government and so on, look, it's nothing. Every government is political. And if politics, the ruling policy has so much and so much property, then it must be managed, of course, in accordance with the guidelines, of course, in accordance with certain principles and so on. But if there wasn't so much government property, then these guidelines would be perfectly normal. And these guidelines are written for them because Slovenia is one of the few countries that has so much state property, and I will not now say whether it is good or bad, but Slovenia is a rare country, among the first ten that has the most state property. They have already been mentioned here in this National Assembly, of which countries belong. I don't know if the current secretary of state knows this, but these countries are not exactly European countries and those that are the leading economic and financial forces in the world. The government is political. Do you think you're not political, that you're, I don't know, given by God, that it's God's government? Whose government is that? The government is political. And that also makes political solutions. But political solutions must go in the direction of expertise, efficiency, transparency and so on. And you're rejecting that. Politicians, the political government rejects transparent solutions. That's what this government is about. And, of course, this government is called by the National Assembly. And the National Assembly is political. So this misinterpretation in this opinion given by the Government, look, this is true, I will say, higher or simply underestimate the National Assembly. It is easy to write professionally and underestimate the National Assembly that here is enough to write something and to say something and that it will be professional and non-political and so on. It can't be any different than political. Politics may or may not take into account expertise. But he's not here. And here, as far as politics, this time opposition policy, is concerned, requires greater transparency in the management of state property and in the sale of state property. What's wrong here? What's wrong with the other half for the coalition? And if politics requires that supervisors be able to change and that an invitation can be made to be replaced in the National Assembly – what is wrong here? We're all politicians, respected secretary of state, all of us. If you're a secretary of state, you're a politician by law and by constitution. The government is political. So with this visual as is actually this shift of government, that now the government is just once, I don't know, God or I don't know whose, it's actually a little bit for the hair. You even say that this would mean certain consequences and a certain risk and could threaten the strength of the supervisory council and, of course, would be contrary to corporate governance, contrary to independence and so on. Look, if the government falls, that's a risk, and as long as we have state property, it's one or the other government or the other government that's going to set up a control council, and I don't think it's the other one, because the government is actually doing this property. And nothing will be wrong with the corporate performance of the OECD and so on. This corporate governance was intended and was written for private property, not for state property. But we have state property. So from that point of view, you know, that kind of opinion actually then come with him here and say, you know what, we're not going to accept it because it's all in conflict with what I don't know. Look, we've been listening to this for a long time and we've been calling special meetings, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, and we're actually calling, of course, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and so on, and nothing is changing. However, nothing changes in this management. The fact that the government as owner does not tell SDH supervisors that the property of the buyer of the state company must be known. Look, this is, I don't know why it's not, but it's horrible. And to sell businesses, state-owned enterprises abroad, which are in more favourable tax environments, I will not say tax havens, and they are established with minimum capital as SPVs, because they are well known because multinationals create them on purpose only for this purchase. These multinationals set up this with a minimum capital, a few 10,000 euros in any country and a loan. By giving credit to this company with EUR 20, 30 000 or in capital dollars, the multinational will give it credit and this company will buy a state company from Slovenia and repay the loan to this multinational. And you allow it. And with this opinion, you allow it and we're talking about transfer prices. Of course, tax administrations will then look here at transfer prices and interest, whether they are marketed or not and so on, but even if they are not, there will be little more tax to pay, nothing for it. And so, of course, all companies sold by SDH so far are actually sold. In order to know who the owner is, what he will do with it and so on, no, but this is political pressure on the government, political pressure on corporate governance and so on. I'm actually asking myself, what is the point of common sense here? Actually, I'm asking myself. And if the opposition is the one who controls it, then they have the right to control it. But you're not giving any chance of this actually being the opposition or that you're doing it. So the coalition could control it. Then I don't really know whose interest it is because it's illogical. Is it in the interests of this coalition or this government or is it in the interest of someone else? And I'm afraid it's in the interest of someone else who has such an impact on this government that this government doesn't really want to accept it. I don't know, but then it's all illogical. Then it's actually illogical, or it's crazy. So from this point of view, you know, we are really talking about this thing today five times, six times or ten times in this state or plenary session or on committees or committees and so on and so forth, and of course here, look at the repetition of one and the same, that nothing changes and that the management of state property is the same and that the sale in the same way is actually getting a little tired. The SMC also argues that two ministers may go to the Supervisory Board and I am the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, and I can go so far as to sign there that we cannot say anything about what will happen. We sign that we are criminally responsible if anything comes out and so on, and yet we do not have the right to vote, we may or may not recall. And that's actually the whole story. We can also work together, of course, but we will not be taken into account by anyone, but we cannot change any decision because the overseers are independent anyway. We're observers there. It may be nice to be an observer in life, but as observers, you have no active role to play in changing anything. And the same is true at Banka Slovenije, a colleague of Banova can tell you. So this solution, to which you then argue that this is a very good solution, see, this is a more observable mission from this point of view. I suggest you convene a meeting and change the government's opinion under this law. Call a government meeting and do something about this property. Don't let him go. Slovenians and Slovenes have this property, don't leave it in such a way that everything will just spill out. So I am for this to be done, to be sold in a transparent way, that Members and Members receive all data from the Slovenian State Holding and that, of course, the conditions for recall are known and that if the National Assembly actually approves members of the Supervisory Councils, I do not know why we could not also give the initiative to actually call them off. Nothing's gonna be wrong. Nothing will be political anymore or less than now. In fact, the whole matter should also be taken in this direction, and everyone would probably have more of it later on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Get Dr. Ange Logar and the mags ready. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Politicians keep telling us about independence and sovereignty, and in fact this country and this territory are politically and economically more subordinate than ever since World War I. Key companies and all infrastructure are moving into the management of neighbouring countries, notably Austria, Germany and even Croatia. My colleague Weber will know what I'm talking about, because as soon as he questioned the privatisation, he was suspended, and even his Social Democrats did not stand up for him. One thing they say, the other one they do, that's typical. For when they speak, they applaud them, because this is what voters want to hear, but when it comes to taking responsibility, then they vote in favour of a decision on the sale of 15 companies, for a management strategy, for a novel on the Slovenian Railways Act, in short, they do everything to keep the ministerial chairs in the government, which does exactly the same as what it says. In short, the damage to privatisation is most easily seen, for example, in the case of the Ljubljana Aerodrome, which was sold to the state-owned company Fraport. Privatisation is not a privatisation if we sell the state-owned enterprise of Slovenia to the state-owned company of Germany. We could call it something different, but I won't now. Fraport brought nothing but stagnation to the Ljubljana Aerodrome. He did not invest a single euro in the airport, even though he made huge promises, particularly regarding freight transport. But because of the privatisation of the Aerodrome, we have lost 17 million European funds that have already been approved for the new passenger terminal. And for Fraport, of course, Ljubljana is a provincial airport, it doesn't need much traffic, because it got a company that is practically innocent and got it at an extremely low price; therefore, it doesn't have to invest why. And this is also known in transport, because in May this year, 9 % less passengers were at the airport than in May. Although Fraport is known as a democratic company, it is immediately – this applies to a company in Germany, with us it is slightly different, because one of the first moves was that the Aerodrome changed from d. d. to d. o.o. and automatically terminated the supervisory board, and workers lost the possibility of co-ordination in the organs of society. He was also the half owner of Adria Technika and also the leadership of Fraport’s Aerodrome opposed to the labor buyout. And so on. And today, the team of Minister Gasperšič plans to have foreign countries of the majority ownership of 2TKK. Bravo! Great! In the debate on the interpretation, Minister Gasperšič confirmed that arrangements with Hungary were still under way. The point is this, 2TKK will have a concession not only for the second track, but also for the existing track, which means that foreign countries will fully, respected colleagues and colleagues, fully control the only link between Kopra and the world and the citizens will be subsidised for it. This case is also up-to-date because the sale of Slovenian freight railways to Austrian state railways is planned. To this end, the coalition has already amended the Slovenian Railways Act in March and the Director of the Slovenian Railways has already adopted the strategic business plan of the SŽ Group, which envisages privatisation, and signed a letter of intent to connect with the Austrian state railways already in January. And since the President of the Government is very much looking for octopuses that have kidnapped our country and other cephalopods, I would like to suggest that he throw his eye in that direction. Well, finally, this case is also up to date because of the second track and fate of Luke Koper, because, namely, Minister Gasperšič now says they will not grant concessions for port services, provided that SZ and Luka Koper will participate in the public-private partnership. But this cooperation can mean a lot. So far, cooperation has always meant the privatisation of Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways through a logistics holding company, and this was proposed in 2007 by Deutsche Bahn, which was last December – see – proposed by Dušan Mes. And this idea of logistics holding is also addressed by the Interdepartmental Group for the second track, led by our surviving Minister Gasperšič. And we don't know what the position of this group is because its reports to the government always have an internal marking. However, it is confirmed that this option is, of course, being addressed. Therefore, the second track project is still not cleared, Luka Koper is still at risk and it is also clear that SDH will probably try to replace the administration. The moment a member of the Supervisory Board resigns, SDH could appoint new ones and thus reach the majority. In short, we've lost our sovereignty, we've lost our independence, we've lost our country. And who will be responsible for this? Coalition? I hope the voters see the duality and this discrimination between words and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u123	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go, Mr. Verbich. Your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you so much for your words, Vice President! Secretary of State, Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament, very nice greeting! I must admit that I have listened very closely to the debates and also to the presentations, and I will allow myself first, before continuing my debate on the agenda item, I have touched on these colleagues and colleagues who discussed. First of all, I must admit that I would somehow ask a question to a respected colleague from the biggest opposition party who put an interesting thesis in his presentation. It's a definition. The management of state assets is the worst during the whole period by this government. I will not discuss much in this matter, because I think you know from the left and right also my position that I am critical in some part of my government, but I have to point this out in particular because of the following. The fact is that the management of state property in the Republic of Slovenia has been dispersed until this year. It is also right that we should touch this point a little bit in a certain direction. The fact is that this management was divided into four segments. In the early periods when the state's property was managed, we know whether or not you know that it was followed by the ministries themselves. This was followed in the processes of the Capital Investment Management Agency, and only in 2012 did the then government of Janez Janša have the courage to adopt the Slovenian State Holding Act. But the fact is that there was not enough of this legal basis, so it changed practically in 2014 and 2015. Why am I bringing this up? Especially because I don't think such a definition is in place, because how can you judge something unless you have practical parameters, acts, strategies. For the strategy on the management of state assets was adopted only during this coalition. And if I link the adoption of the law in 2012 on the Slovenian State Holding, I would like to comment to all those who have discussed and who have spoken a lot about the OECD, the European Commission, as if it were some sort of non-digacy. I think it is irresponsible, sometimes just to comment flatly, because we are members of the European Union, we are committed to certain recommendations and will not continue to do so. I refer to the OECD recommendations for a simple reason, since the area of corporate governance of state-owned companies has always been a ruckus of areas in the Republic of Slovenia and the policy you were then, most likely you recall that there was a major problem in the relationship of the Republic of Slovenia with the European Community. And precisely because of whether the Slovenian State Holding Act was adopted in 2012, the possibility opened up for other areas, as these were the procedures we know under the so-called accreditation. In this way, the Republic of Slovenia has also provided a lot of good in its fields. That's why I wouldn't comment on it with my left hand. I think that Members, when we speak an all-or-like rhetoric, that we must also touch the content. Since I am still with the same Member, I must very much welcome his word, he said it was decided that this was the victory of this law. Then let us not be surprised or surprised if our position is now somewhat different. A similar word by the opposition MP, who said that the bill tabled is now virtually completely mutilated. And here we immediately wonder whether then we Members are so responsible that we have so much will and that we do not accept on the door or on the nose of some legal basis, the law, if there is something or much truth on it. I am alone in the view that the management of state property, the debate on this, is never over. Katji, there is a very clear question and I have also addressed it here several times, where the border between policy and the management of state property is based on corporate governance. If I continue with the debates. The honourable Member, who is proposing this law, has, in some ways, made clear the transparency and accountability of the SMC Group in the management processes. I don't think it's appropriate for her to make such an expression of responsibility. For, honourable Member, if you had a serious intention to do something for the country's well-being, then you had an opportunity as Prime Minister to operationalize it. As a result, at least in these instances, he may at least be a little bit of apathetic at some point. The fact is that the following has also been very clear: "but as a politician, we can interfere with the governance processes of state property." This is exactly what is strongly resisting, and I think that the current law on the Slovenian State Holding and the principles of the OECD Recommendation are, in spite of all things, I see them with other eyes, like some Members of this National Assembly, that this is exactly what they should have taken into account. And the fact is that policy, regardless of whether it is an executive or a legislative branch of government, ends up in the management of state property, speaking of SDH at a point called the State Property Management Strategy, speaking of content itself. Indeed, there is another matter that we can say that politics can be involved, but not in individual cases, as some debaters have specified before me with cases, it is right to point out this, but this is not the matter of this national assembly. This is the matter of that branch of power which must be responsible – my words have been many times and will most likely also be expressed – even the executive branch of power must act as responsible owner in the management processes. But without the fact that politics is always able to influence specific cases or to resolve the string and the length of time — what was said to be given that power in this national assembly. I do not rule out in the future or in the future that these processes can also change anything, but the fact is that corporate governance processes apply both to the private sector and to the social sector, that is, you have governance authorities and the owner is the one who should intervene when he sees that they are derogations, not just because the power position is called politics. To put an end to this, because many times, at least my predecessor used the term privatisation. I must admit that this bothers me, because the Slovenian State Holding Act does not speak of privatisation. Article 1 makes it very clear when it says that the Slovenian State Holding Institution is an institution or institution that manages investments. There's no talk here about any privatisation. But it's true that we have to be aware of something. When certain investments, claims or property are managed, this means selling or selling claims or selling equity. We must also be aware of two things in this national assembly, and I think that there is a lot of cover-up or political representation through political rhetoric for citizens and citizens. The fact is, if part of the management relates to sales, then it is right, let's be clear, the purchase is the one that is important for the share of sales. And we need to decide whether the purchase is enough or whether we want anything else besides the purchase that happens in normal business events. If we are here on legal persons, it is certainly an interest to obtain a buyer who will take care of further production, new products, keeping the number of employees, rather than increasing the number of employees. It is true that we know such cases under the “socially responsible customer”, but we must also face whether such buyers in the Slovenian or wider market are sufficient to be able to touch each other and only to have or obtain such a buyer. Well, that's a story for other things. If I touch the contents myself. I would like to reiterate once again that, with regard to the management of state property – and those who are a little monitoring this area – the OECD recommendations warn the Republic of Slovenia that they are not in line with the European Commission's expectations of monitoring the so-called corporate governance in individual Member States. I think that we must be aware as a member of the European Union that we must follow such cases. It is therefore right that we sometimes have a slow touch on the debate, but not to ignore the importance of such institutions. What I'd like to point out is something. The Slovenian State Holding Act was very clear in Article 1, paragraph 1, and this also applies: "The purpose of this Act is to separate the function of the State as the owner of capital investments from other functions of the State." I don't think we can tell what that means. As regards the comment relating to the final amendment on the allocation of powers to the National Assembly regarding the appointment. I must admit that I have listened very carefully to whether any of the debaters will also touch on the opinion given by the Legislative and Legal Service, which was also presented on the home committee in this regard. And I'm going to allow it here, because obviously political rhetoric is one thing, but the content is another, and I'm going to allow myself to read these few sentences. The Legislative and Legal Service wrote: "The National Assembly will not be able to apply the rules of procedure to the decision to recall SDH members on its own initiative. Since it is not clear by what procedure the National Assembly will be able to call the members of the SDH Supervisory Board on its own initiative, the proposed solution should be considered in terms of the principle of legal certainty, which requires that the provisions of the law are clear, specific and unambiguous," reference is made to Article 2 of the Constitution. "In this regard, however, the question arises whether the National Assembly will be able to determine whether, in relation to the management arrangements of SDH and the Companies Act, which are subsidised, the existence of grounds for recall should be re-examined and whether the proposed solution is feasible." End of quote. In this regard, I must admit that I expected the proposer of this law to provide a slightly more explanation for what is related to the finding of the Legal and Legislative Service. I believe that many of the Members will say, yes, sometimes you have a legislative opinion, but not another. I also agree with this that the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is not binding on us, but in a binding context with the OECD recommendations, in a binding context with the accreditation of the Republic of Slovenia and the expectations and warnings of the same European institutions, I assess that this opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is very on the spot. That is why I am giving this explanation primarily to those who, in a certain direction, in the debate today as well as on the parental committees, have estimated that we have some double vats. It's over. It is my opinion that the Government is directly responsible for meeting the objectives of the State Property Management Strategy adopted by the National Assembly, despite the fact that it has transferred or delegated operational competence to the Slovenian State Holding to achieve these objectives. I therefore believe that it is the primary duty of the Government to closely monitor the work of the Slovenian State Holding and, if it considers that it deviates from the strategy or that individual cases do not comply with the principles of corporate governance, it is also appropriate to take action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with Mr Weber's debate, I also give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We're not going to chronologically explain again how, I agree, this victory you've got on your table today has arisen. But the SMC, Desus and Social Democrats are responsible for this victory. This is the result of working you in this National Assembly. This victory came at the hands of the coalition. That's a fact. And in the second reading you supported him, now you've obviously found in the middle that he's a winner, and you don't support him anymore. It is therefore a great deal of transposition today to take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is prepared for the basic law, which was good, which would ensure transparency, which would provide the National Assembly with an opportunity to act if the Government does not act, that is a great deal of deceiving not to say anything else. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that the procedure was not regulated, an amendment was already tabled in the second reading which regulates the procedure and was rejected by the coalition which led the law to this drawback. It's a lot of gibberish, but it's a lot higher! The rudeness in this National Assembly should not be. And even today, dear colleagues, you have an amendment on the table that carefully regulates the procedure for proposing the discharge of the Supervisory Board. I'll read it. “The proposal of the National Assembly shall be considered a proposal which clearly explains which condition for discharge is met and submitted by at least ten members of the National Assembly. Pending a proposal immediately submitted by the President of the National Assembly to all Members and the Government, the Government must, within a period of not less than fifteen days and not more than 30 days, provide a written definition and a definition to the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Board at its first next meeting when all conditions are met in accordance with this Article." Is it specified or not specified? Should all stages of the adoption of the law be monitored? Do not read the opinion prepared in the first phase of phase three. I mean, it's that I won't be extremely rude to us sitting here, and extremely irresponsible to those who are watching the meeting. [[...]] Yes, once again, for this victory you have on your desk today, give your colleagues in the coalition a nice hand and tell us why this victory has occurred. Apparently, the management of state property is the last thing you think you should do. Unfortunately. In six months, it will be too late for certain changes and certain things.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Bratusek. I give the floor to Mr Janko Webra, to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Tillen Bozič. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to correct the proposaler or the representative of the applicants as to what was going on in the second reading of this law. What generalises is that SMC and Social Democrats and Desus have caused this confusion at second reading. So I myself have been at a meeting of my mother's working body as a representative of the Social Democrats, and I myself have voted in favour of the amendment prepared by the proposer to define the discharge procedure for the members of the Supervisory Council by the National Assembly. So I voted in favour. I also said this in my presentation on the position of the Group of Members, so I propose not to generalise what has happened in this process of adopting the Amendment and Supplementing the Slovenian State Holding Act. In this difficult subject, it is very important that we really clear as much as possible all the issues that need to be addressed here. And the fact is, even when the applicant introduced this law into the procedure, he probably had no information that the Government would submit to the National Assembly a law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism. According to Article 1 of this proposal by the proposer, the Slovenian State holding company must specify the extent and criteria of the buyer's ownership in the investment management policy referred to in Article 31 of the Slovenian State Holding Act for investment management procedures. This article leaves it to the Slovenian State Holding Company to establish in its own internal act the criteria for checking the origin of the capital or where the buyer received the money and the origin of this money for the purchase of state investments. If we look at the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Prevention of the Financing of Terrorism, this law clearly defines that we have a body, namely the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering in the State, as the supervisory authority. If we adopt this law as it is written today and Article 1 cannot be amended, then we will again make another exception in the Slovenian State Holding, which will not be included in the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Prevention of Financing of Terrorism. And this is the danger that exists, and if the National Assembly adopts this law today, it will have no face, if I may say so, that when considering the Money Laundering Act it will then require that the Slovenian State Holding be included in the debtors to verify the selection of capital and, as a result, financing of terrorism may also be possible. However, if the Slovenian state holding company is not included in this law, we will have a real primacy in which the source of capital is checked, but not in 12 billion assets. And this is exactly the property that is being transformed or transferred, as it is written in the directive itself, which has also joined the drafting of this new law. What I would like to point out today is that the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out in its opinion in this law on money laundering that all the provisions of the Directive are not included in this law. And nothing will help us, even if we are able to resolve an individual member of the supervisory holding company if this holding company forms its internal acts, on the basis of which neither the National Assembly nor the Anti-Money Laundering Office will be able to determine whether or not it is a violation of the legislation or not to implement those provisions as it should be under this law, but also under the European Directive. And this is a key reason why, in my opinion, there is greater damage if we adopt this law today, and we commit ourselves to the fact that the Slovenian State Holding is not committed to examining whether the capital that buys our companies is of suspicious origin. And the proposer himself also went to amend this law for this very reason to a great extent. But, I stress, at the time, maybe the proposer can correct me, and he didn't have this information that this law was coming into procedure. Today we have this information. And if we overlook this important fact, then we take a very heavy responsibility, why we have legislated the exception that the Slovenian State Holding Company itself governs this area and is not subject to the supervision of the Office, is not subordinate, for example, to the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, is not subordinated to the European Commission, which must be reported under this law in all these cases. The capital that comes as a buyer for Slovenian companies comes from abroad from tax havens, this has already been clearly presented today. And if we do not conclude this chain not only within the country, but within the rest of the EU as well as other countries that contain and include this directive, then we break this chain. However, the key issue is to prevent our most important assets from being purchased to the capital of suspicious origin, whether it is made at home or produced abroad. We have recently considered the report of the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency. And what did we find? Despite the fact that Croatian Agris has a limit on 10% of the purchase of Save Re, it violated this regulation, and there were larger shares. And what happened? In fact, the agency gave some kind of warning for this. None of this agency went to check on the source of the capital. And only by involving the Slovenian State Holding in this process will this agency have to take this into account. So it is likely that if we had the time, as well as the team, to review all the legislation in this area, we would certainly find it surprising that the National Assembly did not have the right information when it adopted a single law, and that much is being done precisely to ensure that the capital of suspicious origin buys our most important assets. This task is probably still ahead of us, but part of it can be solved if we include holding in this law on money laundering prevention and terrorist financing. And that's the basic reason why it wouldn't be good to adopt the law that we're dealing with today - because let's legislate this exception. In addition, we have taken the proposal to extend the composition of the Supervisory Council. Finally, it is the property of the people managed by this holding company, but people do not have the ability to design business policies or control the business of the holding company. We have therefore also drawn up a proposal to ensure public participation in changing capital investment management strategies. The supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding Board shall be extended to 10 members in accordance with the principle of equal representation of capital and labour. This includes the union and also representatives of the younger and older generation. And when we are with representatives of the younger and older generation, it is the demographic fund that is enshrined in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act that we must establish it in Slovenia. And this law will have to further regulate how we manage our assets, so that we do not follow short-term targets such as sales, but to pursue a long-term objective such as the provision of pension funds to which young people must receive them. Therefore, young people must also be involved in this control process of the Slovenian State holding company. And this is our proposal, which, of course, we will also try to design in the legal form and to put it both in coordination with the coalition, as well as also, of course, in verification to the general public, and to try to reach an agreement to do so. But I stress that if we adopt this law today, we commit ourselves to the fact that SDH is a party to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. You can't miss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u129	The text is requested by the representative of the proposer, Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you very much. My colleague Weber, when I listened to you, I had the feeling that this explanation was most intended to convince yourself what that reason was for you to press the button against today. The first article, which speaks of buyers being known, is how you, a coalition, brought them into law. Coalition. Our proposal was different. You told SDH to set its own criteria. I mean, it's really hard for me to listen to the arguments you're making today. The law, which was prepared, was designed to increase transparency in the management of state property. Okay, you're up against it. Okay, that's your legitimate right. You're against it, but people should know. Not one thing to talk about, but one thing to do. And it is not true that if we adopt this law today, then the law that we begin to discuss next week – and by the way, at this point, SDH is excluded from the Law on Money Laundering Prevention. There you will surely find 500 and more reasons why Slovenian State Holding cannot be part of that law. Today is the solution on the table, always and everywhere you put things and solutions into the future. Today is the problem, today you, the coalition, including the Social Democrats, including Desus, would not have done such nonsense without your voices, that is a fact. That's a fact. You can say a hundred times that you voted "against" on the committee, but the coalition has adopted such a victory as we have before us today on the committee. That's a fact. And by the way, you can't run. However, I ask that we do not deceive Members and even fewer people to make any exception by adopting this law. You have already passed countless laws, one after the other, and you accept even those that relate to laws that are not yet in force, there is no problem. Let us be fair, let us be honest; but the coalition does not want the management of state property to be regulated in a transparent and transparent way, that you do not want the owners to know that you do not want the National Assembly to act if the Government does not act, and that you do not want to receive certain information. That's a fact. That's a fact!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u131	Janko Weber, replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I have to replicate the performance of Mrs. Alenka Bratusek. I don't convince myself. My conviction regarding capital investment management has been crystal clear all the time; I opposed the 15 companies' sale decision, SDH and also the Capital Investment Management Strategy is bad. I have a perfectly clear view of this all the time. But Mrs. Alenka Bratušek, you have proposed a decision to the National Assembly on the sale of 15 companies. When the elections were held, you, as Prime Minister of the Government, stopped this procedure to come to the National Assembly. When you made it to the National Assembly, it relaxed. And now at some point we're probably going to get another proposal to stop the sale of these 15 companies, so be, I'd say, really dosed when you tell anyone how it works. With regard to my attitude towards this; I have a very clear view of what is going on with this property, and I reiterate, unless we reach along with the opposition to include the Slovenian State Holding in the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, we have done nothing. If we achieve this, things will start to happen in Slovenia substantially differently than they are now. Today he does not answer – which supervisor was responsible, say, for any decision or for the president of the administration? You get rid of him, he gets a rich reward. Is that a system? However, if we include it in this story, that it is also controlled by this law and also by the directive, and that the European Commission is informed of this, this relationship will be different. Last but not least, as we monitor the appointment of supervisors in the New Ljubljana Bank, it is stuck in that provision when the European Central Bank had to give its consent to the candidate. We have not received any information as to whether this opinion would be negative or not, but the influence of this institution has obviously been on who will be appointed. We can't miss this at Holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u133	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u134	A lot of things have been missing in the last two years. After all, this law could have been passed if there had not been amendments by the coalition, substantially earlier, but you chose another path. We led to where we are, of course, you did not define yourself to the supervisors – in fact, only the overseers are still talking about this law today because you were sweeping everything else out. But, however, we can once again warn, speak, convene sessions, the responsibility is yours. The responsibility lies with SMC, Desus and Social Democrats, whether it be with or without Mr Webro. As for the decision of 15 companies; yes, my government has drawn up a decision for 15 companies, your government, Mr Weber, has prepared it for 46 companies. 46 companies are foreseen for sale! If we speak, let's be correct. That's all I think is fair. Not fooling people, not deceiving Members and Members. It is the responsibility of this government to regulate the management of state property, which is as catastrophic as it has ever been in our country. Once again, I can tell you the case of Adrie Airways, which you sold, once again, SMC, Desus and SD for 100,000 euros. For a hundred thousand companies that have a seat, it's said, at a shopping center in Munich! 18 employees, 26,000 euro capital! These are the partners you find for our companies! We don't know who owns this 4K Investment miracle company. These are the facts. Everything else today — the beauty of how the next week will be different, how I don’t know how it will ever be different, and that’s gibberish and beautifying. It's too bad you don't realize we're really gonna lose everything overnight. Once again, I can't warn myself more than I can. You are the one who make up the majority of this national council, and you are the one responsible for the state and also for what is happening to our state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and as the last mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Of course, it is right to talk about such an important topic as governance of state property. However, I am somewhat disturbed by the fact that, from moment to moment, too critical a debate or a debate is full of accusations and views. Oh, yeah. I think it's going to be a fundamental error or a starting point for those 15 companies, or a list of 15 companies, which was, in fact, a list of "from the hills, from the bottom", but I can't find a more appropriate term without some criteria, without some criteria, without some calculation behind, what we really want by selling or, if you want, selling it. However, few, if not fundamentally, have changed, of course, these 15 companies have expanded – yes, to a number of companies, some of which were clearly part of the strategic investment segment, some of which were important and some portfolio investments. With the strategy that we have adopted and in which companies are ranked, as I have stated, the strategy is, of course, capital investment management, if you want. It is not primarily or simply a sale, sale, sale, however you wish, but a management, nobility of state property in the interest of once, once, not in the distant future, but at the beginning of 2017 to revive the reserve demographic fund. I firmly believe that the interest of all of us is prudent, thoughtful, intelligent management of state property. There is no way in which I can accept the criticism or the obvious that Members of Parliament, myself personally, or Members of Desus, or Members of the ruling coalition, may have had some interest in the fact that some sales in the past have not gone in the right direction. That's a fact. But what interests can we have here? The mandate of Members should be taken into account. The task of Members is to adopt such legislation, i.e. such laws, which will give some emissaries, which will allow us to talk specifically about the management of capital investments or state property, prudently, economically justified governance. Of course, this is not the only criteria, the economic criteria are not the only, but there are also criteria for maintaining or increasing the number of employees, new jobs, the importance of strategicity, investing in our companies, not some hateful acquisitions and closing down of individual activities on our soil. This marriage proposal Okay, the word victory is a little excessive for my taste, a little too rough. [[…]] In fact, through logic, to release it through the first reading, we will correct it a little bit in the second reading, and in the third reading we made it super - simple, not only in this proposal of the regulation, but with some, I will stay with that word, it has already turned out that this path was not the right one. I apologize for the very simplistic comparison, you know, from the fichot through some modifications, through some changes, through some repairs you just can't make a Mercedes. And I'm not saying that this marriage was a fiche at first, but in the end it was what it was. I would be very happy that, in the future, when any proposals come to the table, that we may first sever the species, that perhaps sooner the applicant will come to us to present the matter, at any point at a stage when the text is not yet definitive, when the matter is not yet put into the procedure, that we may change it in some way and then it will be much easier, much faster and more effective to adopt individual legislation. In the future. I firmly believe that it is time to settle this matter in a law that we will deal with next week has a long title and is called the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. I am convinced that it is Article 4 that SDH is also one of the debtors. We have heard about the assets he manages, but it is not necessarily 12 billion, if we just sell them out like that, that it may be less if we don’t make them noble, or if we don’t sell them mentally — the emphasis is on a tiny piece. If, in Article 4, as debtors of a bank, branches of banks, savings banks, payment institutions and other institutions, post office, stockbrokers – I will not mention because it is non-relationship, you can read it yourself, although the law is quite thick – and I think that these two institutions I have listed, SDH and the so-called bad bank, have at least the meaning and role of all the other institutions that are in here. This does not mean any foreign country, does not mean a change of any system, nor does it mean anything new for the Anti-Money Laundering Office, but it means that up to the last chick, up to the last euro or hundreds of euros, the ownership and origin of the capital of potential buyers may be checked. In this way, there will be no great need for the day-to-day involvement of politics, the National Assembly, some Members, some individuals involved. I think this is a suitable solution for the future. All the way to the end. Of course, this is a solution. In the future, it is likely that some of the things in the SDH Law will have to be changed, which stakeholders will be invited, not invited, to legislate that they will be able to do in the supervisory world – which is probably right, although at the final stage I would not want them to be supervisors for the entire bus, because then the matter will be quite inoperable – but that they have older ones, but also younger ones, of course, some role in saying something. Last but not least, it is the management of once-social property that this generation, which has now retired, managed and created that we have what we have. That, of course, is the right thing to do. I want to say that in the future we will probably also meet with USDH modifications and, of course, as a concrete solution, that it will not only be criticism, which is on my side all the time, I hope that, at some real dose, there will be not only criticism but also concrete solutions, as stated – to be written in the Money Laundering Act. Just for the end of it. I would not like to, and also in Desus we have this opinion that, by overlying legislation or by writing down such and different parishes in that, one, the third law, of course, we will not come to an end and not just and exclusively just legislation, but we must also be aware that all those who will be appointed to the governing bodies, either to the management of SDH or to the supervisory board of SDH, should simply stop some slightly more stringent criteria as to integrity as regards expertise as regards some past experiences. But in the end, if there's no honesty or responsibility here, we're not going to do anything. But if someone commits a crime, it is not only moral but also criminal and, of course, reparation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Magistrate Alenka Bratušek, representative of the proposer, please. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u138	It's really hard to make a Mercedes out of a fichot. But you managed to make a motorbike in this process of fichot. But maybe it's still better with a motorcycle to the finish line than on foot. Maybe it's still better and faster. Today you suggest we walk. And just as we heard in the second reading that the resolution process is not arranged for you to break it all if you knew how, today, you have an orderly procedure on the table, an orderly procedure, as it is arranged in the Minister's interpretation, but today you have turned the board and today there is a sidder in here preventing money laundering – the Law on Money Laundering Prevention. It is good that this procedure will end with this law today, because I think that in the end, I don't know, space technology would be dealt with in this law. It is irresponsible, irresponsible, that you do not realize that something is seriously wrong with the management of state property. That's all I can say. We're warning you, the caravan is moving on. You're on this caravan together: SMC, Desus and SD. Once the property's gone, you'll have nothing to settle. Too bad you don't find out in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u139	The last word is Master Marko Pogačnik in this regular part. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u140	President, thank you for your word. I'm going to express myself a little bit plastic, but now that I'm listening to the coalition MPs and the MPs of the modern centre, Desus and SD, I think you've missed your profession. I think you should be witches, and I'm sure David Copperfield could learn something from you. For if the sorcerers pull the rabbit out of the hat, you today have drawn the Money Laundering Act in this law. I mean, that's really amazing! I think you'd be jealous of David Copperfield. And you've got good magic counselors, and you've got fog mixing, because that's really amazing. It is a pity that the general public cannot look back at what you have said about the management of state property before the elections, what the President of the Government has explained to the Slovenian people before the elections and how the matter will be managed. But you're doing 180 degrees differently; 180 degrees otherwise you're working, respectable coalition! Take a look at the magnetograms from the financial meetings and the monetary policy. But today you pulled a new bunny out and you said, and now we have a new marriage, and we're going to solve this in a new marriage. I wonder what your discussion will be next week when we have this marriage on the table. I wonder what yours will be and what bunny you'll pull out of there! But I'd say you're not running out of your imagination. But you're creative here, and that's for sure. But your creativity costs taxpayers in Slovenia dearly, costs Slovenian companies run by the state or SDH or the government of Mir Cerar. That's very nice. Dear Mr Prikl, you are explaining investment in state-owned enterprises. Tell me how much money the country has invested in an individual company in the last two years, whether there's been any recapitalisation or anything. Nothing! However, these companies are being exhausted by the country. You come to each Assembly of the State Enterprise and ask for a higher dividend to fill the budget. However, in the budget, wages for public servants are 5% higher. In August, you freeze the state budget for budget users. That's an amazing idea. To speak then, Sir Prikl, that those 15 companies did not have the criteria, did not have it; indeed, but those were the words of the Slovenian Democratic Party when this package came to the National Assembly. Desus supported this, and the SD also supported it. Get real here, come on! Today we have one proposal and the victory of this law, as I have expressed it in my position, is the result of the work of the SMC, Desus and Social Democrats coalition because you were wrong about the vote. You made a mistake, you missed, some of your Members slept, and it pressed the key, as usual, because probably the expert services didn't write you how to vote. Have you had any discussions in the National Assembly today, in the last two years, that experts might not write you anything? The four members of the coalition can be discussed here and the others have reading exercises, and there are usually problems here. I mean, I don't know where this is going. [[…]] Look at the magnetograms of what you said before the elections and everything you'll do about the management of state property. That we have such a debate today that 80% of your debate is going in a different direction, not focusing on what we have on the table today. You're in the control world now, I'd say, you've figured out a new term; you're older. The older and younger generation began to appear today that they must be in the control world. Well, I hope someone, I think they're listening to you, because they're the kind of pumpkins you're making here today, and that's really amazing. The new term: the younger and older generation will be in the control world. This has now come from two coalition parties. But we still have SDH, which has temporary leadership. We're ahead of the biggest privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, but you don't want to touch that. You chose the supervisors yourself, you chose the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding, the management of the Slovenian State Holding Board chose the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank. Earlier here, a fellow SMC Member spoke about responsibility — yes, responsibility — and compared state and private ownership. Look, I really don't know one private owner who would appoint some important institutions into the supervisory board who don't meet the basic conditions. And that was well - known before the congregation was convened. And to hide; you hid the supervisors. But you talked about transparency before the elections and everything. You hid them, five minutes before the assembly were the names. As now, the Minister of Finance is hiding the names of the state secretaries, the closest co-workers. I think that either this amendment that the proposer has put in place is supported, and I don't think it's being reached here to say that there would be a conflict of interest. The fact is that the National Assembly appoints the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding on a proposal from the Government and I am sure that the National Assembly should also have an instrument of recall. If it's called something, he can call it off. I would also say that you do not read this matter carefully enough — whether you don’t want to or don’t understand it, should you explain it to yourself individually — but the National Assembly calls off the overseers under the same conditions as the Government can. I think there was an effort here in 2012 when Janša's government, together with the opposition, prepared this law — along with the opposition! A party of the modern centre, Desus, and the Social Democrats, the government of Mir Cerar – never! Not even in a single marriage has she said whether we will form this law together or make a joint working group. Never, never, though you always call the opposition. I think we're talking about serious things here. We are talking about some 12 billion euros in governance and I am surprised, indeed, but after two years, I think that the masks have fallen now, probably back to the way in which the government and the leadership of the national assembly and all the institutions for which they are subjected will go. In the second reading of this law, my proposal was that we try to make a new law with amendments and additions, because the fact is that this law is a win-win and is not useful today because of the coalition. First of all, I do not know, the debate on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the second reading, I am sure that it was okay and through the debate that, I would say, some meaningful proposals have been formulated or that both the coalition and the opposition are likely to know where the weak points of this law, which is now in force, and what needs to be rectified in order to improve the governance of state property. My colleague Weber pointed out that it was urgent for Adris to check the source of the money. Dear Mr Weber, Adris Group sold its tobacco factory Rovinj for 505 million euros. And now you're going to check the source of the money in this company. I think you should check the source of the money when you buy, say, Adrie Airways, and where does it go? But no, you open a new front, because you know you've hooked up somewhere, and now you need that smoke to get on the case so that one thing doesn't get up. However, we should go in the other direction, in the event that Adris did indeed have some illegal stock package, then the ATVP must act and the AZNP must withdraw the voting right. That's the right way. The State Property Management Strategy as well. What will you do if today's takeover offer for the Triglav Insurance Company comes or if the takeover bid for the Sava reinsurance company comes? This is not what the strategy foresees. But then I don't know which rabbits you'll be pulling out of your hats. But I really want to know what your debate is going to be like on Wednesday, when we're going to discuss so many of the Money Laundering Act mentioned today. I will personally support this amendment. I see this amendment as a positive part, and in particular, if the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition were to do soy work, this amendment would not be necessary. The Government would already propose to the National Assembly to recall at least two members of the Supervisory Board. At least two members! But since the government of Mira Cerar, the SMC coalition, Desus and SD do not carry out their tasks, then the opposition is convinced to exercise, as far as possible, into their own hands and to prevent the worst that can happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you, too. Allow me, first a replica of Uroša Pikla and then the word of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you very much. That's a negative surprise, Marko, especially those reading exercises. To give us reading exercises doesn't belong in your range. We're doing our best to read some stuff, what kind of thing to say. I think I've got a lot on my mind, so even if we're completely honest, I climb a little bit sometimes, and then somehow I come back, but of course I'm trying to discuss it as best I can. In a way it's nice to compare me to David Copperfield, but if you had at least a fraction of his abilities, you would have made this hat or a magic wand as follows: you wouldn't be "stop booking" for sale, "stop booking" for privatisation, you wouldn't have sold any more companies, even though some of them, maybe even in some way justified criticism, that there's too much state property, but you wouldn't have just sold it, because with that magic wand you would have pulled a few billion out of the plan, paid off all the debts, increased social transfers, pensions and so on. But this is "mission impossible", the mission is impossible, so I have to manage wisely what we have and not sell out. In doing so, of course, we adhere to the legislation. Some criticisms — my colleague Webro and I are not on duty as a lawyer, but we are still a few years away from the governments, which have fallen out of their hands, but are trying to influence them to the best of their ability that something like this will never happen again. Just in conclusion; I'm not quite sure at this point, I see the Money Laundering Prevention Act, that somehow this moment is the best solution, now if it's the law x or the law y, I'll be happy, but it's essential – because it's not at the end stage essential, whether we write it in this or another law. If we write this in the Constitution, this is a pretentious claim, but we cannot write it in the Constitution, although we write a lot of things down, a lot is written, but it is also a matter of interpretation of how we do it, that we are a social state and so on. In any law, in any regulation, I believe that this will not be a legal act, but above all, how people who have been called upon to do so will hold onto it and do so, which is essential and of course we must strive to do so. However, I believe this is quite the conclusion, but I believe it is in the interest of all of us to enable citizens and citizens to live better; this can only be made possible in a way that we will not sell, sell for unnecessary and mentally manage it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u144	Before I conclude again what our goal was, the goal of the applicants, I must touch on what my colleague was just talking about. The fact is that Desus has this magic wand; Desus provides 46 votes to this coalition, and if you really think what you're saying, you could do it. You know a lot of things, and you could probably do that. And the governments that crawl out of their hands. In all of these governments since 2002, Desus, it is said, has also slipped out of hand with Desus. And it's not just your pluses, but, of course, those minuses or the mistakes that governments make. That's what Desus is going to have to give, and he's already on his shoulders. That's why I keep stressing that it's not a word, but it's actions that change things. I hope or believe that people will judge you after that. The purpose of the law before you today was indeed to ensure more transparent management of state property, to prevent the things that are happening today at the Slovenian State Holding. I have learned from the implementations that many do not agree, but actions will show otherwise. If we don't want to, you don't want to, you don't want to make sure we know who our companies are selling to – we can't do anything! If you do not want data from the Slovenian state holding company, what is happening to this property – indeed we cannot do more than propose. And lastly, if, in accordance with the law where the criteria and criteria are laid down, the Government does not act in the event of irregularities in the Slovenian State holding company, this task is to give or have the power to give to the National Assembly, which also appoints the Supervisory Council, then I do not understand what transparent governance of state property is for you. The marriage was prepared with serious and sincere purposes, and in the first reading you clearly felt this seriousness and honesty, then, I don't know under what influence and why you changed the law as you changed it. We can still solve at least one piece of this with our amendment, but if I have correctly understood your day-to-day or two-hour implementation, you are actually opposed to the basic idea of the law, so this law will not be adopted today. That's too bad. It is a pity that you do not find that there is something very wrong with the management of state property and that you are all guilty and responsible; all those who sit in the coalition are not only one, but all. As long as you let this happen, it will happen, unfortunately. Then I'll talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate on the draft law in its entirety, in which you will get the word of a representative of the Government as the first mag. Miranda Groff Ferjančič, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Allow me once again to emphasise that the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act provides for independent management of state property by law and other acts. This means that the management function is consistently separate from the regulatory function, which has been the eternal observation of various missions from the World Bank to the OECD and the European Commission in Slovenia. They responded to the proposed amendment of the law both to the European Commission and to the OECD and assessed it as, if not already disputed, at least an unusual solution as proposed. If the State property is indeed so badly managed, I would like to point out Article 68 of the current Law on the Slovenian State Holding, which provides that members of the SDH management and control authorities shall, with all their assets, jointly indemnify the Republic of Slovenia for the damage caused by their exercise of the rights of shareholders or shareholders in companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia, unless they prove that they have acted with due diligence in accordance with the first paragraph of this Article and fully comply with the laws, internal acts of the company and management acts. The next thing I would like to explain is that the guidelines for corporate governance, as prepared by the OECD, relate to the management of state-owned enterprises. They're referring to State-owned Enterprises. The Supervisory Board is professionally managed in the Slovenian State Holding. This year we will be able to monitor for the first time whether SDH achieves the objectives set by the strategy and the annual management plan. This will also provide us with criteria for whether the management of state-owned enterprises is successful or not. Allow me to explain my position on ownership. SDH, in line with good practice guidelines and management policy, is already carrying out ownership checks of the buyer, which it has also disclosed publicly and explained on its websites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you. Would you like to speak with the representative of the proposer? Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you very much. First of all, I will ask, Mr Vice-President, if the opinion of the OECD and the European Commission are to be given to this specific law. That's the first thing. I would certainly like to read it. And secondly, once again; nothing would change with regard to political involvement or non-involvement. The National Assembly will not interfere in the concrete management of businesses. Today, he appoints the Supervisory Board and nothing would change if he could also propose his release. Anyway, as I said, I can only warn myself. 46 and more votes are cast by the coalition. This is what you do, and you will answer to the electorate and the electorate. I only hope that for the next government, at least something small will be left behind to show how state property really is managed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I propose that we conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. However, we are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament. Representative of the proposer, please. Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u150	No matter what, I haven't given up yet, and that's why I'm going to read this amendment, and then I'm going to explain. Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly shall be implemented in the following way: a proposal shall be considered as a proposal which clearly explains which condition is met and submitted by at least 10 members of the National Assembly. Pending a proposal immediately submitted by the President of the National Assembly to all Members and the Government, the Government must, within a period of not less than 15 days and not more than 30 days, provide a written definition and definition to the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Board at its first next meeting when all conditions are met in accordance with this Article. Once again, dear colleagues and colleagues, I must remind you of the discussion of colleagues from SMC, Desus and SD in the second reading. Their main appeal was that the discharge procedure was not regulated. With this amendment, the process of discharge of the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding Board is carefully regulated. If we remembered our words from the previous meeting, there would be no problem today, because the entire coalition would simply support this arrangement. We have drawn attention to the interpretation that is regulated in the Rules of Procedure: 10 Members may propose the Minister's interpretation. I think that if 10 Members are enough to interpret the Minister, it should also be enough to propose the dismissal of members, one or more, of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. The conditions that must be met in order to be able to propose this at all are enshrined in the law. Such empty words that every day these suggestions will be repeated, of course they do not hold and are drawn to the hair just to move things a little bit. However, those who want this process to be settled and this is the only reason that you have had doubts in previous reading, this thought is removed, the procedure is carefully regulated and I suggest that you reconsider and at least in this part of the law we amend. As for ownership, as you said in the coalition above all, next week we will deal with the Money Laundering Prevention Act and try to resolve matters there. Perhaps all together another thought if you are satisfied with the way you deal with government property. Of course, all these words about involving policy in governance, I agree, are attracted to hair. As long as they're state-owned, the government will be responsible. Now, do you say responsible or get involved - however you want. But you have to, you have to, you have to! I shouldn't be where she is, it's in the appointment of the Presidents of the boards of Darsa and Luke Koper, and I shouldn't be there, but I should be in the competence of the supervisory board, and it's not there. So don't lecture us about the clear limits to whose jurisdiction it is. This amendment clearly regulates the jurisdiction of the National Assembly: if it is the jurisdiction of the National Assembly — and it is — to appoint a Supervisory Council, then it is logical that this Supervisory Council can also resolve what it can do. The only difference is that today, on a proposal from the Government, we propose that in addition to the Government, this power is vested in the National Assembly. And the other thing is, nothing changes. Nothing more political and no less political.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u151	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Gradually, Master Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u152	Mr President, I propose that the meeting be suspended in 15 minutes, and I call on the Secretary of State to present the opinion of the OECD to the Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament and the European Commission, as it has now called twice on them to oppose the proposed solution to this amendment. He says that the National Assembly, ten Members, has the opportunity to propose the recall of the Supervisory Council. Now, Madam Secretary of State, if you are so citing that this opinion by the OECD is negative, or that it is contrary to the guidelines of both the OECD and the European Commission to present this opinion to Members and Members, so that we can then take a decision in the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u153	I will first reject your procedural proposal, but I will give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Finance, Miranda Groff Ferjančič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. We were asked about the proposed amendments by the European Commission, which completed the mission in the Republic of Slovenia last week.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u155	Apparently it's an oral response. It wasn't a written document. That's what's coming out. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Madam proposer, Master Alenka Bratušek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u156	That's a nice summary, Mr. President. The OECD has now been released at this stage. If I understood the Secretary of State correctly, she said, "The European Commission has asked about the amendments tabled." There was no talk of definition. If you are talking about the definition of the OECD and the European Commission, this must exist. If not, the government's representatives allow themselves very much. We know who the representatives of the European Commission are, and we know who the representatives of the OECD are. I insist — or should the Secretary of State take the word back — that the two institutions give us the opinion. If you just decide to reject this and the procedural proposal – I don't know, probably as chairman – I suppose you have this competence – but this can be crucial for decision-making in this process. And so, with your left hand, you swing and by the way – I will reject this procedural proposal. Great! We really are working democratically in the National Assembly. Let's clear up what's going on here, figure out what someone meant, what someone said, or maybe what someone wrote. But we can't just talk about it at home, but we can't do it with institutions if they haven't actually done it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u157	Another procedural one, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u158	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Please explain to me, Madam President, I'm telling you, if you can listen and take these three minutes, well. [[…]] You rejected my proposal for no reason. The day was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and please, if you can give me any reason on which article of the Rules of Procedure you rejected my proposal and for what reasons. Secondly, I think the Secretary of State has now begun to speak with a reserve. If the two referees had little discussion there at the luncheon of the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission that this was not the best, this is not the opinion of the European Commission or the OECD. You referred to both institutions, both the OECD and the European Commission. We know that when this law was passed, the OECD's written opinion on the proposed law was given. I am now speaking for the time of the government's term of office, Janez Janša. It would be interesting to hear the President of the Government, but when she went to amend the Slovenian State Holding Act in step two, a written opinion was given to the OECD and the European Commission. However, the fact is that the European Commission has repeatedly warned Slovenia that the management of state property must become more effective. Dear Secretary of State, you have applied twice today and have used twice the argument that the opinion of the OECD and the European Commission regarding the proposed article is negative. Therefore, once again, Mr President, I propose a 15-minute suspension of the meeting that the Government or the Ministry of Finance submit a written opinion to Members and Members, because the opinion may be in writing, the OECD and the European Commission, which says that this amendment does not comply with the OECD and European Commission guidelines on the management of state assets and the recall of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u159	The procedural proposal requires a procedural response. It follows from what was later said or said by the Secretary of State that this document is not available. Because of this, if this document is not available, or if, please, before going procedurally forward, we would first allow the Secretary of State to explain again clearly how and what. Because for us to reproduce something that doesn't exist, I don't mean to interrupt. [[advertising from the hall]] So I understand you don't want a substantive debate, you want a procedural debate. Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u160	Mr President, I call on you to conduct the meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and not to mislead Members and Members and the general public. I'm not gonna say that you lied about why you rejected my procedural proposal, but you rejected my procedural proposal before you gave your word to the Secretary of State. Now you said you rejected him because the Secretary of State explained this matter. Why did you say no to me in the first step? Under what article of the Rules of Procedure on the Work of the National Assembly, and for what reasons? Once again, I repeat my procedural proposal that the meeting be suspended in 15 minutes and that the opinion of the OECD and the European Commission be shared with Members and Members. If that is not the opinion, then let the Secretary of State explain it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u161	This is exactly what I suggest that it should first explain nicely that it will be absolutely clear and that I can then make a final decision on the basis of this explanation, whether I will give these 15 minutes or not, which I will not give you for the second time. But of course, as chairman, I have this right to do so. I must decide on your procedural proposal immediately and I have decided on this procedural proposal. But I also saw the secretary of state's hand, so he wants to talk. Well, I connected those two, and that's why I did it. Now you've repeated the second time just to talk about procedural matters instead of substantive matters. Now let me. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Would you have a procedure, too?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u162	I'd have a procedural hearing to give to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u163	That's exactly what I want. Thank you for the procedural proposal, I will respect it. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u164	Thank you very much. In my closing statement, I never used it to obtain in writing. I said that the European Commission and the OECD had pointed out that such a provision would be unusual – controversial or at least unusual. We received this in the course of a commission that took place last week; we were asked about these amendments and they highlighted this in the debate. Likewise, the OECD, and we consulted them as to whether such a provision would be consistent, and we were warned in response, after an oral reply, that it was very 'unusual'. Of course, if this is the case with the National Assembly, I said sorry earlier: disputed or unusual. If the National Assembly adopts such a provision, however, both the European Commission and the OECD are likely to respond in writing, given that they have said that this is controversial or unusual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u165	Is there any other procedure? What kind of content? Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. "Very unusual" is what's going on or how some laws are supposed to be passed to me. I understand that the executive authority is consulting these bodies, after all, we are members of each other, but somehow in the future I would expect from the executive authority, and this is my substantive procedural proposal that before we have any such debates, or these gentlemen get written opinions that are translated into Slovenian after all and in this translation – here we will have another law, here I am looking at the Minister of Environment and Space, I have waved to you, when we have published the ZVO, with five English words that you have interpreted or have not translated, as you should, into Slovenian. We've had too many of these experiences. After all, you know, even to the irresponsible behavior of some of the past governments, when we drilled a bank hole in some way that was directed to us earlier than the middle officials in Brussels. As a Member, I can't make that decision right now. I can make a little decision with my thumb like the wind blows. What you've been talking about, how you've been talking to each other, you know, that's how I can talk to my wife -- or my partner, or my ex-wife -- I don't know, we're on the phone, because I've been hanging out here all day, I don't know what's gonna happen for lunch, what we're gonna do on Saturday, what we're gonna buy the baby for a gift. However, we cannot discuss such serious matters, nor can we discuss the legislative process in this way. You know, I don't fall on my ass, so if I hear the OECD, you guys were on the phone talking. Okay, did you – what? I don't know what vote we're talking about on the phone from Prlecia, and it's more important to us than to the OECD. I don't mean to be overly populism here, but it kind of points to something so lame. My colleague Kordiš, who has just graduated – congratulations – I would like to tell you here an ideological discourse that I will not now, in what position Slovenia appears to be such. This item of the agenda should probably be interrupted, the proposaler should request a written opinion that we will know what we are talking about somehow, because it is time for him to be afraid somehow, I don't know what the OECD is saying, the European Commission is saying what he is saying, he is in a hurry, because then it is time for the gentlemen to arrive and they are in a hurry to get on the plane, and they are half an hour there. And then, if you tell them anything else, it's the end of the world, because I'm rude to the criteria.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u167	Another procedural one. Debate, O.K., debate. Great. Then I ask you to sign up for the debate. She doesn't need a proposal, but others do, and then I'll give my word to you first. The text shall be made available by the representative of the proposers, Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr President, I believe you saw me holding my hand up earlier on a procedural proposal. I hope and I wish you hadn't missed me just because I'm a woman. Now, what's going on with this law today. The opinion of the OECD and the European Commission is at the heart of the whole event. We are talking about 12 billion, which are not the property of the coalition, but are owned by citizens and citizens. Finally, to say that both the OECD and the European Commission are opposed to something that, I am sure, they have not seen at all, because if someone appoints a supervisory council, it is very difficult that institutions oppose that they also propose their resolution. They may object to the fact that the National Assembly is participating in this process at all, but I do not know who would then appoint the Supervisory Board. [[…]] I am interested in the opinion of the European Commission and the OECD on the developments in the New Ljubljana Bank, where you sent people who have been digging a bank hole. I'm sure they had questions about that, too. I am interested in the European Commission's opinion that you stopped the implementation of the budget in mid-August. They must have had questions about that, too. And I could count it. I am interested in the opinion of the European Commission on the increase in wage expenditure. Then let's put all this stuff on the table! Let's put all this stuff on the table, and that's not how government property is managed! However, I, Madam President, am also interested in which article you are so vehemently, without any explanation that the document does not exist, have decided not to interrupt the meeting for 10 minutes, but you simply said that I am here, I know how right and only I can decide that, although I think that in a procedural proposal, if a Member or Member so requests, the National Assembly is voting. I would also like answers to what the representatives of the European Commission and the OECD have said on other matters. If they are already used or used for alibis.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u169	I think you all know the proctor so well that you can judge this, even though this was a debate that contained procedural elements, so I will answer you. Of course, the first article that comes to mind is the first paragraph of Article 282 of the Rules of Procedure, because it is the one who is talking about it. I explained the contents that I saw a secretary of state who wanted to say something and I wanted to give her my word. I'm not going to stop until that word is gone, and from what she said, it turns out there's no document. Therefore, it is not possible to put an end to the matter in order to become familiar with something that does not exist in writing. Since they've both checked in, I also understand, I'm going to give the word first to the one that the computer recognized, and then to the other. The word has a doctor. [[...]] [[background advertising]] No, no, no. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Look, since I have very little time, I have had the opportunity to visit Norway and I have spoken to the secretary of state who deals with their state assets, which is, of course, immeasurably higher, although ours is not negligible, is a poor third of the annual GDP and we cannot discuss these matters in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u171	The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u172	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We are becoming increasingly aware that such a coalition, the government of Mir Cerar and, last but not least, the Ministry of Finance are doing little at home. Look, Mr President, given your two-year experience in the National Assembly, you know how opinions come from the institutions of the European Union. And, Madam Secretary of State, you're not a new face either, you have quite a lot of experience at the Ministry of Finance. And look, if we give, say, a proposal to amend the Banking Act or the Bank of Slovenia Act, we always get a written opinion from the European Central Bank and it is available. But, Madam Secretary of State, you have referred to the opinion, you have said twice today in the microphone that the OECD, the European Commission opposes it. We're supposed to say now, like my buddy Duck said, what we dropped on our ass down here and get scared of it and say that if they say that up there, then the thing doesn't drink water. Dear Secretary of State, I suggest you listen. You need to prepare for the meeting first. There's no way this is going through. If memory doesn't fool me, you've already been on the second reading on the first reading about this little reference to the OECD. But you said they were here this week. Look at the magnetograms, your predecessor Dronja Methods also said, ma OECD, and that's the opposite. This is one of the factions at the Ministry of Finance that you've always used. And once again, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to have your explanation: Who and whom have you spoken with and when have you spoken to at the OECD? At least there must be a record or you're doing everything at home. Who was the person on the OECD and who was the person on the European Commission who said that this was inconsistent with the guidelines? And who was talking to him at the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u173	I'm asking if there's another debate? There's no more debate. Because he doesn't want to talk anymore. [[...]] [[background advertising]] I'll finish the sentence, and then I'll give you a procedural one, because that's some rule that I can finish the sentence. I'm closing the debate on the amendments. You've got a procedure, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u174	On my part, at least five questions have been asked to the Secretary of State, but I think there are also some questions from my previous interlocutors and this. I'm expecting answers. Dear Secretary of State, you are here to answer questions from Members of Parliament and Members! Dear President, I want you to call the Secretary of State to answer to Parliament, otherwise it's a waste of time for you to sit there for three hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u175	How the Government participates in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly, I do not decide in the strategy it adopts at a given point and I will not call on it, because it has every opportunity to express itself. Moreover, this is not a law proposed by the Government. In this case, such a question would make sense and clear [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I say to the end? Then it might make perfect sense, and it would be expected to defend the position of defending that law. But that was now a substantive part of the answer. However, procedurally, for the first time, after the debate has been concluded, this makes no sense; and the debate on this point has been concluded and on the amendment and thus, in fact, the content of this point is no longer. Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u176	Dear President of the National Assembly, Sir Milan, you know whether we know whether we already have a strange situation in European parliamentary democracy, if not a deficit to bring most of the laws to the government's parliament. We could have had a little debate here. We have some practice, in particular, I have so much in mind that ministers are very reluctant to attend the National Assembly at this meeting. You have already warned the Government about this or have already been warned in your role as President of the National Assembly. We have also seen that even state secretaries have not come. It happened even, I remember when Jani, the opposition Member, was away, that there was a lady from the Youth who we had squeezed so hard that she said she was gone, and I don't have the authority to hang them – I don't know, agriculture 14 days ago when there are a couple hundred people on the Youth. I don't know if we're going to change the rules of procedure in two ways, so that we can discuss the agenda on the agenda items – we've come from mopeds to what we had before, Erjavac's weekends, and then we'll have what kind of shoes I have, and then people from the executive branch have to come in and answer. In an almost normal country, where there would still be a medium that would not be a spin, such a person is dead in 24 hours politically. He's not here! They're carrying him! Well, with rhetorical figures, as people from Owl, MI6, and so on, they can say as little as possible, but they have to answer. And I'm asking you to come to some sort of situation. Otherwise, I don't know, let's close the stall. I mean, half the term we have this serious anomaly: people won't walk, they won't answer. [[…]] After you get here, then, I don't know, a Styrian colleague says I have something against her personally. No, no, the minister is looking down here. This is your description of the part and the order to come and answer, of course. And one more thing, Milan, I don't think you've given enough thought to when you've spoken you've basically said now that all the legislative proposals that aren't by the government are something else-, third-rate. [[…]] Oh, my God! Now, I'm not gonna be doing the theater to ask for your resignation, but let's finally start with a serious conscience. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u177	It wasn't procedural, but I'm going to respond substantively. What I have said is essentially the position of the one proposed by the proposal, and this proposal must then be supported by all the documentation and so on. Another point of view or another point relates to the very attitude of the National Assembly, including the European institutions, and does not teach me how to deal with these European institutions. But, of course, to these European institutions, when documents exist – and also documents are not sufficient, matters must also be legally valid so that they can be duly taken into account. We have learned from the Secretary of State that the document does not exist, and on the basis of this basic material condition for the suspension of the meeting, there is no. We take into account, and we will take into account, and it is all that you have said on the record, and it can also be directed to the Secretary of State how to behave next time. I don't think we need anything else. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally first Jan Škoberne, then procedurally [[…]] Jan Schoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me, I hope, a sound and logical procedural proposal that we do not continue to do so today to the point that in the end no one will write doctoral dissertations from what is happening here, because we will slowly get there. Dear Secretary of State, you probably have a phone number from the people you spoke to. Can you please pick up the phone, ask them to confirm to your email that you've talked about this and deliver this to the vote and that we finish the story? But in case you're engaged, we'll all understand. Here in this house, if there's a lot of denials, tell me, maybe we're not exactly specific or we are. But if you are, there must be a note, so please let's put this to a vote and finish this melodrama or whatever we're doing here because I think [[…]] We have one of the most important laws, which we have been muzzling for two years, and at the next item on the agenda, please go to the chimneys of this process – Kafkov or whatever it is. If it's not too hard to pick up the phone and say so, please send me a three-way sermon and we'll all be calm and know what and why. However, if they agree, respected colleagues, the proposaler and the opposition, to deliver this to the vote, we will all be calm, and the President will be able to breathe a little so that he does not explain something that is clear to all of us, until we fail. Excuse me, President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u179	Procedural mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u180	President, thank you for your word. I think someone in this national council is making a fool of themselves. We have a law on the table that directly and indirectly affects EUR 12 billion of Slovenian property, and some explain not to do doctoral dissertations from procedural proposals. Madam President, I think the proposaler has done the right thing here, explained it all, explained it in writing and all, and the state secretary's statement got mixed up. I cannot now ask the proposer about the OECD opinion – in writing to send it to me. The proposer did not discuss the opinion of the OECD and the European Commission that it was contrary to their guidelines. This was stated by the Secretary of State. Can you tell me how I should ask for the opinion of the OECD or of the European Commission, if the Secretary of State has mentioned it? Dear colleague Škoberne, I thank you for this proposal, but it will be enough for me if now the Secretary of State stands up and says, to the OECD this person and this person has said this and that. And at the Ministry of Finance, who spoke to these two institutions. See, once again, this law, which is on the table today, directly and indirectly affected EUR 12 billion of Slovenian property, which we know is not successfully managed today. This is not limited to opposition, but also to the general public in Slovenia and, last but not least, to the European Commission. I would like to know what the European Commission's report on the management of state property will be. And once again, I call on you, Madam Secretary of State, to state the names and surnames of these three institutions in the triangle when you were talking. And there are some reasons why it is not in the OECD guidelines. I really think that the OECD and the European Commission are too serious to give an opinion on the phone or on a lunch. It can be someone's personal opinion, but it can't be an institution's opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u181	It's just a matter of procedure. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. First of all, I'd like to apologize to the President for being misunderstood. Of course, I know that the President knows what relations are like with the European Commission, the OECD and so on. I don't feel like being listened to. What I'm trying to say is this: I am doing my job here seriously, perhaps even seriously compared to some others. Along with my experts, or most of all, I'd say we're going exactly to the left of the directive, brother, we're trying to consult. Of course, we are not in the government, we need to use some other channels of information. That we talk about 12 billion in this way, and that's not enough for me as a speaker in front of me. If we leave the SDS view aside, the ZL is fairly diametric in terms of state property. On some such serious matters, if anyone has ever mentioned any of the actors to me, I expect previous written statements and explanations and arguments on these matters. Because this is the only way I can do my job well, and here I am, before I ever thought I'd fall into the National Assembly, I said I was a constitutional patriot. And that's it. And it's high time we stopped that kind of ploying, that kind of relationship. Yesterday I explained to me when they explained to me up in Austria that their agricultural minister was going to Brussels or said, "I have up to here, and this is where the chain to negotiate because the National Assembly has authorized me to do so." That's how mature politics works. No, I don't. Maybe I'll say on this side someday that they told you, they told you, they said – but I don't want to be insulting to you now, ma'am – but this is some practice that you, too, who were in previous governments, probably got a little fat. And it is high time that they were already full of the mouth of the new policy, that these practices cease and that we begin to behave differently. Somehow, too, we repeat the same story, the President of the National Assembly, once again the proposals are second-, third-rate. Now it's Alice's fault she didn't get something. Okay, she's got a little more connections than me, because she used to be a prime minister. Then by this logic, I can never make enough quality marriage proposals and then yours here, who can't be funny, will try to make fun of me. I mean, if this is the legislative procedure!? I don't know. Let's close the stall.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u183	We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. Are we passing through? [[…]] Procedural mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u184	Dear President, there have now been three procedural proposals; twice on the part of my colleague Trčko, once on the side of Mr Škobrnet. But you've also touched three proposals you haven't. You have read: I conclude the point – and the bass. Can you at least define yourself to these three proposals in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Are we getting a response from the Secretary of State or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u185	First of all, we've closed the debate a long time ago. We finished it a long time ago because it was closed because no one volunteered to discuss it. It continued with procedural ones repeating each other. The same constant addition was the only one, but it was also complementary to the information I have, but I cannot continue to define it, nor is there any procedural basis for making a document from here to the debate itself, and that this document was in fact crucial for the definition of this bill. It was said there was no document, so I didn't interrupt. Now we are at – first, let me say – the 11th item of the agenda. I'll finish after I've given the procedure. Magus first. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. I propose a procedural proposal to call on the Government, whenever it refers to any views, views of the OECD or of the European Union, to effectively provide written material to the body of the European Commission, the OECD body that has discussed this, people who are responsible for such opinions, what this is really about. It is the case that the former Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja, is referred to by the current Secretary of State to the OECD, the directives, the opinions, the views of the European Commission on corporate governance. This was done by the former Secretary of State at each meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, when we addressed any issue concerning the assets of the Slovenian State Holding or DUTB. This was done by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, but we never knew that these documents were not actually there; this is what the Secretary of State, who referred to the OECD, to the European Commission, to the opinions and so on. See, if this is some conversation between the European Commission, the OECD and the Slovenian Ministry of Finance, then this is not an opinion. Then we've been down here about state property for a very long time. The entire National Assembly is being misled. For this reason, I propose that you call on the Government to warn ministers and state secretaries and officials that when they refer to international institutions, they always indicate who is responsible for this opinion by these international institutions and when this has actually happened. Otherwise, what happened today is the opinion of the Government, which refers to the European Commission and the OECD. But in fact, it's a conversation over coffee, a snooze, or they can bring in in writing what they were actually talking about, because that's what we're deciding. Here it is true that we are deceived; there is no document. How's he not here? As a public secretary, she said what the European Commission said, what does the OECD say, and so on Who now says what, which body? [[…]] What consultative body in these organs? Look, here I think we have now come to the conclusion that the National Assembly by the Government and the government officials is actually being misled. Please actually call on the government to actually do this. I think I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u187	Do you think it's procedural? Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u188	Dear President, now I really suggest that you gather to conduct the meetings, because now you've been deceiving yourself again. You said the whole package of procedural proposals was procedural and then I closed the meeting. That's not true! There was one package of procedural proposals that you rejected, and then there was the debate: the proposer, the Duck and me. But then you did, I'd say what you've done with the session. And that's when the procedural proposals started to call the Secretary of State. Then you said it was over, we're moving to 11th. [[…]] At least until the last package of procedural proposals, Mr President, you should be able to identify yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u189	I have very clearly defined myself to those procedural proposals concerning the document, we have found that this document does not exist and this is the first part of the story. The second part of the story is that in the debate this was the result of the whole discussion, and in the debate the State Secretary also made a statement and explained her part. As far as the Secretary of State is concerned, whether they answer or not, it is not my responsibility to do so and it is not within your competence, in the course of the debate, even if this debate exists, and in particular not through procedural proposals, to answer certain questions. This is how I try to conduct the meeting as far as possible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but as far as it relates to this, in what way you are trying to prevent procedural proposals from finalising the meeting, and in particular this point. What has been said will be written down, and all that is said is written down. I do not want to have any further impact on this, but I am also prepared by the Government and its authorities to take into account and document, or document, the opinions of the European institutions. I'm gonna do this to get this thing over with. Even so, this is the position that I have always taken towards these institutions, both on behalf of the National Assembly and otherwise, before in the professional field. I hope we're done with this point. Would you like a closing word, Mr. Jože Tanko, in the form of a procedural one? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think that what's happening at this point in the agenda can be an honor, not to the one who's in charge, not to the one who's in favor of the position or the interests of the government. Firstly, I think – and I say this on the basis of experience – that leadership is very unfair, biased. The moment the problem arises on the government's side, it reaches out from a place of power and protects the government. You have never allowed anything in the National Assembly to be further explained or argued by the Government. What happened in the debate on this item on the agenda when someone refers to an opinion by the European Commission or the OECD is a serious problem. For the documents produced by these institutions are marked, marked, signed. I have great doubts, given how clumsyly the Government defends itself in its position, that this is probably also a case of misunderstanding the OECD position, not only is it being discussed, but it is a question of whether or not they understand what they were talking about. And from the President of the National Assembly, or from the one who holds the meeting, I expect the maximum effort to clear in the debate all the dilemmas, all the doubts, all the suspicions associated with the agenda. This concludes the debate and forces itself to take decisions in cases of as great a suspicion as that of the Secretary of State after this debate. This is not the presidency's job. It is precisely the turn of the President to ensure that all the conditions are met and all the facts set out by Members are clarified so that they can make a sovereign and quality decision on the agenda, but not to close the matter, push it under the carpet and then force the National Assembly into the next step. In this way, Mr President, the National Assembly will never adopt good legislation, because it follows some interests that no one knows anything about, only in the middle of coffee at night someone has been talking to someone. Look, it's not a style, it's not the way the National Assembly works. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to work on the basis of arguments and documents. Your colleague only asked for documents. He's already made his case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u191	However, as regards the existence of the documents, we have already learned everything, and at point 11, which I have already announced, we are no longer at the previous point, this is the second treatment of the PROPOSAL FOR DIMNARY SERVICES in the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was put before the National Assembly by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u192	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Members and Members, have a good day! I am pleased to continue with the debate on the proposal for a law on chimney services, which will bring about the necessary changes in the field of the provision of chimney services and make it possible [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u193	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u194	that this activity will remain regulated in order to protect the interests of citizens. [[…]] Last year and this year, I have pointed out that opinions on what a systemic solution is most suitable for achieving energy efficiency objectives, improving air quality and protecting health and property are divided or even into two very conflicting fields. Although the latest debates also point to the diversity of opinions, I am pleased that the awareness has been greatly strengthened that the proposal for the licensing system we are proposing is, however, as close as possible to what constitutes an acceptable solution for all parties. I would like to stress again the advantages of the proposed regulation. The most important novelty is for users of chimney services who will have the option of choosing a chimney company with all the benefits of a competitive market for them. In doing so, I think mainly of the user as a more user-friendly service delivery and price competitiveness, as the maximum permitted service prices will be set. The proposal foresees that instead of current fixed prices, only the maximum prices will be set, which will be determined on the basis of time-limits for each service. By establishing maximum and non-fix prices, we intend to allow the final prices paid by users to be determined by the market, but mostly at the level determined by the Government. The fear that the new law brings higher prices is therefore unnecessary, as the hourly items will not go beyond the current regime and competition between chimney companies will ensure that chimney smokers optimize their work and provide services at prices that will still be sustainable for them, not at some administrative price. On the other hand, the licensing system also confers advantages on chimney companies that will no longer be restricted to certain areas, and the new system also provides an opportunity for those who have so far been unable to carry out activities so that they can enter it when the conditions are met. In order to effectively operate the new system, there will be a need to strengthen control over the implementation of the law, which we intend to do by upgrading the chimney record and strengthening surveillance. The bill foresees a number of minor but urgently needed improvements. It regulates the first inspection, provides for the possibility of excluding those combustion plants that are not actually used, deletes the combustion plant and further specifies the difference between regular and occasional operating devices. To conclude, the proposal for a law on chimney services does not remove the existing concession system, as it was already done by the National Assembly in 2013. The amendment of the Environmental Protection Act provided for the termination of the operation of the chimney service as a compulsory State economic public service. The Ministry with a proposal for a law thus regulates an area which would otherwise be from 1. 1. 2017 in the free market, which means that the provision of chimney services would be completely unregulated. At the Ministry, we believe that the proposed scheme for the provision of chimney services will prove effective and that, both for all users and for many operators, satisfaction with the solutions provided by this law will be high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u195	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u196	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleague, colleague! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at its 22nd meeting, on 7 November. 9. 2016 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on chimney services submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. The Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, gave an additional explanation on behalf of the proposer, in the same way as she today presented the main solutions contained in the proposal for a law. In its opinion on the proposal for a law, the legislative and legal service highlighted in particular the conclusion that the bill provides for the replacement of the concessional public service system with a regulated market system, which is limited to certain institutions specific to the legal system of public services. On the one hand, it follows from the proposal of the law that the provision of chimney services is based on market activity and, on the other hand, there is a strong emphasis on public interest in the legal text, which, according to the proposed smoker service provider, cannot be left to the market, but requires a certain regulation. This claim, in their view, constitutes a basis which, in accordance with the Law on Economic Public Services, requires the establishment of a legal regime for public service and thus a stronger intervention by the State in a free economic initiative. Although the proposal for a law leaves the legal regime of the public service, it provides for a number of restrictions on the conduct of economic activities specific to the legal regime of public services. In this case, in their view, there is a conflict between the envisaged establishment of a market activity on the one hand and the public interest on the other and, consequently, the regulation of activities. The opinion on the bill was also put forward by the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which does not support the bill. In its opinion, the Commission has repeatedly taken the view that the provision of chimney services is in the public interest and therefore advocates a chimney service within the public service and does not support the free market for chimney services. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Union of Environmental Movements, who expressed opposition to the solutions provided by the proposal for the law, also presented their views on the draft law. They put forward the view that the existing system works well and there is no need to change it. The opinion on the bill was also presented by a representative of the All-Slovenian Civil Initiative Dimnik, who stressed that they support the partial introduction of the free market for chimney services. In the debate, some members of the opposition groups pointed out that, despite the many amendments tabled, it could be concluded that the proposed solutions in the draft law were neither satisfied with the proponents of maintaining the concession system nor advocates of the introduction of the free market. The greatest concern, however, is in their opinion, that despite the amendments tabled, a number of comments have not been addressed, which have been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. In spite of the almost exposed criticisms, the Coalition Members expressed their recognition of the Ministry of Labour and the attempt to find an appropriate interim solution between the completely conflicting views of stakeholders on how to regulate the area of chimney services, especially since it is more or less clear from the outset that there is no system that corresponds to everyone at this point. At the criticism of the representatives of the operators of the chimney services, the current coalition with the proposal for a bill to abolish an effective system, it was pointed out that the existing system was merely replacing it, since it had already been abolished in 2013 by the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act, which had abolished the chimney service as an economic public service. It has been pointed out that the coalition has made great efforts to get as close to different positions as possible while at the same time preparing a sieve that will deal with this issue in a qualitative manner. After discussion, the Committee adopted several of its amendments, and the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 7 became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u197	Since the Assembly held a general debate at its 20th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Initially, if you'll excuse me, first a few words about the law in general. At least as far as the coalitions are concerned and in coordination with the Ministry of Environment and Space, there have been discussions about this law for a long time, I can say. It dates back to the year we began to coordinate the content of this law. Back then, we wanted to improve the text of the law in a way that would make the transition from the old mode of the provision of chimney services as smooth as possible and would not present major problems to both smokers and users. I think that this has been completely successful in later coordination, as well as in the procedure for the last draft law in the National Assembly, of course, in cooperation with the other coalition partners. While, of course, we have always had in mind what this law is about, and this is a guarantee of public interest in environmental protection, health protection and energy efficiency. I can say that the law has experienced or experienced a similar fate as many others that we have dealt with in the National Assembly, namely between two fires or breakdowns: those who were for total liberalisation and were unable to meet them because of the slightly mentioned public interest and those who advocated that nothing should change. A survey of satisfaction was often mentioned in these discussions, with 84% of users satisfied and 16% not satisfied. The new system allows this 16% to be selected by another smoker service provider. Most likely, because this option now exists and is not present at all, a new smoker service provider will also be decided by one of the 84% who were satisfied. As far as the implementation of the law is concerned, I may nevertheless mention the challenges that lie ahead of the Ministry of the Environment and the Space for the adoption of sub-legislative acts and the beginnings of the implementation of this law. The Ministry is likely to publish, in 2017, a record of the operators of chimney services, which will have a licence to be obtained from administrative units on the basis of complete applications and from then on until 30 June of the following year, it will be possible to select the operator for a period of 12 months. Each time, changes to the operator will also be possible until 30 June for the next 12-month period. Here I think it is very important to stress what we have done together in the coalition and what was our essential proposal not to cause any special additional disturbance in users, i.e. owners of combustion plants, by requiring the full mobilisation of the owners of combustion plants, so that we should all suddenly choose something. We have made it possible by amendment to Article 33 that those who do not wish to choose another smoker service provider will also retain the one who performed this activity on their last day of this year under existing legislation. So once again, users will not have to run or click the Internet after the new year if they are satisfied with their performer. Those who are not, of course, will likely make this effort to find out who else they will choose. As far as the amendment is concerned, Article 7. The amendment was adopted due to an opinion, so the amount of the insurance sum with the amendment is increased from 42 000 to 150 000 due to the opinion of the section of real estate intermediaries at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia that the amount is 150 000 in line with the Real Estate Intermediation Act. Of course, this is an insurance sum and not an insurance premium that each insurance undertaking then calculates separately. However, as regards the amendment of the United Left to this article, we will not, of course, support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u199	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u200	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, as well as to ministers with colleagues! I'm actually going to say something in general at the beginning, too, because I'm not going to come forward anymore. First of all, it would be right for me to say that the ministry has worked quite successfully, that they have been patient, subtle, and that with us Members, I myself myself have been partly involved in the drafting of this law, not as many as the members of the committee, that the ministry, the minister, has worked with us and that we have to thank her in some way for it. At the very beginning, I will say that I am very satisfied with the smoker service provider in my place of residence, and even when he gets the license, I will choose him, I will not look for another. Now perhaps I'd like to say [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I wasn't talking about the name, the last name, or the company name. And now I'm going to share my knowledge and experience with this problem somehow into three parts. The first part was at the local level when I first met with the award of a concession for the provision of chimney services. This was the first period that dates back to 2000, then my first term in the National Assembly, when I, as a member of the then Committee on Environment and Space, met for the second time, and, of course, this meeting now that we have started talking about how this matter should be regulated. I was satisfied with the solution at local level because the matter was well settled and also worked. I will not say what the chimney meant when it came to the village area, how the chimney was respected and what relations they had with the chimney. Of course, it is also due to the past major fires that occurred at the time, especially because the combustion plants may not have been so well-managed and, of course, the chimneys were not as neat as they should have been. In 2008, we also started a global debate in the National Assembly on how things were not well arranged, and all the chimney associations complained terribly about the solutions at the time. The biggest problem is that at the time, in Slovenia, a number of smokers were actually given the opportunity to control this activity throughout Slovenia. Those smokers, who had a family tradition, complained a lot about the matter and were, of course, outspoken. In fact, some fictitious data has led to concessions by larger chimney companies at that time. And no one could solve this matter because a concession contract had been concluded. And there comes a time when we started talking about this subject in this mandate. I simply and simply said that we have only four options and that we no longer have them, that we wanted to find something else, that one solution to another, and it is not. Either licence or concession – concession at local level, at national level – or free market. I compared it to a woman's clothes, a wing, and I said, one time like that, another time. But I wouldn't say that now, and I wouldn't talk about it here. The solutions were relatively well - prepared, but we were not satisfied. And remember, we will never be satisfied, all together, united. Nor will these associations be satisfied with chimneys, but one solution must be found, and this solution, the licenses, I think is the right solution. Even those who have not been able to carry out this activity so far will be given this opportunity and the opportunity to re-examine, of course, if they meet the conditions, to obtain a licence and that they will be able to do this activity again and that the subcontractors will no longer be able to do so to these large companies that have already mastered this issue in Slovenia. This amendment, proposed by the United Left, will end by saying that I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u201	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll start there at the end; they won't support the SMC, of course, they won't support Desus. Of course, like executive power, it never explains why something yes, why something not in this reference, is happening within, in a narrower sense, interparty debate. It's kind of like some three-year-old kid who's not going to eat a parish with beans. All right, let's stop. My friend Jurš is in front of me, but I have to admit, he's telling the whole story and the background of the story quite fair. Of course, why does a chimney bring good luck? Also because he was preventing fires with his work. But you know, if we were to go now to the history of Maribor, where I have been living lately, the 17th, 18th century, how many fires there have been. And that's why we had an observation room on that tour of ours. There's this sort of logic to these stories. And now because of some anomaly we will turn the case three times over and, smokers are already writing with Slovenian lawyers, we will probably get it at the Constitutional Court and it can happen somehow that this matter actually falls. Because I have quite a bit of time, my former student and a member of the Social Democrats said earlier that he hoped that we would stop these procedurals and hope that someone would not be a doctor. It seems to me that from today's meeting, at least a few people should be a doctorate of the 22nd regular meeting of this National Assembly. At first we had Mr Primec's show, and then we couldn't discuss the bikes, and we came up with what kind of weekend Erjavec has and where he doesn't have it. Then we moved on to the Aviation Act, where, due to the needs of one airport, we would be doing business and this law would be essentially unconstitutional after the economic activity. Then we had this stunt about SDH, with this theater, which we did a little bit of playing, and now we have this story about chimney services, where even the ministry only writes in one of its own explanations that except for England, all countries have this in one way or another regulated. In a neighbouring country, it's all hereditary. In fact, due to some anomalies which, of course, could be prevented and disabled by some appropriate inspection supervision, we could have a system that was and that would have worked. Now, some things turn upside down – and, of course, Mr Jurša defends his minister, SMC tells us how great and nice everything is, but when you sit on the committee, literally everyone is unhappy. With the ministry of some answers, if they will, it will be some kind of legal-form pingpong and it is one of our maximum aggregates in this society. Of course, it is at the end of our responsibility and political decision to adopt laws Of course, here is the basis of 25 years of politics and also of other social climates, that we somehow adopt laws with which we are all dissatisfied and which very often then go to the Constitutional Court. [[…]] This is an example of one such law. I don't know, with all this morality and big words, maybe we should get to the point where we say, but if a law falls on the constitution, then let the minister or minister resign automatically. But then it'll be even harder to get people in ministerial office. Of course we have to say, here we also have the crossing of the local level. The parishioners like that very much, they whisper higher in the National Assembly, very often justified. We have quite a few people here who were former mayors, we know what it's like, but sometimes they have a situation like this, because sometimes they have excuses – and I won't open up this topic about the mandatory tasks of the municipalities and so on. In this very amendment, we're just trying to prevent "kaslc" of the company, that's the whole story, I can't even explain it long and wide. To be honest, I already have this law by putting it in the constitutional law to ban chimneys in Slovenia. This is such a farce that it's gone nowhere. I am very afraid that this case will fall to the Constitutional Court, that this case will not solve what colleague Jurš said we will get some oligopolistic companies that will deal with this activity, then the small ones will somehow be subcontractors or some family tradition will go to the historical dump – just like the Ducks we don't do any more hats, but sometimes we – and there will be no quality greater than the security that this is supposed to defend, not the representation of some public interest. You know, this is a very similar story to that other track again. Nobody in Europe does this, nobody finances it that way – we will! The whole EU is regulated in one way or another, and we will discover something else. Let's give this initiative over the MGRT some place to put some extra money to work, but not all the time, in essence, to mutilate some activities. Here I can trump, tear myself apart, fall together, but in this composition of the coalition and in the manner in which this executive power has relations with us now – I am a few experts, experts who are older after the internship, asked now through the house in between, they said that it has never been so that the executive authority would somehow have such a vehement relationship I don't know. [[…]] We're not a kindergarten! Wait, after all, we also have some responsibility, and after all, we get very good money, depending on the overall profit of our work. I won't be answering today because I'm already going to my own liver because I've been talking all day, but I'm afraid this is probably going to fall in the Constitutional Court, that some basic objective has been lost in the middle. It's a difficult matter. Like a funeral activity with many interests, I will also point out something that we think in this society and in this country, because there are differences of course – something is a chimney activity in the municipality of Semič, and something else is in Ljubljana. I can be a little populism, and I say, who's worth cleaning up the chimney on the Kredar? Probably no one. Who's gonna want it? Where are you going? Or, say, Days there kimma, on Kanin or up in some of these villages. Probably some poor guy who's going to have to open up to live out of it, some little bigger chimney activity, where that money's going to disappear somewhere, and he's going to stay in some minuses. It is likely that this and such legislation will then be seized at a practical, implementing level. And the overvalued bureaucrats in the affirmative sense of how many there are, and then they'll ping with the Constitutional Court, and we'll write opinions here, and we'll have some board meetings, but we have literally a million cases in the infrastructure area to solve. You probably won't support our amendment. We'll all go to the history dump, sooner or later. We're all dead in the long run. That's very good news. Maybe we'll even get cremated. But I wouldn't want any of us to be burned down by such stunts and, in fact, by our incompetence of all those involved in the political process, in a narrower and broader sense, a house or something like that. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u203	The Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u204	Thank you. I would like to say that we, too, do not accept the proposal of the United Left Amendment. But I'd like to explain why not. Coordination itself in the drafting of the law has shown that the labour law and other legislation allowing working relations and other forms of work, such as the employment relationship, the employment contract or the business contract, the copyright contract, and, of course, such a record is existing, as is the case with the legislative services. We agree with the other amendments. This is the advantage of the guaranteed amount to be borne by the chimney company, which rises from 42 000 to 150 000. We further agree with the amendments that speak of the chimney being immediately alerted on the spot by the owner of the combustion plant if the shortcomings are such that they pose a threat to the living environment. We further agree with the amendment, which in fact solves the dilemma of users, do so after this amendment has been adopted, and I really wish this amendment to Article 33. It is no longer mandatory for each owner of a combustion plant to choose its own operator, to the extent that, as has been said, he is satisfied with his work, it can be considered, therefore, if he does not select another operator, that operator is considered to be carrying out chimney services in the future. However, Article 36 specifies which acts, which rules apply until new ones are put into effect. In this place, I also want to be with all of us in the formulations and in writing better solutions that are largely user-friendly, but I am sure that even the vast majority of chimneys will fit, and only implementation, I am sure, will not be major shocks in the coming year. Why is that my belief? Also because, after the first reading, and after the consideration of this law in the Government, many users have turned to the Ministry, they have sought further information and have somehow given us enough energy and will to come to Parliament with the preparation of the law itself. Of course, in everyday life it is easier to say how nothing works, but it is much harder to prepare to act by finding solutions that are acceptable for the widest possible circle. And in this part, I thank all those who have helped with the implementation, which also had an understanding for us, for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u205	Anybody else want to discuss this? All right, I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Ivan Prelog has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you. Dear colleagues and others present! I am pleased that today we have brought the law on chimney services to the final stage of the hearing in the National Assembly. The solutions introduced by the law will bring about changes in the scope of the provision of chimney services mainly by the user. The user will be able to select a chimney company on his own, allowing for price competitiveness and, in certain cases, an increase in the quality of the services provided. At the same time, this law also confers certain advantages on chimney societies. They will be able to provide their services in a normal manner and maintain their customers, except at the express wish of the user after the change of the chimney company. It is also the advantage of the new system that the provision of a chimney service is no longer linked to the area, which means that operators will now be able to provide the service freely throughout the territory. However, what is most important in all this is that the operation is still regulated in important segments and that it is still possible to maintain the proper condition of small combustion plants. This is essential for ensuring fire safety and thus protecting human health and property. I believe that such a system will prove to be a good arrangement to satisfy both smoker service providers and users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u207	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President! Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the area of the regulation of chimneys in Slovenia has quite a long tail with history that can tell us about this process, which I hope is ending today, too, many things. From the fact that this was the responsibility of the municipalities, through the concession system, to the desire for a fully deregulation of the free market in this area, the existing proposal is likely to be one of the remaining possible, if not the only possible form of regulation in this area, to the extent that we want to regulate this in a way that at the same time provides part of the public service, the public interest which is linked to the provision of fire safety, the appropriate quality of air and control, and, on the other hand, the elements of marketing that will certainly help improve user experience and are actually required by users, not because an existing or system that ends with the expiry of the extension of the law. 12th, it worked, but because it didn't. Because on the one hand we had monopolistic concessionaires who behaved like, some well, some poorly, and some in certain areas, despite concessions, did not appear at all. They are already operating there, although past the law – which can also be confirmed by a number of inspections, including a number of court decisions, which, as far as I know, have given me reminders – smaller companies, smaller chimneys, which are in the absence of the responsibility of concessionaires, but only in some areas, even where I live, have done this activity, because the awareness of people that chimneys, as has been said today, bring happiness, but for nothing else, so that the house doesn't burn, is strong enough. When a lot of criticism was heard in the process of this law, a lot of ideas about why this law is not good were, on the other hand, relatively few ideas on how to put the system differently, except through the prisms of solutions that we have already had, but either from the point of view of the user, or from the point of view of control, or from the point of view of public interest, proved to be inadequate, less appropriate, however, in the way that we today need to change things. The worst thing that could have happened to us, at least according to the Social Democrats, is that the law would have fallen today and would have been 31. 12. Complete the regulatory period and moved to a completely free market, where, then, I say, a matter of good will and fire safety and clean air and everything that belongs to it. Those who have followed the evolution process of this law more closely, you know that they also do not hold the evidence that appears here and there in the media, and elsewhere, in the air and in the corridors, that there was no hearing for the stakeholders for change. This is not true, for if today we ask the Minister to give us a version of the law from May and the version of the law before you today, assuming that there are still some key amendments to be adopted, also to meet the requirements of the legislative and legal services and to satisfy some of the key requirements of the contractors, you will find that there are almost two completely different proposals, which shows that we have managed to reconcile one thing through the legislative process, but of course we have not been able to move to a better one, but of course because this is usually not the case where the parties are as different as when one advocate of the monopoly and the other is an absolute free market, we have put in the framework of the possible way that all of us who participated in this, we know. [[…]] As I have already said on the committee, it may sometimes be unfair that those who have not put so much effort into the process – here I must commend the director of the Directorate for the Environment – then make this superficial and without bad news overly critical. Any work that has been done can, after it has been done, earn some criticism and reflect back. But in this case, I estimate that these criticisms may have been more than they were deserved and justified. In recent rounds of coordination, we have thus come to a law which, on the one hand, guarantees this public interest, limits the cost of not hitting the user more than reasonable, meaningfully when moving to the market. This, of course, will also depend on what future references of the National Assembly and, as a result, the Government will come up with. Probably more than going towards this side, where I sit alone with my colleagues and colleagues, this price will be more solidarity and regulated than it will go to the side where my colleague Lisec is sitting, probably this thing will be more open. But this is a matter of decision and mandate for people who are the only sovereigns in this country, except that some think that there are other organizations that we have to listen to unconditionally, but this is a third story. An important movement has also been made for current concessionaires. A month ago, the law did not have a regulated system of inheritance according to the existing state, nor did it have an orderly transitional period. All of this has been coordinated with the Ministry and stakeholders. Of course, not in perfection again, as any of those who are completely on opposite shores would have wanted, for this is absolutely impossible. But as Mr Jurša has already said, existing providers will be able to work further if the user is satisfied with the existing company, does not want to change – the story goes on – and in my case, when the concessionaire has failed to visit my house in ten years and some others in the area, we will choose someone who will be able to do this right from now on. And this was one of the reasons why it was also necessary to introduce elements of marketability and free choice into this law. Among other things, there have been criticisms of the possibility of a constitutional review of the law. Any law may have a constitutional judgment, and what will be decided by the Constitutional Court, the one who knows it today, and the one who hopes to bet on it may well earn a lot of money on an Asian bet. Because if one of our constitutional courts is unforeseeable enough that it is difficult to vote on what will happen in fourteen days and what the situation will be after the Constitutional Court's decision, because I believe that some of those who today are talking about a constitutional judgment are also saying that they have improved their negotiating basis in the process of harmonising the law, that we may have listened to them more than they should have. And this is a normal negotiating process not only in drafting legislation or elsewhere. In the economy, you would just say that you're raising your price, and that's absolutely logical from the point of view of performers. At the end of the day are what we had all the time before our eyes, especially users. Therefore, we have tied, which was not easy to reconcile, the law itself or the combustion plant no longer to the user, but to the owner of the property for which the combustion plant is used; that we have also made it easier to control that we will not allow it to happen, that someone then took the tenant and because he has a tenant who has not been in the country for some time now can no longer be liable for any damage that has occurred. We maintain the relevant elements of inspection, we improve the record, and at the same time we are doing something that is too often misunderstood in this society, and I think it should not be: we are also responsible for people to decide for themselves and to take care of their own combustion plants for their own living space as part of their own judgment. If each of us is aware of the responsibilities we have, then the difficulties we have in choosing both at the time of the deadlines and at the subsequent processes, when necessary once a year, unless there is a different form of agreement – which I think the executive organisations will otherwise take care of – that is for the individual to take care of. And if we were to redecorate this law today, which was also the wish of some, we would again hear the obvious that in this country, everything that is, we must write it down in the law and that any of the most impossible situations that is in the most extraordinary way possible to imagine, we must write it down and define it in law. This logic, at least in this reference, I hope that in some cases we have successfully applied and it would be very good to understand that the nature of the law is not to determine any possible variation of an event in this universe, but to clearly define the key parameters, the conditions of goods, but in this context we believe that there is an element of common sense and rational judgment in this country as well. In this respect, I believe that the law is today much more mature to receive and confirm than it was in May or as it was last year, when extensions were needed and so on. When assessing whether the law should be supported or not, it is crucial that we also ask ourselves what follows if the law falls. What follows is anarchy and anarchy in the field of fire safety, clean air — I believe — none of us want to. However, I am not saying this because I would like to say through this prism, fear this and adopt the law, because otherwise there are no other arguments for admission, but I am saying this as an addition to what I hope, alone, also with colleagues and colleagues, in previous discussions, and also through the words of the Minister here today, and we will probably also hear with some criticism, but the arguments for the adoption of this law are today, I think, strong enough not to be a dilemma or a law to support or not. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u209	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u210	Thank you, President, for your word. Minister with co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! A very important point, almost every one of us touches, because we all live somewhere, perhaps this one-bedroom house, a double house or a multi-bedroom house, and sooner or later we all meet with either a chimney or by solving the problems that smokers cause us. Because, like car exhausts, the house must also have a chimney and these newer houses have at least fireplaces and thus have a chimney. I myself met with this subject of chimneys almost as soon as I came to Parliament in 2005 and when I heard how the previous Prime Minister was, this is Mr Tone Rop, first three days before the end of his term of office, adopted a regulation and two days before the end of his term of office the law. We know the law is the rule of law first, but then it was done. Something happened quickly, and I regret to say that when we asked the Minister of the Environment of Mr Janez Sponik at the time, whether there was any possibility that the law that brought the concessions should be repealed and we would consider what and how to proceed. And he said, I'm very afraid because the concession contracts are signed and I don't see a solution, except that all concessionaires are suing the country for huge costs, but let's wait for what this system will bring. And this system has brought a number of problems, both to certain chimneys and especially to users who have wondered why chimney visits are so common and why such prices of individual services. We now have a law, as we had very similar last year at the end of the year, which was torn apart by the Government's legislative and legal service. Here we have a law that has been torn apart by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and I think that in the Constitutional Court this law will fall. The Constitutional Opinion was announced by both civil initiatives, as well as by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. And let's not say, yes because the Constitutional Court decides something, allow two sentences, three sentences from the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, which speaks of violations of the Constitution. "The conflict between the envisaged establishment of a market activity on the one hand and the emphasis on public interest on the other, and the consequent regulation of activities by introducing elements specific to the legal regime of the public service, is also reflected in the proposed legal regime, which is also partly unclear, incomplete and uncoordinated due to the latter, and departs from the legal system with the envisaged restrictions on economic activity in the market system and an infringement of the autonomy of the parties to the contract, which interferes with the free economic initiative provided by the 74th Article of the Constitution and the general freedom to regulate the bonds arising from Article 35 of the Constitution." I believe that these two articles will be mentioned more than once in the Constitutional Review. Then they say, yes, because we don't have other solutions, smokers will be dissatisfied, civil initiatives will be dissatisfied, in short, users and other solutions are missing. Send, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, SMS to civil initiatives, as well as chimneys, to the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, what kind of system they want. I'm sure you'll get very short answers and it'll just be written: Germany. Otherwise, we do not have the countries Germany has, but believe that what the provinces do would easily do to the Ministry of Environment and Space, of course, if they performed functions as they should. Germany. What have we been doing with us for the past ten years? Over the past two years, it may have improved slightly, not because of this government, that there will be no mistake, but because of reports by the Court of Auditors, which tore up the area of chimneys and wrote by name, which chimney breaker breaks what and where and when and how. However, we had urgent meetings of the competent committees, and only something started to happen at the Ministry, and in the end, even someone finally lost the concession. But when we read the law, it won't be any better. I'm afraid those words about environmental protection and human protection will be even worse than they are right now. The first problem I have alone is the tightening of words: the free market and the public economic service in one sentence. It's not working. I mean, it's nice to be a little bit like one person and a little bit like the other, but in practice, you get a disaster. I think it'll translate this law because it doesn't bring users anything. What free choice, Your Honor? Read Article 19. Only a second "When the user of chimney services is more than 25 km away from the seat of the chimney company, the amount referred to in paragraph 2 relating to travel costs may be added to the travel costs for each km above 25 km not included in the price of the service referred to in the first sentence of this paragraph." [[…]] Now tell me which Jože from Lendava will say that he is not satisfied with his nearby chimney, but rather he will take the chimney out of the I don't know, Postojna, from Kopra, from Kranjska Gora or from Sevnica. He won't, because he's recalculating! He'll say why would he pay "like" a high-end chimney, better this one is a little bit worse, but at least it's cheaper. And that's how logic works, I believe, most of the people in this Slovenia who calculate for each store when they walk, what's cheaper here, what's cheaper there, and here they will calculate. Why would I take one chimney from somewhere else if I paid more? What has been happening in recent times, when the smokers' companies of a questionable reputation came to Slovenia, when they entered into fictitious concession contracts, may not be the case anymore, but it has already been the problem of the ministry, not the users. And what do I think is going to happen? In Slovenia, there will be 5 chimney companies, one called tycoons, which will control the entire system and model of chimneys. And that when you talk about how the price benefit will be for users – it will not be because these chimneys will agree on each other. The government says the government will fix the maximum price and then, of course, the market will make low prices. No! No! This chimney market will agree that everyone will go to the highest price. We're gonna do a system like this, but the user's gonna pay for it anyway. I am even more afraid, given the poor experience with the competent ministry, that the licenses will be given the right one. Just like they got concessions; one got them, one didn't get them at all. We know quite a few cases from Notranjska to Stajerska, when they had what Comrade Jurš used to say in the family chimneys, but they did not like certain officials at the Ministry. They said by name and surname that officials in the ministry controlled the chimney sphere, and because of those officials who favored someone else, they did not receive concessions, in such places as the congregations, where they waited for who would receive the concession when there was no one to go to that congregation. But no, one of them wasn't right. What else is a fact? Over the last five years, there have been smokers, the main ones, with the help of people from ministries, but I don't think the current minister, although we also hear a lot of things about what happened and how it happened in Slovenian Bistrica and so on, but it should be judged by others and likely by them – we destroyed the industry. Do you know how many masters have been smokers in Slovenia in the last five years? One of the masters got it! Otherwise, five went to the exam, but they didn't let them through because they said we couldn't accept the bad masters in Slovenia. We've destroyed the industry, but today we're talking, the free market will be, the smokers will do what they want. Who's gonna work if they're not here?Oh, my God! The five major companies will remain, we will get smokers of a questionable reputation from more eastern countries, and so the system will work because the domestic chimneys are no longer there. And I'm not going to talk about apprenticeship and deficit jobs right now, but if we don't have masters, how will we have ordinary chimneys? And these chimneys are so old they only think about one thing, not when they'll go to Desus, but when they'll retire. For the past six months, chimney companies have not registered cars because they don't know if they're gonna be real and committed to getting a license. They don't hire chimneys anymore, but they get fired because they can't survive anymore because they know exactly that they're going to survive the five biggest chimneys. I even got a list of five names on the e-mails that will survive from the chimney industry. I'm sure these people who sent this information don't come from the Chamber of Commerce or from civil initiatives, they know exactly because they have information from the Ministry and how it's going to happen. In short, you had a very simple task, a copy-paste German model, and you didn't know how to do it. Unfortunately. For users, this law brings absolutely nothing except a bond that they will have to choose a chimney. Now the chimney's on its own, and now they're gonna have to choose it themselves. And everyone will choose the nearest chimney - Article 19. What's more, the penalty will be if you don't choose it. I was forced to have John Novak, and now if you don't choose John Novak or anyone else, you're gonna get a ticket. I believe that civil disobedience will follow a constitutional judgment. Let me get this straight. Dear Minister, I asked you on the committee: If this law falls on the Constitutional Court, will you stand down or wait for the interpretation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u211	As the last speaker in this round, Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, spoke to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u212	Thank you. The proposal for a law on chimney services does not establish an economic service, but regulates the activity, as a free economic initiative would apply in the absence. It is therefore the view that the law is contrary to the Constitution, the opinion and somehow we cannot share that opinion. We believe that the very activity, namely the regulation of this activity, is necessary, I think that through a number of discussions, we have also been identified by users, owners of small combustion plants. In fact, finding out that you don't have to edit this department anymore likes to hear it, and maybe the first few moments you say yes, that would be great. But in settlements, when a person, the owner of the property realizes that he will never know whether the neighbors have had the chimney examined or fire safety ensured, then in a little longer consideration it is only necessary for his own safety to ensure that this activity is carried out, that we no longer arrive at a time when the chimneys are really looked for and ensure a happy day when he meets him, but that security is ensured in a way that the combustion plants are regularly and properly inspected. I believe it would be the easiest thing for a lot of people to do if they passed on the German system. It is true, however, that if they had done something like this, they would have listened to some other comments. And we are open to comments and accept them, but we also give answers to our comments. In this way, I also comment on the answers that we do not grant licences at the Ministry, they are awarded by administrative units. So this independence is guaranteed. I will not judge myself and will not go through with you in 2005 when this concession system started, but in terms of those coming from some smaller areas, we are really experiencing a lot of things, and it was also stressful for users when they might have switched in a few days or came first that chimney that had no concession, and then a chimney that had a concession, and both of them did the service and charged it. Why am I saying this? I am also saying this because the record that had to be filled out, we briefly call it EviDim, and it is true that so far the concessionaire has been responsible for the combustion plant. When I arrived at the Ministry, less than 40% were completed. We now note that this year, when we extended concessions and chimneys or chimney companies or espionage, these could also be concessionaires, the five you are talking about, and we did not have the necessary data in EviDim, we did not extend the concession until the end of this year. We have made quite a few calls on the ground, smokers have also come from neighbouring areas, but as has already been said on the committee itself and civil initiative has warned me about this, for the region of Laško we are now conducting a third call for this activity. If anyone is referring to you, I hope to state that, I repeat, after the adoption of this law by the government and then after the hearing in Parliament, more than 3,000 individuals have been referred to the Ministry. These are different, but most of them were users. And we can't deny that users want, we said in the review itself or in the customer satisfaction survey that some users want to choose their own chimney. That doesn't mean someone from Lendava will pick someone in Cyprus. This means that in the concession area he will select an operator who is not a concessionaire but in the neighbouring area he will provide this chimney service. Such an exaggeration that now smokers from Kopra will go to Lendava seems to me to be absolutely pointless. This issue of adaptation in the debate is using unrealistic things to make you rhetorically stronger, but for some systems of work, it is not for me. Once again, I hope to say that the law for users is good, acceptable. If I speak for the Ministry of Environment and Space through this clean environment effort, we know that pollution with PM10 particles is greater in certain periods in some areas, so monitoring of all of this is also necessary. To a large extent it is, it is rare, and let it be even less rare, a combustion plant can also cause death. With proper scrutiny, this ensures the resolution of all these shortcomings. The fact is also that the Commission's proposal, which was mentioned here today, was not adopted by the Council of State in its consideration in the State Council. Throughout all this debate, the Council of State considered it right that the regulation of chimney activity should be carried out in a way that would ensure security for users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I would say first that I am pleased that we have brought the process of adopting the so-called chimney law so far. I would say that we have made a great deal of effort on this committee, namely Members, Minister, Director of the Environment Directorate and also their other co-workers at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Today we are discussing the amendments that we have before us. Even earlier, it would touch on the individual advantages of the law and obligations for smokers. I was encouraged by my distinguished colleague Lisec, who spoke before me when he said that they were not satisfied performers, comments were from both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. In his debate, my colleague Mr Škoberne presented very well these interests, which have been shared by various groups in the examination and finalisation of the articles of this Act. In such cases, it is very difficult to reconcile the interests of each other. I would like to draw particular attention here to the interests of users, which we sometimes simply ignore. I would say that users, like operators, will later return to them, get some improvements and benefits in the performance of the service. This is also different for users and their interest is taken into account. I will thus point out that the user under this law has the option of selecting a chimney, that there is a greater price competitiveness of the service, which is not negligible. The so-called highest prices of the service will be determined. It is said that the chimney will not be able to charge a higher price than they will be determined. It will also improve the quality of services. Inspection will also be arranged, which is very important. We have also heard today many times about the dangers to these property owners, when failure to perform a chimney service or other faults in these combustion plants to fire and to great damage, as well as to deaths. We know this has happened before. It is therefore very important that the chimney is obliged to notify the owner of the combustion plant of the error and also to give him time to remedy the error, and if he does not do so, there is also a need for an inspection and, of course, sanctions. It is also important that existing operators are able to continue their activities. If I'm satisfied with the chimney that's been cleaning my fire extinguisher so far, of course I won't be looking for another one, and I won't need any activity to secure my chimney. I'll only look for him in case I want to replace the chimney. It is also important that those who have not been able to provide chimney services can enter the system, but will, of course, have to meet the conditions. And the liability of the chimneys. I'll make the most of it. As I have already said, the inspection of the device in the prescribed form and scope is recorded and will have to do it as necessary, it will have to draw up records of the services performed; it will inform the user of the small combustion plant about irregularities, I have already said; it will also propose the correction of errors; it will record small combustion plants and services in the personal record. It is also very important that the law provides for the obligation of a chimney chimney to be educated. Permanent education of chimneys is also very important. I would also like to say that the Ministry has prepared a review of the amendments tabled. We support these amendments in Desus. We support the amendment to the 7th Article of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, which speaks of a change of €42 000 to €150,000. This is an insurance sum, not an insurance premium. So that's clear. However, we will not support the amendment to Article 7 tabled by the Joint Left Group. We also support the amendment to Article 15 in Desus, which speaks of a chimney being informed by an inspection if it discovers that there could be a malfunction in human poisoning at a combustion plant. Then we support Article 33 and we will vote in favour, in paragraph 5, on the choice of chimneys that the user has 12 months to do so. Then the fifth paragraph, which refers to the fact that if it does not select it, is considered to have chosen the operator who has previously provided the services of the chimney. Then we also support Article 36, and I would say that these are transitional provisions which state which acts are applicable when a Regulation ceases to apply. Of course, in the Desus Group, we will support the law and also the amendments I have just spoken about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate on Article 7? I'm asking you to sign up. Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u216	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There has been a lot of talk about this law. The general denominator of all the debates is that we have always had very conflicting opinions. On the one hand, we have had the initiatives and demands of the Chamber of Commerce and other stakeholders, where chimney smokers are represented and advocated to maintain the system so far. On the other hand, we had the opposite public interest in the civil initiative, which advocated that we should not actually adopt any legislation on smoking and that this service should be free on the market. Anyone who wants a chimney, wants one, isn't mandatory or anything. I must say that this law in the field of the Infrastructure Committee is one of those that has been very closely accompanied by letters, emails and the like, articles in newspapers and is lifting and will obviously raise a lot of dust. One of the things that came to the proposalr, the Ministry of Environment and Space, was that opponents of the law wondered why such an arrangement was at all. I have to re-emphasize here all those who may not have been following the case since the beginning that the system so far has been terminated since 2013 by the Environmental Protection Act. The current system was not abolished by this law, but was abolished by the amendment to the ZVO-1F law, which abolished chimney smoking as a compulsory economic public service. Today there is much to be heard about the fact that this law is unconstitutional, we have heard the position of the Law-Legal Service to regulate on the one hand, on the other hand, it is a matter of such material as may be a compulsory economic public service. On this issue, I first examined whether anyone at the time had successfully challenged the Environmental Protection Act, which had abolished it as an economic public service. I figured it wasn't like that. Allegations that this law will be released for legal review, I will say that these are indications that we must take into account, as far as we can look at the law, but that must not prevent us from making decisions. If any threat with a constitutional judgment were to be considered in such a way as to stop legal proceedings, then there would probably be no law adopted. If this constitutional judgment is triggered, let's say that the law will be annulled, maybe just some article, but let's just say that everything is going to be wrong, now you opposition colleagues are wondering if the Minister will step down. I'll tell you that if this happens, it can happen that the situation that will then be worse. If we don't have a marriage, I believe we're in a worse position. Some say no, too, we have heard on the committee that this is the worst possible option, but I am sure that if we do not have a law, if cleaning chimneys is not required by law, then there can be an increase in the risk to life, to human health, to some harm to the environment. The announcements of constitutionality and unconstitutionality are therefore highly ungrateful. Of course the opposition is not hard to say it is constitutionally, then, unconstitutionally, then if it turns out that constitutional judges, as I say, they vote 5:4 if they vote that something is unconstitutional and you can wave, yes, because we told you. But these are all such fast-moving predictions, more from some political bias than from some actual background. You can guess, and we can only say, we hope not, we tried not to, or we can say as little as possible. Of course, we tried to make it unconstitutional. Thinking about regulating the price. We have some of these cases in Slovenia. This is not a compulsory economic public service. We had a law about those bikes before, and we talked about how much it cost to get a technical checkup. There, too, the prices of technical checks are regulated and no constitutional assessment has been initiated at once. I believe that if there is some public interest, if it is demonstrated that the National Assembly has the right to regulate certain services or activities in such a way as to maximise prices. I also find it hard to imagine that the Constitutional Court would be the one who would tell the legislator that these and these services are an economic service and they are not. We had this debate last night. I think it was the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act. There was also a debate on what must be a compulsory economic service, what can be on the market, whether it is constitutional or not. I am convinced that, in fact, what the economic public service should be, the debate and the decision of the National Assembly and not the Constitutional Court, and I hope that the Constitutional Court will not take these powers either. Various legal dilemmas were heard. I believe that there will certainly be some shortcomings in the implementation of the law, which will then be supplemented by a new law. It's an arrangement that's completely new and we don't know it yet. But just as it was designed, I believe it's the one that will bring the least uncertainty. Comrade Lisec, you have pointed out that there will be a case where someone will have to call a chimney company from a place that will be more than 25 kilometers away to make an impossible choice. I believe that the chimney companies will find themselves in the field. One will not, one will probably fail, and one will find itself very much and new societies will come along. There is no restriction in the law that a company based in Ljubljana should have an employee chimney, for example, at home in Lendava, as well. You said. And such a company does not have to calculate the route from its seat, but it can be competitive and charge the user a significantly lower price. I believe that they will do this and that companies may prefer to employ some chimneys that live somewhere in the village or somewhere in the countryside and will be able to cover that part of the ground. So I am sure that there will be a whole bunch of ninjas in the implementation of these services, some modalities for companies to adapt to the market. As far as the prices are concerned, I might even remember that. We do, I also remember one opinion, but it may not be entirely appropriate to evaluate the constitutional judgement of the Law on the Bar. The Constitutional Court said because there is also a limited tariff, otherwise I said that I do not say it is comparable, but they did say that it is a matter of public interest, so it is possible for the State to go to the price of certain services in certain cases. I think we have that right in this law. This price, in view of its experience so far, will survive with it as many companies as possible. Of course, one competition on the market will be added to the future form of the chimney service.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Ly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u218	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, principal, distinguished colleague and colleague! Believe me, I prefer to meet a chimney boy at my house as a fireman for intervention. In doing so, I would like to say that the regulation of this area of fire safety is of paramount importance. This is another, if we ourselves are personally aware of this and are so responsible for ourselves and society. Free choice, that's very good. I'd rather meet a chimneyman at my house, which I can choose freely. However, there must be conditions for this. It's a specific case. For example, in Lendava, he has a concession chimney sweeper from Maribor. In the future, will he have an interest in applying for a license from the administrative department? I don't know. Because it is such a configuration of the terrain, areas that generate rather high transport costs. He has the right to charge travel costs if he is more than 20 kilometers away. In this case, if he is to apply to Lendava in an administrative unit, means that he will also have a seat there, that even a problem area will have to literally cover without the right to charge travel costs. This is a very big question whether he will have a business interest. Let's say he does, let's say that this happens, that I personally decide not to choose another, but I stay with the one who has the license. However, for any business, non-business reasons, a licence may be terminated or cancelled. In this case, I am forced to choose under this law by the free choice of each other's contractor. The question is, where? A specific example from the Ljutomer or the Murska Sobota. In this case, all these places and living people will be additionally burdened because they will also pay travel costs if this licensed operator charges this service. Most likely it will be because there will not be so many licensed smoker service providers. If it comes to that, it's bad. But I'm not saying, I'm not black-eyed that that's definitely gonna happen. I'm missing one of the guards, so I pointed that out. I didn't see in the law myself that if there wasn't any license in that administrative unit, it's normal, life to find the nearest one. But he can refuse for business reasons. Since I am practically at fault, I am threatened with sanctions, I will have to choose the next one that will be even more distant, and I will pay more travel costs so that I will not be in offence. I think that one guard should be appointed to prevent the licence holder from rejecting the owner of a small combustion plant for such reasons. Whether it is in the law or then under the conditions for obtaining a licence, it should be defined somewhere. If that is not the case, then the problem may be that citizens from remote areas will be severely beaten. If you give a satisfactory answer on this, my decision will be easier. I expect because only then does it make sense to go from the territorial, concessional system to the licensing, better, market-oriented system. If that's true, then it's kind of acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My opinion is that a mistake was made when the public economic service for chimney activity was abolished. The Environmental Protection Act does not cover all the complexities of this problem because, as a colleague said, chimney activity also has a major impact on fire safety and property security. This has nothing to do with environmental protection, but it is very important, and it is also very interconnected. In Slovenia, the majority of the population, about 70% live in one-bedroom facilities and each household has its own combustion plant. More. In the countryside, one family can have three, four combustion plants. I think this public economic service should remain. This would be best managed by the congregations because they are still in charge of fire safety, which is essential. If a combustion plant does not have the proper combustion, the next phase will collect soybeans, pollute the environment and slowly establish the conditions for smoke fires, which we have many, every winter. If the government wants to solve this problem in the right way, systematically, it should first analyse all fires, all chimney fires and come out of what is wrong and what needs to be fixed so that it does not happen again. I hear about at least a few smoke fires every morning in the winter. Police, criminals are at every fire, then they make a record, probably a report, and that goes somewhere. Someone should collect it, analyze it, and then come out of it. What will happen to this marriage? What did the performers point to? Here one inspection controls both users and performers. We have 800 thousand combustion plants, ten inspectors, officials, not experts. What's been going on so far, what do the performers tell me? That they reported certain users, but the inspection didn't respond because they couldn't because there were too many of these applications. What are the penalties? 60 to 100 euros. Remember, colleagues and colleagues, what penalties do we have for carriers under the Forest Act compared to this? Smokers warn of what they will do after January 1st while waiting for a choice to be chosen. First half, no one needs to pick a chimney. From then on until the end of the year, and then they're fines. The contractors warned that it would take about ten years for you to be in line with ten inspectors and that the penalty would amount to €60. What if people aren't chosen? What if the concessionaire does not obtain a licence or retire, and the activity has ceased. I think people are going to take advantage of not choosing the contractor. If they choose him, they'll be late. In remote areas there will be three performers from one village, each will go to work their own, each will charge for special transportation. Now it was different. One chimney was processed by five, six or more users in one day for informing them. And the countryside will be without this service. Services will only be provided in larger cities, in public buildings, in multi-housing facilities and the countryside will be free of charge [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate slowly? Then I'd like to give the floor to Minister Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u222	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to Article 7, paragraph 10, which states that the chimney service is provided by a smoker company which is the geographical closest to a small combustion plant if the smoker service user has called it to do so, taking into account the shortest road link between the seat of the smoker company and the small combustion plant on categorised roads where the passenger transport of cars is permitted. I still have an explanation here. In view of the uneven density of rural settlement, the Ministry provided for a solution whereby a smoker company must provide smoker services to a smoker’s user, where the smoker’s company is geographically closest to that user, in order to avoid situations where the smoker’s services user would not be able to provide smoker services due to remoteness or accessibility. Here I would like to mention that, under this law that we are adopting today, the possibility of applying for a chimney company is an option. So the owner of the combustion plant may report to the inspection service a chimney company if he is not satisfied with the service performed or if the chimney company does not provide him with the service to which he invited him. In the existing concession regime, the concessionaire was responsible for reviewing all chimneys on the ground, and we are now changing this and saying that the owner of the combustion plant is responsible for the review and therefore this obligation is also imposed on the chimney company. I have mentioned these minor improvements before, and perhaps now I would say it more in this sense, because when users were addressing us, for example, many times it was a question. We know that due to energy efficiency now due to the reduction of PM10 particles, many households have decided to burn or to improve energy in one-bedroom buildings to obtain heat exchangers. No chimneys are required for heat exchangers. If I go through these improvements again now, I would like to say that it is possible to delete the combustion plant, thereby definitively stopping the provision of services, the chimney will do so. Today, when they have built-in heat exchangers, the concessionaire does not agree not to inspect the chimney even if it is not used. Such owners of the facilities will be very fond of this solution. It's also a first checkup. It is noted that in some cases this first review is also carried out after several years of use of the combustion plant and chimney. If the concessionaire has not reviewed this facility in the period during which it operates this concession area, it is known, of course, that the first review is when the combustion plant is new, not after the concessionaire has decided to do so. I have to admit that when users approached us, it's often, it's now under quotes, what it means many times, but let's say at least 60 cases we've had applications or explanations, how now, when [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u223	Gentlemen, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u224	the concessionaires reported the owners of the combustion plants if they did not release them or allow them to inspect this combustion plant and then the proceedings went not through the inspection, but the proceedings went to court. [[…]] So in this part, if we're counting on the concessionaire being responsible for the combustion plants so far, there's a big change. So this chimney, which has a licence, of course will not be responsible for the combustion plant, will be responsible for it by the owner and via the EviDim record it will be possible to look into the meaning of the owner of the combustion plant whether this examination is entered or not. However, if it is found in one place that the neighbor is unlikely to be able to inspect the combustion plant, it will also be possible to check these matters through the inspection service. Our common concern is to ensure such health care for our citizens, not much, I have already said, but unfortunately sometimes the combustion plant or the inadequate operation of the combustion plant is the cause of death. More often, there are actually more frequent fires, even in this part it is our job to make sure that there are fewer and fewer of them. In our ministry, however, it is our duty to take care of clean air, and I am sure that through the adoption of this law these objectives will be met. It is true, however, that we are still awaiting the adoption of sub-legislative acts that will help us to have more effective control.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 7. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, this is the defence proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision setting up and the tasks of the working bodies of the State assembly. The draft decree was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly. I note that there are no applicants for discussion and I inform you that no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decision. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the motion for a decree in half an hour in the framework of the vote. I also interrupt the 16th item of the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 18.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u226	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Continue with interrupted 12. This is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law for the Establishment of Publicity, Transparency and Responsibility in Justice under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law establishing public, transparency and accountability in the judiciary is not suitable for further consideration. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u227	Thank you very much. This law, of course, is not some ordinary law that we often adopt in this national assembly. Most laws are proposed by the government. This time it's something else. It is the fact that 5,000 and more citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have taken the initiative to propose this law governing relations in justice. To make it very simple and very short, let me list just a few things that this law regulates. First time. Of course, it would be possible to record judges under this law. We can see them in all other countries proclaiming judgments, our judges are hidden. Another time. Responsibilities of judges – in other countries such as Germany, they take away 30% of the salary or pension in the case of illegal trials. That's what they suggested. Third time. In order to keep a specific record of the judges and the judgments that have been annulled, which would be a condition or criterion for the progress of the judges so that I do not list the other things. The Group of Members will vote against such a decision. In fact, it is suggested that this human law, as I call it, is not suitable for further consideration, despite the fact that on the committee the representative of the SMC Group, former and future Judge Mrs Murgel, has practically said that most of the articles are acceptable, that most members of the SMC Group are good, necessary, but will not support the law. In other words, it must be made very clear that a large majority of the members of all the coalition Polish groups have remained silent on the Committee. In elementary school, they'd say the pussy's got their tongue, say the teachers. In short, they had nothing to say. They didn't even discuss it. Some Members did not understand the content at all. I had a feeling we were on the humorous show of the Wall when I listened to Mr. Radic. What's this all about? It is, therefore, that almost 6,000 citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have proposed a law with which at least SMC agrees in principle and will vote against. In the Coalition Treaty, you have written down, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you of how you will work with citizens, how you will involve all social groups in the drafting of legislation, but your proposal for a decision indicates that you fucked the people. You'll probably pay for that in the next election. We will be against such a decision that this law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u228	Dr Jasna Murgel has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre will vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Why? We think that the aim pursued by the applicant is good, but the way he has taken it is not good, because a number of issues are in the proposed articles in the proposed regulation. Why didn't we actually not know how much we were participating in the debate? Because all relevant institutions, relevant institutions having something to say about this law, which are competent to give an opinion, such as the Legislative and Legal Service, the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court, the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, for example, the Council of State has not given an opinion at all, they have all expressed a negative opinion on this law, they have opposed the law being adopted. There was nothing left to discuss and we are therefore against the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u230	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. In your own name? Dr. Vinko Gorenak has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u231	I will take this opportunity to say, on my behalf, that such a shameful decision that you have proposed cannot be confirmed. Look, almost 6,000 people have given their opinion. However, the coalition's parliamentary groups, as we have just heard from Mrs Murgel, say that the solutions are good, but there are some shortcomings. What does that mean? Ladies and gentlemen, if you wanted to do this, you could fix it with amendments. But I am at a meeting of my mother's working body, and I think that four or five times I have asked for a word – the President, I must say that he has conducted the meeting properly – and I have invited Members, because you have a whole bunch of doctors of science and masters, tell them what is at stake, please tell them what is at stake. I've said it five times. All the MPs except Mrs. Murgle were quiet. That means there are hidden forces, demons or whatever exists in your presence, I don't know who's telling you anything. It means you have to press some button the way someone wants you to. You know, this is how you act, and this is how you exercise your will against people's will, it's not going to work. But it's a matter of your conscience. But I'm afraid you have less. I am voting against such a decision that the law is not appropriate. In fact, the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u232	Mr Branko Zorman has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u233	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, of course, I wouldn't have called if it wasn't for this shamefully directed event this morning. We all know what I'm talking about. Of course, I will support this conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration, including because I do not agree with my colleague Gorenak that the judges are legally tried. I absolutely disagree with that. I mean, the judges judge by law, don't they, Mr. Vinko?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u234	Quiet in the hall. Now there are so many of these explanations in your own name, I'm asking you to sign up. Now, please don't make fun of me. Why don't you report in first and then don't sign in? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 54 votes in favour and 16 votes in favour. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[And no one's against it.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Act after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. I'm sorry, I'm hanging up. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In New Slovenia we will vote against this law mainly because our amendment to Article 1 has not been adopted, which speaks or goes in the direction that the amended definition is deleted. On the basis of the modified definition, registration and technical checks for motorcycles shall be introduced. This was not the purpose of New Slovenia, but you simply took advantage of a void in the coalition and saw that it was possible on one side to re-register and to take a technical review from people to collect a tax, and then you packed the law so that people would now have to pay every year registrations and perform technical checks. We oppose this in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u236	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Chairman. Applicant, this is a true coalition and Mr Igor Zorčič suggests that bicycles with auxiliary engines are classified as engines. But this classification is not so innocent because it introduces technical inspection, registration and insurance for bicycles. These are so-called 25s with a maximum speed of up to 25 kilometers per hour. On average, they drive these bicycles with an auxiliary engine at a speed of 15 kilometers per hour. It is now established that we are driving these bicycles for a technical examination without a professional basis. How many accidents did this address show that these bicycles were not technically operational? I think it's a human factor in the majority, that it's too fast, that it's a matter of carelessness and other elements, but not the technical incompetence of these wheels, which the law now prescribes, that we take them to technical inspection and introduce registration. We will not follow such a procedure, which is also costly, in the Slovenian Democratic Party absolutely, and therefore we are opposed to such a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u238	We still have someone in our own name. I ask if there is anyone else on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Igor Zorčič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will adopt a bill tabled by members of the coalition. According to our assessment, the technical review is the factor that can have a significant impact on transport safety. We are all aware that the technical review obligation does not mean that we have to drive our bicycles for a technical inspection every year, but only for the first time after four years. The cost is currently €18. Given that there are now some assessments if we ask coalition colleagues, these assessments will be three times higher if we ask the Ministry, they will be smaller. We don't know how many of these vehicles are on the road, but if some people say there are 70,000, we think it's very important to ensure that these vehicles are also technically appropriate. As a result, we do not have any problems, and we estimate that the law is just as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u240	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. We have two explanations. There's more. Please sign up. Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will not support this law, the so-called Zorčič Act, for several reasons, which I have already stated in the debate, and I will repeat them. A technical review of such a vehicle, which is now under discussion, does nothing to contribute to safety. This is evident and the Ministry agrees. The technical review was requested by Mr Zorčič, as the ministry also made clear on the Committee. So this argument is irrelevant. To talk about a small cost and mention, say, €18, some cited €24, others cited €150, in this case one great cynicism, when in other cases we negotiate that a pension will increase by the euro, two of which is a major problem. In this case, we are charging everyone who has vehicles from before, not only are we talking about new, some new duty that is not minimal. Each vehicle which is now in service and is over four years of age means that it must be re-examined every year. This means that someone must take this vehicle for the first time with another vehicle, because when we adopt this law, they will no longer be allowed to go on the road. And if this isn't an extra expense for you taxpayers, then I really don't know who went to school and studied mathematics. It is absolutely impossible to support this law because it brings enormous costs when compared with pensions, salaries and so on. We are deceiving and essentially going towards people who have consciously bought certain devices, specifically vehicles or bicycles with auxiliary engines precisely because there is no need for technical inspection, no registration required and so on. I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u242	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. There's always been a matter of debate here. Is that overpriced or not? But I think this is an absolute one-of-a-kind marriage anomaly and I'm going to try to say it for a while. Those living on the Coast have been facing this problem for some time. Here, let me say that it was not only the NSI and Mr Siročič from Kopra, but we had some share of the maritime MPs that we pressured this law to change. It is simple, however, that this law had this anomaly, that these engines, which are declared 25 miles [25 km], were never, in fact, at least in the hands of young people, at least 25 kilometers [25 km] or 50 miles [50 km] limited as much as you would like. The fact was that everyone on the Coast knew that there were all the young people there, all the mullahs, whatever we call them, vehicles of two, three on a motorcycle, no helmets, and certainly not 25 kilometers an hour. That's what I guarantee you because I know them because I've seen them. However, it is important that this void is filled in in such a way that it will be technically reviewed and registered and paid in the final stage, it is said, insurance since it is known that these engines have also committed various crimes that are more marginally committed than drug addicts to criminals. [[…]] It needs to be legalized and it will know exactly what the rules of the game are and how they are served on these matters. With engines just like this driving today at this density of traffic that we have, it is irrelevant to speak, so I support this law and I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u244	Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u245	Thank you, dear colleagues, for the cameras here and for listening to this insult of sanity. Now look. The last time we found out that most of the time you didn't understand, you didn't have the look of normal socialization, what a moped is, what a bike with an auxiliary engine and what a motorcycle is. Continuation. 25 kilometers an hour, danger. Once, when I was a young man, when I was training athletics, I reached 11.2 feet [100 m] and my speed was somewhere on the 60th metre, where all the sprinters reach about 37 kilometers an hour. The dog flies 50 kilometers an hour. The dog flies about 50 to 60 kilometers an hour, and the cyclists in the sprint reach 70 kilometers an hour. Will all of these now undergo a technical examination? People should hear one story because it's not about security. If you were concerned with security, you would be repairing Slovenian roads in this mandate, building highways at an accelerated rate. You mean that your stickers of your predecessors, who also created your client's so-called technical stickers, get their sister and brother, and these are reviews of those people who are 25 kilometers an hour. It's also an insult to Tomos, because it was Tomos who was looking for his niche, his bike with an auxiliary engine up to 25. You are voting, Your Honourable colleague Ferlug and everyone else, against Tomos because he still lives in this market niche. I'm afraid everything else has wasted some time. So this is an insult to common sense. This isn't about safety. If anyone's done their engine, the police will find out, and they'll change their exhaust in the technical inspection anyway, go through a technical checkup and then change the exhaust again. So you're not going to set anything up unless you're spreading bureaucracy, you're going to spread out all the institutions that are going to get extra money. And after all, that's, we can say, stickers, part two. Of course I will vote against such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u246	Quiet in the hall, please! Another round. Please sign up. Mr Igor Zorčič has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. Now I've heard such nonsense for a long time. The introduction of some stickers was proposed by Nova Slovenije and we refused. We said we're for existing registrations. And please, my friend, you weren't here. That's what Nova Slovenija suggested. We propose that such vehicles be registered if a traffic accident occurs, that we know who caused it, if we see the registration or not, that we know who owns this vehicle. You don't know that. You're talking, 20,000, 30,000. We don't even know how many there are because they're not registered. [[...]] We're handling this now. And you were in favour of this being regulated while there was a proposal from the NSI Group, because that proposal is the same, except that it is in two laws, and now you are suddenly asking. Please! We're talking about the same thing that we're already talking about, and let's face it, we're all for this to work out. I will vote in favour, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u248	I will, before continuing and I will give the floor to the next time, ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups to report more time for the debate, because obviously there was not enough time to discuss, which is why this part, which is now intended to explain the vote, should be used for discussion. I would ask you now to limit ourselves within this from now on, because I can't make things right again, and I know that the times have passed. Explanation of the vote on my own behalf, I stress, on my own behalf, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that I will have the same opportunities as all my predecessors who have reasoned in their own name. I think we live in a democratic society and then some standards must also be respected in the National Assembly, the home of democracy. I'd like to clear one thing up first. I can't possibly say that I can't explain to myself that someone is usurping a story of their own in a way that young people in our country are called mularia. This is amazing what one of the Members and Members of the SMC has allowed. He said, the mularia is the one who does not know what is wrong with this society and who are who and what and who must be hunted at 25 kilometers of speed and so on. Look, I think it's distasteful, unacceptable for the following reasons. Young people in this society are the ones, and there are many who cannot afford a expensive car and are still happy to be able to ride with an engine that is not an engine, but a vehicle that you cannot call an engine that has a speed of 25 kilometers per hour, because we know the difference between an engine and a bicycle with an auxiliary engine – that is a huge difference, and that is not an engine. I think that this law that you're supporting is going solely and only to bureaucrats. That's right, bureaucrats. To those who, through this law, try to ensure that they receive their wages without being anything [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u250	Time's up. Mr Branko Zorman has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite the fact that colleague Breznik recommends that we also register those fast printers and cyclists who go after the clan more than 70. In short, fellas, now you're all talking about motorcycles. What kind of engines are you talking about? They're motorcycles. That's an essential difference. The engine can be electric. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u252	Please, only one has a word in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u253	I will vote in favour of this law for a purely practical reason. If someone on the road walks into you or in your personal vehicle with this vehicle, who has so far been without a category and without registration and with an unknown owner and this perpetrator escapes, then you carry this damage yourself. And I don't want to wear it alone, but I want whoever did it to wear it. And the only step to know who owns this vehicle is to register it. And that's it, the record, the registration. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u254	Looks like there's another round. Please sign up. The explanation, in its own name, is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u255	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to call, but I literally have to. I'm only going to read two quotes again from our explanation. If the thing has an electric engine and pedal, it's a bike with an engine, if it only has an electric engine and has no pedals, it's a moped, if it has a petrol engine, whether it has a pedal or not, it's a moped. Another question: how does a bicycle with an electric pedal engine reduce head injury compared to one that does not have the exact same technical capacity? These are two flowers from this marriage. I admit that today is one of the most painful days I've been in Parliament, because so much nonsense and so much fooling about what our job is supposed to be is hard to bear. Mr President, the explanations were quite enough, and on the committee and here, we could continue to take the proposal of New Slovenia, and we could get together on time, on schedule and on anything else. Experts have to cover for you in the background of our stupidity. If I put it that way. And it surprises me, in fact, we have two experienced parties here in this coalition, why you probably didn't read this precisely, because what we got was a splinter that was plagued by everyday life, with reality and with politics in some quality sense. I'll vote against it. Let's be smart, let's reject this law, let's put it back and write something normal. Like I said in the debate, I'd like this marriage to be, and we're not gonna use the word mullah, but any young fan who wants to do a little hairstyle, clear. To show him there, he reads and is written in such a language that he knows that my mother tongue is Croatian, that "intermediate gourd" is about and why it is dangerous to use it in such a way and not in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u256	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u257	We're masters of how to complicate things in this country. It has happened many times in the past, and this is exactly what happens if we adopt this law. In Novi Slovenija, we proposed, with the original form of legislative change from this area, only an identification plate in order to know exactly how many of these engines there are. The table in the case of theft, injury and compensation insurance payer and so on shall be governed by the situation. But since this proposal came from the wrong side, a few months ago a solution was announced in the quotations offered by the Modern Centre Party, namely that the identification plate will not be enough, but we will go to the registration of these vehicles. And we accept that today. So all youths, but not just youths, including those from rural and urban backgrounds, will, from now on, if we adopt this law, this amendment, have to drive our mopeds — because the definition changes — into technical checks. That old one – 70 plus an old one, and that old one – 12 plus an old one. Everybody. And what does that mean? Extra costs. And here's the difference between New Slovenia and SMC. You are in favour of additional burdens, as it seems, but we are only in favour of regulating the situation in this area and for security. That is why I will vote against making life complicated for a bunch of people in rural and urban areas and additionally burdening them with administrative obstacles and problems to drive their mopeds into city registrations.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u258	Another round? I'm asking you to sign up. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u259	Thank you very much, President for your word. I didn't mean to come by myself, but I already made it clear in the parliamentary group that I would not support this law. Why won't I support him? I come from remote places and I know the problem of older people who would have a way to register a vehicle almost 30 kilometers away, which I find completely unacceptable. It would also increase costs. We need to be aware that older people are already on minimum incomes, it makes life easier for them, the transition between one neighbour and another, and I certainly think it makes the most sense for them to remain the case as it is. But it's true that we just don't have the records of all these bikes with the engine. I will certainly vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u260	Mr Matjaž Han has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u261	Thank you very much. I stopped by because after I said that, I'm sure it'll be a lot easier to sleep. In this national assembly, we pass important laws, less important laws, and sometimes, I can honestly admit what kind of law goes past me and I don't even realize and press it. This marriage was such a marriage that he passed me, and I gave my signature for the marriage. And the more I study and the more I think about it, the more I think that marriage is really stupid. And I don't need, no, no, no. I don't need any applause because you know I'm always without hair on my tongue. Some security issues need to be settled. Now, you don't have to say that one from the countryside, and the other from the countryside, and the old ones, and so on, the engines all have. One of them bought 25 cubicles to make sure they didn't have to be registered. It's very simple. I, Igor, don't mind. I'll vote no. But I will cooperate absolutely with the next law, and I will also live by signing the law and voting against it today. But after all this debate, and even after some of the e-mails I got, and also from Primorska, when the coastal gentlemen and ladies have also told me what we're doing, I'm going to vote against it today and I'm going to sleep a little easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u262	We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 32 for them and 23 for them. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Rules following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u263	The actual definition changes. As this first article is being amended, everyone from now on will have to drive these engines for so-called technical inspections. This creates new costs, a new burden for taxpayers, an unnecessary burden, instead of having what we propose with the amendment, only identification plates. And here the key question is why needlessly burden people. Security and security are key, as accidents have occurred in the past due to such consumption. Identification plates are enough, not technical checks.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u264	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will support the amendments of New Slovenia in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will support them because there is actually no need for an auxiliary engine bike because the proposal is prepared in this style that they do not need to be carried for a technical inspection and no registration is required. However, the record of these bicycles with the auxiliary engine is being edited, because at this point we are only assessing how many of these vehicles are in Slovenia. This regulates the record and actually creates data for further decisions in the regulation of this auxiliary engine bike segment. We will support this amendment in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u266	Mr Igor Zorčič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. We will not support this amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the modern centre of this amendment, in the first place because it will not bring these solutions, which you are just stating The Registration Obligation is laid down in the Motor Vehicle Act and not in this. [[..]] And this one was just adopted. What you're saying is incorrect again. I'm sorry that some of you realize that this law is stupid. I have no problem with this because it has been prepared and developed by experts at the Ministry of Infrastructure. That the law is good, the Public Agency for Traffic Safety, the State Council thinks so they are, so I'm going to say, right now, over the thumb, they're unusual. I don't think we can go out here playing games and duck into certain debates, but we just have to accept what we think is best. If some think that the regulation of this area is unnecessary and that because someone says that some bait will be difficult to get a technical examination, people without helmets can continue to drive, unregistered vehicles, that it is such a great sacrifice, then it is also right. But I have already explained to you at the meeting itself, and the Ministry has also agreed to examine such cases if necessary, the possibility of carrying out a technical examination on the ground. The data from the Ministry of Infrastructure is that 90 000 tractor inspections are carried out on the ground. I don't think it'll be a problem to check another vehicle like that. We're not talking about 18 euros today. Tonin said earlier that he was also encouraged by Mr Slavko Ivančič, who was injured but without a helmet. Isn't that paradoxical? Now we're fighting about whether people wear helmets or not. I think it is right and it is in the benefit of the citizens, that they have registered vehicles and that they also wear helmets, which is all proposed in this law. That's why we're going to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u268	I ask if there is any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. No, no, no. Then please apply for an explanation in your own name because I saw interest. Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u269	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will support the amendment of New Slovenia, which deletes the first article. In the first article, this inconsequential dictatorship was read by my colleague Trček. If we delete the first article, we will still remain with the auxiliary engine wheels and there is no need for registration because they do not fall into the moped class, which means that even under the motor vehicle law they do not fall into this rank. Therefore, it is very important that we delete this first article in this law and thus relieve all these bicycles by means of an auxiliary engine of technical review. In the event that this amendment is not adopted, however, it actually happens that all these vehicles, which were previously presented by Comrade Trček, have been presented by a dictatorship which is not even understood by the Legislative Service, and the Ministry has not been able to explain on the Committee, will mean that all these vehicles will be moved to the moped ranking, which is clearly a wish, and will also provide the technical services and technical review with additional earnings, additional work, and the citizens with enormous costs in terms of the proceeds you expect.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u270	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u271	Look again. Everything with a common sense is torn. If this is about security, 25 km/h. 25 km/h is something other than 45 km/h. The vehicle, which weighs about 40 kg, reaches 25 km/h, is usually calculated by the engineers. This also affects traffic accidents and injuries. Now, look, a respected colleague, 25 kilometers an hour reaches every biker without any physical readiness. Will the bicycles also have to be registered and carried out technical inspections along this route? As I said before, anyone who runs to work when he's late can fly, the one who's more prepared, more than 25 kilometers an hour. Will humans be in danger? I'm 90 kilos, I'm about 28 kilometers an hour, not so much, because my condition's gone. Am I going to have to go to a technical review and, because I am late for the National Assembly, do I have to go to a technical review? This is disputed with common sense. And something else that's the worst for every system. You introduce a new administrative barrier to severe social pressures, where people do not drive with BMW 740 diesel, as does the Prime Minister, and then show up on the bike the next day. He buys a car for 150,000 euros with 740, not 730, and then he shows up with a bike. These people in the area where we live, they don't have anything but a bike with an auxiliary engine. That's why they bought it. And you're introducing a new bureaucratic barrier. Just like the predecessor of your LDS when she made a nice story with so-called technical inspection stickers. And you even had to pay for it to be taped to you. Now you're introducing this to retirees, to schoolchildren who move to school every day, or to students. This is your concern, bureaucratic obstacles, plagued by every sane mind. Every biker, every dog reaches more than 25 kilometers an hour. And you're comparing bikes with motorcycles, which is to manufacturers, to those who bought to be a stable legal environment, they bought in that good faith that they wouldn't need helmets and they wouldn't need these. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u272	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u273	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I will also support this amendment of New Slovenia in order to prevent additional costs for our citizens and citizens, because the law is a school case, we have appointed it on the Committee on Infrastructure to be Zorčič's law, and that is the case with the party SMC. And I would add here that this is the school case of the lobby. This is a lobbyist law, and this is a school case of how lobbying works in the Republic of Slovenia. By pressing the key for and when you do not support the amendment, help the lobby, burden our young and older. These engines were purchased by their parents because they were not able to drive them with another vehicle. The elderly, however, ride in the countryside from one part to another. This is a law we're working hard on in their wallets, we're charging them with, so I'm going to support this amendment. Of course, I'm appalled at this lobbying law. This is a classic example, a school case of lobbying, what we do in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u274	Is there any other explanation? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u275	Thank you, Madam President. I will support this amendment of New Slovenia because I am absolutely sure and my view is fully identified with the debate by colleague Bojana Podkrodška. Indeed, it is the pure lobbyist law of the lobbyist group, which is constantly harassing this Slovenian society, which is constantly collecting taxpayers' money from the background in a way that is then enacted by certain parties in this Parliament. Because everything is legal, there is no problem and that they can fill the pockets of those who brought these parties to Parliament and put them here. It's amazing. In my debates, I constantly warn the Slovenian people, Slovenian taxpayers, voters and voters that they have to cut once with this group, which I cannot say otherwise, but I am very sorry that I have to say that they listen to lobbyists and their interests bring them to life through legislation. This is extremely irresponsible, extremely unacceptable and against any logic of common sense, as my colleague Breznik said. What we accept today has really crossed all the limits of good taste. And if this in the SMC, in a party that talks about some such and different foundations that should apply in society, about morality, ethics and so on, you don't understand that lobbyists are forcing you to fill their pockets so that you don't understand it, I don't know how you're going to apologize to your Slovenian people for the voice you got from this Slovenian people. I don't know how you're going to excuse that. The same applies to Desus and those Members and Members who supported the previous solution. I hope they vote differently this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u276	We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 32. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 20. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 6. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the assembly has taken a decision and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Slovenian State Holding. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 3. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u277	The basic law was drafted with a view to increasing transparency in the management of state property and ensuring that the National Assembly, like the Government, has the right to propose the replacement of the Supervisory Board in accordance with the conditions set out in the law. The Coalition decided that transparency was not important, so in the second reading, it was a matter of law and decided that it was right for the National Assembly to propose a replacement of the Supervisory Council. In your second reading, however, your colleagues in the coalition have become ill-treated. You have a table today, and we will now vote on this, an amendment that accurately regulates the procedure. So you have no argument to refuse now. We will support this amendment. This amendment could, as much as possible, resolve the coalition proposal for amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u278	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u279	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will support the proposed amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We are confident that, given that the National Assembly appoints members of the Supervisory Board, it can also propose his release. Responsibility remains with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for managing state property. However, we must point out here that, in today's debate, the bulk of what the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Finance, the entire National Assembly, has deceived the public by the fact that there is an opinion of the OECD and the European Commission that such an amendment is not in line with the OECD guidelines or the European Commission. However, we would like to emphasise in the Slovenian Democratic Party that if this amendment is not voted out, as already announced by the coalition in the debate, we will also vote against the amendment of the law, because in the end, if this amendment is not voted on, there will be a victory of the law for which the coalition of the Modern Centre, Desus and Social Democrats is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u280	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 37. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Since the amendment we have proposed has not been adopted, we will vote against the law in our parliamentary group. However, I would like to say that there is a proposal before you right now, if we can even call it the bill drafted by the coalition. Our intention at the time of the introduction of the law was to finally start managing state property as necessary in these two years. We're talking about 12 billion state assets. Unfortunately, the coalition speaks one language and another works. You sell companies to postal collectors you don't even know who the owners are. Today you've drafted a law to prevent money laundering. We just wanted to make sure we knew who was buying our companies. Now you obviously want to make all customers criminals because you want to see if they're buying businesses with laundered or unwashed money. The responsibility for everything that happens to state property is on the coalition, but it's a shame that you don't overlook that everything is not as it should be. I am sorry, but we will continue to warn and agree if we do not table again the same proposal that you already had on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u282	We're voting. 67 Members and Members were present, no one voted against and 64 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 64.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on chimney services under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 7(1). We're voting. 65 Members and Members were present and 5 were voted against and 47 were present. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 7(2). We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present and 46 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 15. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour and none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 33. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour and none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 36. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour and none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 15. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against and three against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Establishment and Tasks of the Working Bodies of the National Assembly. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement on a single patent court. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! You have before you the proposal for a law on ratification of the Single Patent Court Agreement signed by 25 countries, including Slovenia, in 2013. However, the number of ratifications is increasing rapidly. The last one is the Netherlands. When I present the advantages of the agreement, let me first say that the current regime in the patent area in terms of the single European market is extremely fragmented, leaving businesses extremely high costs while at the same time creating legal unpredictability. If I make a specific case. Under the current system, an entity may exercise the rights of a European patent which becomes a national patent before the competent courts in each country. For example, there is a dispute about a patent breach and, in another country, there is a dispute about the validity of the patent before another court, where the courts may have completely conflicting decisions on the same dispute. All of this makes it extremely costly for the company and does not allow for any legal certainty or predictability. In addition to repealing that Agreement, it offers the following important advantages. The scope of patent protection will extend to the area of countries ratifying the agreement. If Slovenia does not ratify the agreement, whoever wishes to gain the validity of the European patent in Slovenia will have to validate our European patent. As this increases the costs dramatically, it is very likely that, given the small market size of this company, they will not do so. If Slovenia does not accede to the agreement, the violator from Slovenia may be sued before a national court if the breach occurs in Slovenia and at the same time before a single patent court. So before both of us at the same time, which undoubtedly means very high costs and difficult logistics of justification. In the event of ratification, Slovenia would also be able to establish a local unit of the court, which would mean the possibility that the Slovenian judge will always decide in the dispute and the possibility of using the Slovenian language and thus a substantial reduction in costs. If Slovenia does not ratify the agreement, it has no possibility to co-create the system and to influence its approximation to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises, and Slovenia also loses the possibility of appointing its candidates to the committees of the court: the Governing Board, the Budget Committee, the Advisory Committee. Also, if we don't ratify, we can't set up a local unit. Despite subsequent accession, however, it would not be possible to avoid paying the cost of setting up, since these will be proportionately divided among the countries which will join later. Slovenia also loses part of the fees, which are also paid by Slovenian single patent notifiers and returns by the distribution key to the countries that have ratified the agreement. If we do not ratify, we will also not be able to use the established education programme to obtain a licence for representatives and training for judges. Therefore, it is important to draw the line, by introducing a single-effect European patent, to establish uniform patent protection, to reduce the costs of obtaining and maintaining a patent, and to make it faster, cheaper and easier for applicants to obtain patent protection in participating Member States. In our view, the fact that the Slovenian economy is largely export-oriented is also crucial for the adoption of the ratification decision, with 75 % of companies exporting primarily to countries where the most validating of European patents is already in place, making this part of the Slovenian economy now forced to adapt to the situation in foreign markets. If we do not step on this train – the number of ratifications is growing rapidly – there is a high probability that highly innovative companies on which the Slovenian economy is based will transfer their business to other countries. All these and many other reasons favour the decision or our proposal to support the proposal for a law on ratification of the Single Court of Patents Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u284	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marinka Levičar is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u285	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group, we will vote on the proposal for a law on ratification in our own opinion. We are aware of some of the advantages of the agreement, but we also have some serious concerns about its long-term effects. Ratification would also open up the possibility for Slovenia to establish a local unit of the court, allowing Slovenia to always decide in the dispute as well as the use of the Slovenian language. At the June session, however, it was clear that the representatives of the Slovenian economy did not have the appropriate and transparent discussion and risk assessment of the new system for the Slovenian economy. Unfortunately, nothing's happened since then. We still do not have a relevant assessment of this risk, so our concern is in particular the possibility of a far-reaching, irreversible and negative impact of the ratification of this agreement on the Slovenian economy. There is a possibility to increase the number of patents in force in Slovenia, which will benefit large foreign companies in particular. The high costs of justice could cause Slovenian companies to withdraw from the market in the face of less pressure to be sued, relaxed and with certain innovative products. By entering the new single patent system, Slovenian companies will have to compete in a much more difficult patent environment than they are now. Competition under uniform patent rules will be significantly more favourable for large companies that can afford higher patenting and justification costs. That is why most of us in our delegation think it is wiser if we do not rush ratification and wait for the system to work for several years to see what impact it has on comparable economies. For this reason, we will vote in our parliamentary group on ratification, each at our own discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u286	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u287	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposal for a law on the ratification of the Single Patent Court Agreement was already on the agenda for the June session. One of the main components of the agreement is a single patent court with the main units in Paris, London and Munich, which will have exclusive competence in the process of challenging the validity and violation of unitary patents. This represents a significant change from now on in the current regime, as Slovenian companies will be sued abroad and not before Slovenian courts for alleged violations in Slovenia. More. The single patent court will also acquire jurisdiction over all European patents already granted and for all future patents granted in Slovenia. The costs of justifying abroad will be very high for our companies. In an unequal situation, all small businesses will find themselves unable to compete with foreign multinationals. It is important that the Court's units be located in the three most developed EU countries with the highest patents. An agreement that we should never have agreed to in Slovenia is a mechanism by which the core of the global economy strengthens its position and exploits its relations against the periphery. As a result, wealth flows from the periphery to the centres of the global economy and increases the wealth and social differences between the two. This agreement, at the expense of increasing the capital gains of foreign corporations, transforms our economy into their insignificant subcontractor and citizens into a cheap workforce. It is unreasonable that our government has voluntarily agreed to this. It is reasonable, however, that she has done so quietly and that there has never been a public debate about this in us – neither within the profession nor within the politics nor within the economy. That is why the agenda item of the June session was also withdrawn. Nothing has changed from the point until today. No promised public debate, no new justification, no new explanation, nothing, absolutely nothing. We have therefore proposed the withdrawal of the item from the agenda in the United Left, but the coalition has not supported and continues to insist on the adoption of harmful agreements. In the United Left, we believe that this proposal today should not be on the agenda at all but to be accepted by the coalition. We will, of course, vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u288	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u289	Dear Mr. President, good evening to all! With the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Single Patent Court Agreement, we are moving into the final phase of the long-standing process of establishing a single European patent protection system. On 10 March 2011, at the initiative of twelve Member States, including the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of the European Union adopted a Decision approving enhanced cooperation in the area of the establishment of uniform patent protection. From this point forward, the Republic of Slovenia has been closely involved in the creation of a system whereby a European patent can be obtained with a uniform effect in all Member States of enhanced cooperation. Only two ratifications are missing until the agreement is in force. It is these days that it has rounded up Belgium and Sweden's call for the parties to the agreement to ratify as soon as possible, thereby enabling the full functioning of the single European patent protection system. We are therefore deciding today on the ratification of the agreement, which has also emerged on our initiative and transparently with many discussions at the level of the working bodies of the National Assembly as well as within the framework of the professional and interested public. The final position of the Republic of Slovenia until the draft agreement on the Single Court of Patents and the draft Statute of this Court was endorsed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs of the National Assembly at the beginning of 2013. On 19 February 1013 the Republic of Slovenia, together with 23 other countries, joined the signing of the Agreement. Since 2012, numerous consultations, education and conferences have been held in the organisation of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Development. Their aim was to bring the system closer to users, to gain opinions and to make a realistic assessment of potential risks. For example, a conference entitled European patent with a single effect, opportunity and challenge was held on 5 May this year in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. It also presented a study of the Faculty of Economics on the impact of the European patent on the Slovenian economy. We were therefore surprised, in the message to the Group of the Modern Centre Party, that, during the second reading phase of the proposal for a law on ratification on the Committee on Foreign Policy, part of the public concerned had expressed strong opposition to the ratification of the agreement or had taken a stand for its postponement. In the Modern Centre Party, we have demonstrated our sensitivity to the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, for which, following the confirmation of the risk institutions concerned, the immediate ratification is too high, and we have supported the withdrawal of the point from the agenda of the July meeting. However, according to further explanations by the Government, reservations and indications regarding the harmfulness of the rapid ratification of this Agreement can be described as flat-rate, unfounded and to a certain extent narrowly interest-incentived. The early ratification of the agreement will ensure legal predictability and will benefit innovative, export-oriented companies that respect foreign intellectual property and demand it for themselves. Confirmation of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement at the same time allows us to be closely involved in shaping the final image of this system, in which we will undoubtedly enter, and to warn and try to minimize the risks to the less innovative part of the Slovenian economy during a transitional period. For the latter and for the part of the interested public, such as Slovenian patent agents and others, the immediate ratification will be an incentive to adapt immediately and avoid later shock when entering a fully operational system. The benefits are also undoubtedly derived from the immediate access to education programmes for judges and representatives and from the financial benefit derived from the refunded share of fees that the Republic of Slovenia may receive only after ratifying the agreement. We believe in a vision of the development of the Republic of Slovenia in the direction of a society based on knowledge and innovation in the modern centre's parliamentary group, with all the responsibility and care for the various entities, so we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u290	We are done with the presentation of the position of the parliamentary groups. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, amendments to the assembly cannot be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 62 Members and Members attended, 48 votes against and 11 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. On the occasion of the day-to-day review, this shall be at the confirmation of the official clearance of the text of the Maritime Code and the correction of the official clearance of the text of the Act on Working Time and Compulsory Accountability of Mobile Workers and on the recording of travel equipment. Officially purified text and correction of official purified text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The Officially Cleared Text of the Maritime Code is hereby confirmed. We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present and 60 were voted against and no one was present. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that Code. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The correction of the official consolidated text of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport is confirmed. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour and no one is against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has confirmed the correction of the officially purified text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the bill on collective management of copyright and related rights under the regular procedure. Since the Government had pointed out that, following the third hearing due to the amendments adopted, the proposal for the law was not harmonised, the Government, as the proposer of the bill, prepared the harmonisation amendment on 24th, 48th, 50th, 68th, 71st and 87th articles you received on the e-clup. Would you like to speak about the harmonisation amendment as a government representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology? No, no, no. Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? Not at all. Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment. We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present, 48 votes in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u291	Thank you, President, for your word. To avoid any confusion, we will not support this law in the SDS Group of Members, but the fact that today is clearly the day when the coalition adopts the foolish and unfortunately also the lobbyist and, above all, the non-systemic laws. This law is a typical example of a lobbyist law. When two collective organisations have apparently appeared to Members or to the Government or to the competent office and voted in law. This law is non-systematic because it takes Chapter 6 from the Systemic Law on Copyright and Related Rights and puts it into a new law. And what does this look like in our Slovenian case? The so-called ZASP has 195 members. You take from this law 22 articles and multiply them to 88. Then comes the Legal and Legislative Service, which makes almost 80 comments. Representatives of the Ministry and representatives of the coalition then lie that the amendments are prepared on a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service. And the Legal and Legal Service rejects this in almost a third of the cases. This law is bad because if it were a system law, it would be resolved in the Law on Copyright and Relative Rights, because the Law on Copyright and Relative Rights requires a lot of change. But no, you've only gone into one thing, and it's the management of collective organizations. Therefore, no one supports this law except members of the coalition, the competent office and the competent ministry and two collective organisations. It is even worse because all users expect changes to the Law on Copyright and Relative Rights, but you do not touch it. The existing law provides for the introduction of control, the introduction of transparent action, but this system has not worked. And now those who are part of the problem are making new solutions. This law introduces the possibility of theft of intellectual property, in fact, as set out in the articles. This law is contrary to the European directive in this field. This law, contrary to the European Union Directive, makes it impossible to establish new collective organisations by those who are dissatisfied with existing collective organisations. But a coalition roller doesn't care about that. It is important for them to adopt lobbyist but not systemic laws. We oppose such laws in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u292	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u293	Thank you very much. I'm going to start in the back, and that's when the Law on Copyright and Relative Rights needs to be recasted. The fact is, it's true. The only way to reach a modern law on copyright and related rights is to adopt this law on collective governance, i.e. on the management of collective organisations, because this law was a prerequisite for us to regulate the situation in collective organisations, which is actually worrying and such that it has also led to a lot of dissatisfaction by authors, users and collective organisations themselves. Of course, it is not true that collective organisations would not be satisfied with this content in all or in all order. The fact is, they were dissatisfied with a lot of this content, but mainly because the law places things in its place because it requires regulated collective organisations in the field of copyright and related rights. And that is also the main purpose of this law. I think that everything you have now heard about non-compliance has been rejected many times in all three cases of the law, and I am pleased to confirm that we have had many discussions not only with Members and with the interested public who participated in our committees and in the National Assembly, but we have also talked very much with intellectual property experts. Although perhaps marriage itself is not ideal — which one is it? – is an excellent start to a new chapter in the field of copyright and related rights. I only hope that, as such, the law will actually enter into force in practice, that the authors will be aware of what this legislation brings them and that they will approach as soon as possible the reorganisation of collective organisations as necessary. I am pleased that we have reached this point where we can adopt this law and, of course, we will be pleased to adopt this law by all Members of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u294	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 44 votes in favour and 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. Review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers of 22. 9. 2016 is published on e-club. Before we go to the vote, I would like to inform you that the proposals under the headings 14 and 15 have been adequately adjusted for the appointment of the new Minister of Finance yesterday. In accordance with Rule 249.a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the oral questions of Mr Mark Pogačnik and Mr Miha Kordiš in the work relating to the reply of the Minister without a resource responsible for the development of strategic projects and cohesion, in the role of Minister of Finance, with the title of the new Minister of Finance, have become irrelevant. In line with the proposal by Mr Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Tomaž Lisco's question on the issue of ubadars. Procedural mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u295	Mr President, thank you for the floor. If I understand you correctly, my question is irrelevant. Don't you? Then it's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u296	Only in the part that concerns the former Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u297	Okay. Thanks for the explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u298	Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u299	Thank you, President, for your word. In the parliamentary group, we hope that you will respond to our call, that we will also discuss what is happening in Slovenian forests with a serious and constructive debate in the National Assembly. The fact is, there is chaos in Slovenian forests with the help of the forest processing industry. The Minister of Agriculture deals with his client state company, for which he received a guarantee of EUR 20 million by the coalition, wood processing centres do not work and the Slovenian forest destroys the archduke. Although the Prime Minister himself said he had everything under control, this week's new information from the field shows we're facing a natural disaster. Lubadar is already near the mountains and near Pohorje. If we do not hold a thorough debate in the National Assembly, including conclusions and perhaps changes in laws, we are threatened by the end of Slovenian forests, the forests we were proud of. When we talk about the 60% coverage of Slovenia with the forest, this number is reduced daily by some kind of spring. Are we going to let the Slovenian forest and the forest-forest industry fail, or are we going to talk about it and eventually do something to end the destruction of Slovenian forests, which this small animal destroys more and more each day?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u300	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Trcko, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question by Dr Franc Trčko on the proposed change in the income scale and the problem of poverty. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 47. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jernej Vrtovac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Jerne Vrtovac's question on key health and economic measures. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u301	I asked the President of the Government what this second half would be like, is the second part of this government's mandate, what measures will be taken in the field of economics or legislation that would lead to an even greater and better economic drive, new jobs, additional jobs, and finally how will we act to stop this critical collapse of the Slovenian health system. I think it is right for the National Assembly to discuss this at one of the next meetings in order to hold a serious debate on what these structural measures should be like in order to improve the health and economic situation so that young people do not move from Slovenia. Let me mention that over the last two years Slovenia has left as many as 16,000 young people looking for an opportunity abroad because they do not get it home. And there's no future in the country that young people leave. That would make this conversation in the National Assembly, this debate on what to do, which structural reforms to adopt, which to propose both by the opposition and the coalition, very much on the spot.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u302	We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 45. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič asked Dr Vinko Gorenak about the assessment of the state of integrity, responsibility and rule of law relating to the integrity of the current government and its ministers. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u303	Thank you very much. I'll be relatively brief. I have asked the Minister a question on the grounds that the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in his report, as well as at the performance here in the National Assembly, has said a few sharp words that I agree with. He said, however, that after the adoption of the ethical code, you can imagine, the ethical code, this solves all the problems in this government's opinion, it failed to pass the integrity test in the case of those supplements for permanent readiness, as well as in the case of the other incomes of those among you who are higher education teachers. Of course, I couldn't ask the Minister about all the things because he wasn't responsible for everything, but he was responsible for himself, for his work or for his former work, if you want. We've talked a lot about him, too. We have warned you here in the parliamentary group for quite some time about how many laws this gentleman violated at a time when the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission was, and you did not believe it and you went through it. Finally, the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption said in both his report and his public performance: "I have not stepped in too many shoes, as some have told me, but I have stepped into shoes that are severely infected by the fungi of illegal activity." He went on to discuss what Mr Klemenčič was doing unlawfully. Of course, this parliamentary issue should be on the side of July, and the Minister was not here in the National Assembly. And he didn't apologize. Although he then stated that he remained in some traffic somewhere and so on, which we can believe or not, I find it a little difficult to believe, because every other word he says is actually a little fictional or false, which is why I find it hard to believe him. For the first time since 2000, as I have been monitoring the work of the National Assembly, I have seen that the Minister has not been on the matter before, nor has he apologized in advance. He didn't answer my question last time. He said that this was such an artistic expression or something similar to that of Mr Stefanec, and he did not answer that substantive question at all. I therefore ask your support for the proposal for a decision read by the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u304	We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. There were 12 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič asked Dr Vinko Gorenak about the implementation of the commitments under the coalition agreement on justice. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Well, of course, the Minister of Justice is responsible for the implementation of that part of your coalition treaty, and I stress in particular that this is your coalition contract, which should have been implemented within four years. It's been two years and I've done nine points on your coalition contract. And let's see how you do it. You will consistently respect the principles of the rule of law, you have written. In fact, you have illegally and unconstitutionally taken the mandate of the Member, but you have also done something illegal and unconstitutional. Let's say we prevented a referendum, tried at least. Interestingly, in the coalition contract you have written down that you will introduce a trial period for each judge before he will be given a permanent term of office. It's called a longer trial period. That's what your coalition contract says. Nothing has been done so far. You will have zero tolerance until corruption within the judiciary. That's great. A few days ago, Mr Štefanec issued a new report in the event of Mr Škrlec's appointment as Director-General of the State Attorney's Office, which now took account of what the Supreme Court said and found the same – that they acted corruptly. I'm asking you when you'll act if you have zero tolerance. So you write one, you do the other. You will establish transparent criteria for the appointment of judges. Nothing's been done so far. Come in. Open – this is even good – look, open dialogue with civil society, constructive involvement of all stakeholders in the drafting of legislation. Yes, bravo, today we had a representative of the people who collected almost 6,000 signatures — and what did you tell him? You said no. So why did you enter into a coalition contract to do that if you don't? Let's move on. Increased control over the implementation of lobbying legislation. You cannot do that because you are not responsible for this because an independent body is responsible, Mr Štefanec. So you're writing something like that on your mind. Come in. Establishment of a specialised court of the Republic of Slovenia. Nothing's happened yet. Regulation of land registers. Nothing happened. So if I were to evaluate your work through what you did as an assignment in another role, as a university professor, I would get a zero, not a negative five, I would get a zero. Therefore, it would be good to discuss this issue and support this proposal and tell me that I am wrong if you think I am wrong. But if you vote against it, you don't want to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u306	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 11 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Luka Mesc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zdravek's response to the question of Mr Luka Mesca's question on the adoption of the CETA Trade-Investment Agreement. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present; he voted in favour of 1 and against 49. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Dimic's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Ms Ive Dimic's question concerning the operation of the Slovenian National Forest Company, d.o.o. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It has been for several months now since the Slovenian company Slovenian National Forests. We also know that one of the priorities in setting up this company was the start-up of the wood-processing industry. What is the current situation, we know that the Slovenian timber and manufacturing industry is falling further and that the role of this state company has not been played here. The higher the added value for the cold will be because it will be processed. We know that as in the previous system of concessions, the refrigeration is sold so that it is not sold to Slovenian processing plants. From this title, I would also like a review of the operation of the Slovenian National Forests company to be carried out. I am not satisfied with the Minister's reply that for everyone, including unsecured payments or sales without bank guarantees, certain buyers are responsible for the management. The management was also responsible for the NLB 5-billion-dollar hole, and we know who was settling it or who was settling it – taxpayers. Therefore, today, so that we do not yet have to pay the taxpayers, I ask for support to carry out and review what is happening in the Slovenian National Forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u308	We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 11 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožet Tank, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irena Majcen to Mr Jožet Tank's question on the environmental aspect of the Skofljica. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 45. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Daniel Krivac, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irena Majcen to Mr Daniel Krivec's question on the implementation of the management plan for Triglav National Park. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 47. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate T. Vatovec, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zdravko Počvalska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to the question of the question of the Member of the Parliament, Mr Mate T. Vatovec, concerning the labelling of products from illegal settlements in Palestine. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with a vote of 3 to 46. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. The de facto Jew to Violeta Tomić's question regarding the implementation of sanctions against owners of dangerous animals. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 46. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Interior Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on Mrs Anje Bah Žibert's question about the procedures for finding missing persons. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 47. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of the question of the message. Branca Grims regarding the exercise of control at the Schengen border. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 49. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without the resources responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Alenka Smerkolj, to the question of mags. Mark Pogačnik concerning the use of European funds. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 46. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Mr Miha Kordiš, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in connection with the financing of higher education in the new proposal of the Higher Education Act. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 47. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m., when there are no votes, so there will be no need for common sense to leave, meet or insult our minds. Good night, as relative as ever!
