ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Vesna Vervega, Violeta Tomić, Andrej Čuš, Janez Janša, Dr. László Göncz, mag. Matej Tonin, Dr. Milan Brglez from 17 till 20:00, Matjaž Hanžek, Danilo Anton Ranc, Dr. Dragan Matić, Primož Hainz from 17:00 on, Benedict Kopmajer, Uroš Prikl and Bojan Podkrajšek. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister-General and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 13th, 14th and 15th items of the agenda, the Ombudsman, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, to the 16th item of the agenda, the Minister of Health, Ms Milojko Kolar Celarc, to the 18th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 19th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 10 October 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written applications for 39 questions from the Member States. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the Assembly of the State without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, and Mr Zdravko Počvalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, apologised for this point today, from 16:00 on. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Dr Miro Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u2	Thank you, Chairman. Good-bye, everybody! Mr. President of the Government! The trade-investment agreement between the European Union and Canada, known as CETA, is not only a threat to social and environmental standards, but is also a major threat to democracy or, more recently, a suspension of democracy. This is clearly demonstrated by the reception procedures that limit the farce so much. At the 22nd regular meeting of the Government, in the form of a recommendation, the National Assembly proposed that at EU level, "the examination and decision on the CETA agreement should be given to the Member States a sufficient period of time". Nevertheless, the Government adopted its position on the decisions of the EU Council on the CETA agreement 13. 10th, so last Thursday, today they are addressed by the National Assembly, all together one day before the meeting in Luxembourg. Since these are key actions that will also shape the fate of all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia and its democratic constitutional system in the long term, I ask you the following questions: Has the Government actually allocated sufficient time to examine this agreement and has it taken into account the State Assembly’s recommendation on a sufficient period of time? How do you justify the fact that the last position of the Government is taken in contravention of the views already adopted and in the National Assembly on TTIP and CETE? The ICS mechanism is therefore unacceptable, and CETA will certainly contain it, but it will not become subject to ratification in national parliaments alone, and it is very likely that it is also contrary to European Union law and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Under the circumstances, he asks you: Don't you trust the National Court? Does the refusal of ratification in the National Assembly mean that the agreement for the case of Slovenia will expire? What is your personal view of the consultative referendum on CETA and TTIP agreements? Does the ICS mechanism apply to concessions already granted for the use of water resources in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u3	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Matthew T. Vatovec, first of all let me make it very clear that the adoption and adoption of the CETA agreement is not a threat to democracy. On the contrary. It follows a very democratic procedure, and not least, it will be decided definitively by the respected National Assembly. It is also in other countries. Another time. This procedure is not a farce, which I will explain below. This process follows fully established standards for such matters, and both the National Assembly and the public have been informed of the individual stages and views of the Government. The government's position has been formed for a long time. If I continue to jump to this part of the answer, let me say that in fact the National Assembly has been informed in four ways about these matters. For the first time in preparation for the meetings of the European Union's working bodies. Whenever the Minister goes to the European Union's labour force, he shall be notified in advance to the competent committee of the National Assembly. Then there were the reports on the meetings, then there were the thematic meetings of the committees, and finally there were the questions of Members, where we often made clarifications on this matter. Let me make it very clear that there has been sufficient time for a good public debate on the agreement, which will lead to a final decision by the National Assembly. The government has been extremely active in this process. It has taken a very strong position and has made very strong proposals, as well as requirements for the individual content of this Agreement. Why? Because we have also assessed in government together with NGOs, together with you in the National Assembly, that if we are to sign this agreement, it is necessary to ensure, of course, all the relevant standards that we already provide in Slovenia and we want them for the future. Thus, for the first time, we have achieved together with some other countries that the agreement is defined as a mixed agreement and that part of the agreement, which has actually been disputed for many, is actually exempt from provisional application, which I will explain to you below. The mixed nature means that the national assembly will decide definitively whether this agreement for Slovenia is acceptable and I know that today is a debate and will be concluded in those days. Secondly, a large apple of the dispute was also disputed for many other countries, and especially for Slovenia, it was possible to allow dispute resolution either before national courts or in front of an arbitration tribunal of an international nature. Here we have achieved that this so-called ICS, the resolution of the dispute before this arbitration tribunal, is in fact exempt from provisional application and this way of resolving disputes will come into force only after national ratifications. This means that if the National Assembly decides to enforce it, it will, if not, be in force without this agreement and will be protected from national courts, in our case before Slovenian courts, which is of paramount importance. Thirdly, the Commission has taken into account the precautionary principle of food safety, which it also pointed out in a separate declaration. That's exactly what we've been demanding. This statement states that food standards will under no circumstances be reduced in the field of safe food and that all imported products will continue to meet the requirements of domestic legislation. Fourthly, Slovenia, and to emphasise this, was the only European Union country, that is, the Member of the European Union, which requested and achieved that a specific chapter on water, entitled Water, was included in the text of the joint declaration. CETA also reserves the right of the parties to decide for themselves how to use and protect water resources due to Slovenia's efforts. This has also been a very important decision for me, as I have invested a lot of energy, especially in the field of water resources, which are our special national wealth, to achieve such a regime that will not endanger them. Of course, I also support the early adoption of an appropriate constitutional change that will strengthen, and I hope that you will achieve this in a short time, this protection of water, the right to water in our constitution. This is now the responsibility before the National Assembly. As I said, our demands have been respected and the government has regularly reported on this in several ways. Now, honourable Members, Members, this decision is before you, and I believe that you will make the right decision in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u5	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you. Mr. President, at least you're partially deceiving. You said all the reservations Slovenia had had were taken into account. Before recently, it was clear that the ICS mechanism for Slovenia was unacceptable, totally unacceptable and is now in the text. And as you say, if Parliament ratifys it, it will then enter into force, otherwise not. But the fact is, it remains in the agreement, and whether you place at least some of your responsibility on Parliament, and you are being restrained from having to take a more active approach to this mechanism in the agreement, it would not be at all. The other thing is whether you're afraid of citizens and citizens. You have not answered my question about your position on the consultation referendum, what do you think about the fact that, for example, 60% of the population and residents of Slovenia are against such agreements and do not want to implement them. At the same time, we must also make it clear that this agreement raises a lot of doubts at the start. For the common interpretative declaration to be adopted by the signatories clearly speaks of the problem of how this treaty is written and, above all, of the fact that it is not sufficiently secured what it should be. At least you answered the water question in part. I repeat the question: Does ICS apply to already awarded concessions for water resources in Slovenia? Neither in the text of the agreement nor in the common interpretation is it clearly stated anywhere that water resources are at risk for those undertakings that already have these concessions, so that it is possible to privatise water resources in the event that there is already a system of concessions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u7	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Again, I categorically reject such insinuations, that I mislead the public, that I mislead citizens. It just doesn't hold. I made the matter very clear, I explained. First of all, honourable Member, I fear nothing of our citizens and citizens. On the contrary. The government has led the whole process in such a way that, through discussions in the National Assembly, through our statements, even my personal, very clearly aware of this agreement, I stress once again that we do not place the responsibility on Parliament, on no one. The government has adopted here very clear views, are publicly known, are also presented to you and is now up to you to accept or reject them. But the government has given reasons why they should be accepted. I would like to point out that this is not the agreement with the United States, which is also always a problem for both your client and a large part of the public. This is an agreement with Canada, which is a different nature and where our demands have been applied very firmly and managed to enforce them to the extent that I have said the agreement will not go to our detriment. I am also pleased that a specific analysis of the effects of this Agreement and an analysis of the opportunities offered to our companies will be carried out before the possible ratification of the agreement in the National Assembly. This will further shed some light on the matter. Next thing. Of course, I am not afraid of either the referendum or the citizens and citizens, as I said. The referendum is easy, but in this case it makes no sense. It is a very complex matter, on which the government and also Parliament have been in discussion for a long time, in study. We've communicated on every level. I therefore believe that there will be no need for a consultation referendum and there will be no need for it if we do, and if you Members are, above all, able to adopt a clear final position now. The government, and I repeat it, has accepted it. It's about water resources. Even before I became a politician, and even now, when I am in this role, I take a firm stand for the protection of water resources all the time. Privatisation of water resources as such is not allowed even now. Of course, it is possible to have different legal receptions so that, if we were to do so, we could have foreign multinationals or anyone who would have acquired these water resources through management, through concessions. And this has almost happened because of some decisions from the past. We're not gonna let that happen. We won't allow it! We work together here, the National Assembly, the government, everyone. I think this is our great commitment to citizens and I will always stand behind it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u9	Mrs. Iva Dimic. I'm sorry I didn't get the nod right. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you. The fact is that the President of the Government categorically denies all the allegations, but I think that the fact remains that they are not entirely correct or correct. Most eloquently, he did not clearly answer the question of whether water resources would be protected. I wanted to hear that there will be and there won't be any chance that through the ICS mechanism any company would sue the country for loss of profits or anything like that. I think that citizens and citizens today need such messages, such answers, which at least in some way will try to facilitate the fact that this government has obviously already accepted to sign this agreement. We are also working on today's acceptance of the labour force in the National Assembly, so that we do not support such a position in particular because this agreement, like it, brings a lot of problems. I think this is what we are talking about: that such unilateral statements by the European Commission, the unilateral declaration by the Republic of Slovenia, the common interpretative statement by all the signatories and so on. In short, before this Agreement enters into force or would be signed, it has so many problems that it has to be interpreted and protected against its provisions. As the representatives of the Government themselves claim in the Slovenian declaration, in this joint interpretative statement, there have been some movements and fuses. However, the fact remains that the text does not change, the text of this Agreement is in some way both with all its disputed provisions. The legal status of this common interpretative statement also has its own doubts. While the President of the National Assembly says that he is even above the text of the agreement, the fact remains that these unilateral declarations are not binding. This is still an issue that is very important, important for the future and especially for the quality of life of citizens and citizens in this Republic. Thus, in particular, these aspects should lead to an in-depth debate now that we have finally three days in the National Assembly, even at least part of the text of this Agreement, but we do not yet have a whole, such as Annexes 1 and 2, which are the most crucial. I think that there is some degree of deception, some part of the pharsic action that has nothing to do with democracy, the respected President of the Government, but it is simply a play of some bureaucratic procedures and deadlines. If we wanted to be able to decide on this, we would need a lot more time than you're offering us, so I suggest that we have at least a general debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u11	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, your proposal will be decided on Wednesday, 19. October, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Citizens and citizens are increasingly dissatisfied with the situation in our justice. They feel that double standards apply in our country. One for those ordinary citizens and the other for those clever, so-called brilliant citizens. One of the last cases that has greatly upset the Slovenian public is the case of Igor Bavčar. Minister Klemenčič has rushed with a statement that in case of weariness, heads will fly. We cannot imagine that Minister Klemenčič's statement would be intended solely for a specific case against Mr Bavčar. His statement is therefore understood as a forecast for serious action, which will in the future prevent aging in such reverberating cases as Bavčar and Jankovic. It is precisely such cases, in which everything in Slovenia is too often obsolete, that have the most direct impact on the trust and opinion of people on the judiciary and even on the performance of our country. The latter added to the burden of disclosure of the wills of the courts. Dear Prime Minister of the Government: Will the head of the Minister of Justice also fly in the event of the cases being outdated? Can we conclude from this case that there will be a judicial reform where judicial proceedings that will end in deadlines will be expedited and they will not expire? What measures do you intend to take to ensure that there will be no obsolescence in retroactive cases? How big and, if so, is there a great danger of ageing, in your opinion, in matters that run against Mr Jankovic and other rebuttal cases? We have many of these cases in Slovenia. In addition to Bavčar and Jankovic, who are most likely to be the focus of attention at this time, will you pay special attention to the fact that the procedures will not become obsolete and thus cause additional costs to the state? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u13	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic, thank you for the question. As a lawyer and President of the Government, I am particularly aware of the importance of the rule of law, in line with the commitment I have made when I am elected, so I am constantly working with other ministers, especially the Minister of Justice, to improve this situation significantly. With this statement by Minister Klemenčič, which was expressed inappropriately, he actually expressed something that we all feel, even ourselves. For every citizen feels some pain, frustration, even anger, when some kind of procedure such as the procedure against Mr Bavčar or someone else is outdated. That's something we have to end in the future. I'll talk about it later. But it's a fact that it's not just that. There are also some other irregularities and errors that can happen everywhere, but they happen in justice too often. This will story, too, is a reminder to the judiciary that it must no longer be done in the future. The government is active here, it's active, and it's already done something. She'll do more in this and in the coming years. Speaking at the level of legislation, let me say that last year last July we adopted a amendment to the Penal Code, in which we explicitly stated that the limitation of the execution of the sentence does not take place at a time when the convicted person is on the run before the execution of the sentence or otherwise avoids the execution of the sentence. Thus, we have already taken the first step here to prevent such obsolescences, which are the result of some machinations, sometimes involving others. We know that sometimes medical excuses are obtained in one way or another; we know that defendants escape in such and other ways of the judiciary, that is very bad, and that is some kind of measure. Furthermore, in 2015 we have also implemented the new Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, which allows the deployment of district judges to district courts, thus achieving a more even burden on judges now, meaning a faster or more effective trial, and thus preventing major backlogs or outages. This year, the Minister gave his consent to the time standards for the work of the courts, which is such a concrete measure to speed up proceedings. It prescribed that the description part of the annual report should also detail the reasons for the longevity of the procedures. While we know that in recent years the number of backlogs has been falling, they have been falling in the courts, so the trend is the right one, going in the right direction. As far as the statutes are concerned, let me say that in 2006-2010 they were on average 198 per year. Over the period 2012-2015, a total of 65 cases per year were obsolete, which is already a significant decline, and by the end of May this year, 19 cases were obsolete by the beginning of June, which suggests that this decline will continue. Of course, no obsolescence is excusable, so we are working intensively to remedy it. This will also be done with the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, where we will better regulate the appeal procedure, which will reduce the number of referrals from a higher court to a first-degree court and allow for faster legal and criminal proceedings. We will introduce a single First Instance Judge, one of the priority measures for a more balanced burden on judges and quicker procedures. We will prepare amendments and implement amendments to judicial legislation on the judicial network in order to better distribute work here as well. Amendments to the Rules of Procedure will allow the public to have an overview of the Court's records, so that the Court's supervisor can also allow the public to monitor the duration of the individual proceedings. In this way, measures have already been taken, backlogs are being implemented, or even backlogs are falling. But I have to say something, I think it's very important that we know that the government can launch investigations, like, in the last medical case. This is the Ministry's work and so on. However, once the case has been brought before the judicial authorities, especially before a court, the court acts as independent of the executive branch. Therefore, the government must not put pressure on the court in unacceptable ways; it can help by making changes to the law, by what I have said, what we are doing. Therefore, I expect that judges, as well as prosecutors, will be more individualised in the future, including by name and surname, taking responsibility for such cases as we need politicians and others to know who is clearly responsible and will be even less responsible for this. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u15	Mrs. Eva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government for your answer. Indeed, as you said at the outset — a successful democracy or a democracy in which we trust, stand or fall in the rule of law is said to stand or fall on justice. This all affects the feelings, the feelings of our citizens and citizens. However, given your answer, I would like to summarise the matter that we can expect or ensure that judicial proceedings in these cases are not obsolete, that you, as well as, of course, the Minister of Justice, will strive and assure citizens and citizens that we will nevertheless get to the epilogue in certain cases. I wish there hadn't been 65 lapses in the last three, four years, because people simply don't have confidence in the rule of law anymore. That's what people need to get back at. Of course, I cannot help but touch on the unexecuted wills of which there were a lot of speeches last week. I understand here that this is a great reminder to the judiciary, according to your words, that we will also be able to talk about subjective responsibility in the courts where this occurred. I thank you for your reply and your assurance that we will all start building the rule of law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u17	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The purpose, of course, is shared. We all want even better legal states, more effective justice. But as we say, trends are already going this way. They need to be encouraged and prevented from abuse, deviations, mistakes. Let me make it very clear that, according to my assessment, we will not do this, we will not succeed in this way if we only criticize flat-rate justice, throw everything into the same basket. Similarly, health care may be a problem, many others. In all these systems, there are many people who do their work well and honestly. Therefore, we need to make it very clear that they need to be encouraged to find among themselves those who work, I would say, harm in reputation and are doing harm to the whole country and to citizens and citizens. I don't think anyone can give a guarantee instead of a court that the proceedings will not be outdated. I am making sure that the government does everything it has to do, and will continue to allow the judiciary all the conditions so that this does not happen. But the judiciary only has to accept responsibility, if that still happens. That is why procedures are envisaged, disciplinary and others, and I believe that they will be increasingly used and implemented in the future. However, I think it is only necessary to stress that we must respect institutions, both the judiciary and the prosecution, both other institutions in society, and to show this respect to all those who do what is right. Those who do wrong on purpose, wrong, are corrupt, and those who do wrong must be prosecuted relentlessly — here I think we are on the same side — we must exercise their subjective responsibility. We will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u19	Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much again. About a month ago, we made a recommendation in the National Assembly regarding the change in the urgent changes in justice. Of course, one of these changes was also a change in the composition of the Council of Justice, which is probably one of the key changes in the Slovenian legal system and is also a constitutional category. That is why I would like a broader debate to take place and also look at if there is enough political will to see the beginning of such a change in our National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u21	Mrs Iva Dimic will decide on your proposal on Wednesday 19 October in the framework of the votes. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! I am asking the President of the Government a question regarding the arrival of Uber in Slovenia. The area of the collaborative economy has already been present in the National Assembly and the President of the Government has stated that the solution has been taken over by the Interdepartmental Commission, which has identified the flood of regulations and the complexity of the regime and that solutions are not yet ahead of us and that we are still far from a solution. Of course, the problem of the informal economy in Slovenia is very large because neither tax legislation nor labour legislation are regulated. I am therefore particularly surprised that the Minister of this Government in America is signing a letter of intent on the arrival of a company that is typical of looking at European cities, and is a representative of the informal economy with all the problems mentioned above. That's why I want to know: What are the positive employment opportunities that you mention, which is addressed by the Minister of Public Administration, but is not addressed by the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of the Economy, and on what basis have you found this? I'm curious. How do you plan to protect the jobs of taxi drivers so far, and how will you solve the violations of labour rights, as some places in Germany and Italy have done? In Slovenia, there is a problem of the chastity economy. This problem causes young people to be unable to create families, to develop independent lives, and therefore to go abroad. The last question I'm interested in is: How do you plan to strengthen inspection in these areas, as similar forms of work are already taking place? How will you solve the problem of independent entrepreneurship in relation to entrepreneurship, where it has a working relationship, that there will be no such issues as we now see in Slovenia, when people no longer have money to survive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u23	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you for the question, Mr President, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek. Let me first point out that the government's vision is certainly the modernisation of Slovenia. Look to the future and go into this future, step into it, by adapting our development processes to what is happening in the world today, so that we can be competitive and thus increase the quality of living standards and ensure growth and development for the country. The so-called fourth industrial revolution is practically here. That's why the way we operate is changing. And from week to week, from month to month, we see it ourselves. Slovenia is a country with many opportunities, and I hope that there is enough optimism and will to take advantage of these opportunities because we have to. Here we have to be brave, confident, move on with development, otherwise development will get ahead of us and we'll stay somewhere by the side. But how do we introduce you to the news? With dialogue, we are talking about this, of course, in the spirit of modernisation, with soundness of mind and also with a healthy degree of criticism, which is also intended for this issue. You know that the European Commission has already adopted the European agenda for a collaborative economy and that is why in our country, as a whole of Europe, all the legislative changes that are necessary for the implementation of this cooperative economy, i.e. in Slovenia, will have to be implemented. The Ministry, which deals with development solutions in our country, and in this sense, I was also present at a visit to America when we discussed the digital development of Slovenia, the digitisation of Slovenia, the digitisation of Slovenia, Slovenia as a reference country in this area. The Ministry of Public Administration and Minister Koprivnikar has defined powers here, as well as the role of co-ordinator of government activities in the field of digital transformation. I appointed him to this role myself, because the government needs such a link here. That is why he also signed a letter of intent with Uber in the United States when he was recently there. The direct implementation of such a service will only be possible once all legal conditions have been met and further agreements have been concluded for this co-organisation or enterprise. By the end of the year, the Ministry of Infrastructure is expected to prepare a proposal for amendments to the Road Transport Act. This is a step forward, but we will by no means allow the rights of workers, in this case taxi drivers, to be violated or exploited. And to stress this, the decision will also be in the hands of the National Assembly. If these agreements are reached, these intentions will not only be decided by the government but also by the well-respected National Assembly. The fact is that Uber, by its activity, is bringing about radical changes in urban mobility. It also has a positive impact on employment opportunities and overall economic development and on quality of life in general. It currently operates in more than 500 cities in the world and, among other things, in 21 European Union countries, i.e. the European Union, including our neighbours, in Croatia, Austria and Italy. Slovenia is a small island, which I hope is still on time for this train. Uber's services complement the public passenger transport system and reduce the need for private car ownership, which is crucial for the development of green and smart future sites. We want a green Slovenia, digitally managed cities, smart cities and the like. These transports provided by Uber are especially welcome in tourist destinations such as our capital, Ljubljana, the green capital of Europe 2016. And we know the importance of tourism for Slovenia. Thus, these new technologies and collaborative platforms offer us new and new opportunities in these areas, as well as in the area of inspection, which is your third question, because the key to solutions here is not always in some human resources reinforcements, but, on the contrary, technology and science today allow us to take advantage of opportunities for greater quality of this control also through traceability, system modernisation, digitisation, productivity and all that makes possible today's technical development. I would like to point out that I can answer all these questions by saying that we are going into the matter in a thoughtful, gradual manner and that we will ensure that no one will be discriminated against, at least by our taxi drivers and workers, because that would be unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u25	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you. We see that the pattern repeats itself as it did in the first question, and the responsibility rests with the National Assembly. The National Assembly will decide whether or not to amend the legislation. Here again, the issue of the rule of law is that a multinational is trying to make a change of law and that legislation will not be for the benefit of the people. If we are talking about the Minister of Public Administration, we see that there are a whole bunch of problems in the public administration, sentences are being prepared, and it would be better for the Minister to solve these problems. Of course, information is needed, but on legal grounds. The collaborative economy has been conceived as cooperative in the Scandinavian model, but in some cases it has evolved in the opposite direction – in the exploitation of human beings. There remain open questions to which I would like an answer: Who and how does he pay for insurance? Where will Uber's tax be paid? What's it gonna be like in case of an accident? Who will be responsible? How's it gonna work with the technical checks? What's it gonna be like with the licenses? So here's a whole bunch of open questions: What's going to happen to these people's insurance? How are these people going to go to the hospital? How will they benefit from their vacation? How will they realize their family life if they have to be available 24 hours a day? Of course, these questions are numerous, and I am particularly interested in: How will taxes be paid, where taxes will be paid, how will this be controlled? How will the legislative process be conducted so as not to be abused? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u27	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I am surprised by your question, Mr Member, in that sense, when you say so, again the responsibility lies with the state choice. The National Assembly adopts laws — how else can it be done? The government accepts its responsibility, accepts the proposal, we make it clear what we are proposing, we are behind it, we are not afraid of it, and we call it bob beans. Yeah, well, then you have to take the law. We, however, adopt regulations and other acts on the government and implement policies. I hope there's no question here whether you're afraid of taking responsibility for the adoption of the law. I'd say so. Exploiting a man, yeah, happens a lot. Even in Slovenia, we found out. We must all fight against it, put an end to these matters and prevent them. But now these questions of yours, how about insurance, how about taxes, how about accidents, how about technical checks, yeah, this is just the process. [[…]] Now we've only signed a letter of intent. Let's take it one step at a time. Now the ministries that are responsible, which have done this work, will begin to negotiate, coordinate inter-departmentally, and we will finally take decisions following normal procedures. Scaring people, but now they're going to take advantage of you, and I don't think it's appropriate in that sense. The task of the government and the National Assembly is not to allow this to be accepted by such proposals and laws, so that this will not happen. But there's something we need to be aware of. But we will also have to work if we are to have a society for the future. It will also be necessary to make bold decisions about a solution, not just to wait for all around us to make these decisions. Slovenia is supposed to – what? Stand still? Slovenia must move forward and therefore we must also face such challenges. Of course, not only courageously, but also thoughtfully. I assure you that the government will do its job here, and I am sure that there will also be a national assembly, that we will not take decisions that will be discriminatory for our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u29	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you. In view of the many unanswered questions, I expect my proposal to be supported to open the debate on the subject. In the entire spectrum of the National Assembly, I expect support to this issue, one of the parties that advocates that the future of Slovenia is on young people and on the family and on family life, the other on those who advocate labour rights and the regulation of working status in accordance with legislation. Of course, I would point out that in many German cities, if you have already cited some cases, Uber is forbidden. Also in Milan. Because of the competitive clause. And more and more people are aware of these kinds of problems. Of course, I'm afraid this is just the first step, in which case this is transport. You might wonder how far the government will go. For example, if we take the case, we all have paper and pencil, so we can become all journalists in our free time tomorrow, and by the example of Uber, who only collects 20% to 30% of our commission, we are making unfair competition for all other professions. We need to be aware of what and where a digital society wants. My proposal is to have a digital society on an existing platform. Why do we have to go to platforms like these? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u31	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 October 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Anita Koleša, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u32	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Mr President of the Government, my question today opens up a subject that many probably do not want to talk about much, and yet others do not spend the day to keep it from being repeated and mentioned, even at the time that is approaching us, at the time of the memory of the dead, and on the day that most of us know where our ancestors and our loved ones have found eternal rest. Sadly, in this country, many still live only in the hope that they will someday find out. Slovenian soils are marked with hidden war graves. That's a fact. I know stories from around the place where I'm home, stories that have been sharing Slovenians for decades, or half the generation of Slovenes and Slovenians. We know there are open questions. However, as you yourself said a year ago when we adopted the Law on Covered Military Cemeteries and the Buried Victims in this National Assembly, these questions are not insurmountable. That is why it was and still makes sense to invest a lot of will, dialogue and energy to overcome them. I do not want to politicize, and by no means do I intend to open wounds or caves with this question, but only to stress what is the only and most reasonable decision that after 70 years of political dissipation in Slovenian society is the time to bury all the dead. I think we've taken the first and the right steps, but I'm afraid that this path would not stop us from kneeling under the weight of the backpack in which we've been putting such heavy burdens for years and decades. I ask you, Mr. President, let us know: What has our government done in the area of detecting, arranging hidden war graves so far? What work is in progress, and what activities are we still planning for the future? On behalf of my Members, colleagues, colleagues, and on behalf of the people who have not lost hope because of us, I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u33	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I really appreciate that, and I appreciate everyone who hasn't lost hope. I don't think that we have to take this process of reconciliation between us, this process of pietically treating the dead, and I would say the process of closing the pain to move forward, to get to some point when we are tempted to say in this respect we can normally feel that we are some civilized society that is moving forward. This in the light of the recent beginning of the transfer of the remains from the Huda Cave to the Dobrava Memorial Park, I particularly welcome this question of yours. In this sense, I am kind of pleased to say that the New Slovenia and the Party of the modern SMC centre in the National Assembly launched a time ago adoption of the Law on Hidden Cemeteries, which allowed a step forward in terms of this reconciliation and closing of our wounds, because we are truly obliged to leave some society of opportunity and development that will not always be shared in ours and yours. I think we're going slowly forward here and I'm appealing here for patience and actually for some cooperation. Last year, as you know, there was this adoption of the War Cemetery Act. This was some cooperation between the opposition and the work of the coalition, as the only coalition party supported this last year, and by this law we in fact transferred this responsibility of protecting hidden military graves to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which allowed certain activities that had not been able to take place sufficiently. The Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken over the activities, detection of hidden military graves to address the issues of hidden graves. I personally met with the members of the commission myself and pledged that her work would continue and be done with dignity. We provided funds for the work of the Commission at that time, which was provided by the Ministry of Economy at half a million, namely 500 thousand euros. The Commission is actively implementing this year's work programme. This year's programme includes the arrangements for 60 hidden war graves to the stage that will allow the preparation of a proposal for the registration of graves in the War Cemetery Register; the excavation and burial of victims from 18 hidden war graves; the confirmation or probe of 45 hidden war graves; the drilling or drilling of the Mine Cave of Pečovnik; and the examination and sanitary amount of post-mortem remains from 16 karst caves and beehives. This year, the postmortem remains from the grave of St. Barbara continued in the Hudi Cave. The first approximately 700 remains of the victims were already transported to the Dobrava Memorial Park near Maribor, where they will be buried with dignity at the end of the month. A burial and a decent burial of the remains of other victims from St. Barbara's trench, estimated at about 2,000 to 500, is expected to be completed in the coming year. This also rekindles in some way the initiative for the final regulation of the Teharje Memorial Park, which is to become the central Slovenian feature and possibly also a cemetery dedicated to the victims of war and post-war revolutionary violence. Any solution in this direction will be adopted over time, however we will carry out these further steps, it is important that we work patiently with them, to make them with a pathetic attitude towards the dead, to our history, even to their painful moments and times that have been really severe, and to draw lessons into the present and future, so that these mistakes will not be repeated, that we will bow some respect to all the dead and thus start building the foundations of the future Slovenian society. I really want to, and I'm trying very hard to make this happen. I will support the work of the Commission, the ministries and everyone else and anyone who will contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u35	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, should answer the questions of mags. Branislav Rajić in connection with the reorganisation of the network of diplomatic and consular representations in the countries of the African continent as well as Dr. Mate T. Vatovec in connection with the destruction of products from illegal settlements in Palestine, but is absent today due to his visit to the Holy See and the Sovereign Maltese Knight Order in the Vatican. I ask the Member whether they insist on an oral answer or whether they want a written answer. The Minister will therefore answer orally at the next meeting of the assembly. Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, will now answer Mr Bojan Podkorška's question regarding the implementation of the Law on Public Procurement of Local Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you, President. I am responsible to the honourable Member that the Public Procurement Act, in Article 66, provides that the municipality is to be authorised to carry out the procurement procedure of the local community. And only the congregation can actually execute such a public contract because the law stems from the view that local communities form a common part of a unit of organization called the congregation. To this end, the legislator wanted to ensure that procurement procedures in the municipalities were conducted in a more transparent and, above all, more cost-effective manner, without prejudice to the rights to carry out the tasks of the local communities, which were set up to regulate the premises, local economic services, to build and maintain roads, to manage property and so on. At the same time, this is without prejudice to the possibility that local communities may have their budget lines within municipal budgets, and is in no way prejudice to determining the law itself, how it is available to the funds on which the items are located and so on. The Public Procurement Act is also simply based on the view that even smaller parts of municipal administrations cannot adopt general acts, cannot provide for public service regimes. Since they do not have employees, in the spirit of drafting the law we thus ensure the concentration of the performance of public procurement tasks, the improvement of the quality of public procurement and the reduction of errors, since only the municipalities have a human resources structure to do so. By doing so, the Public Procurement Act advocates a purely logical way of operating the congregations. In view of the evidence on a number of issues, I have examined and found that five questions have been raised in this regard. We have also published an explanation in May for any possible uncertainties in this area. In view of the fact that we have received over 300 questions in relation to this Public Procurement Act, the third version, we also note that this is probably not a problem that we would consider very controversial. According to my personal assessment, the logical, meaningful, quality and transparent way of ordering both the municipalities and their smaller parts is also regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u37	We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor to ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! There is nothing more naive than to think that the migrant crisis is over, even though such a feeling under the influence of the dominant media is also being strengthened in Slovenia. The actual situation is as follows. The daily influx of migrants has increased dramatically through the Mediterranean to Italy, including five and even six thousand people a day. Similarly, the influx of migrants along the so-called Balkan route has increased ten times and ten times, only that now the illegal movement of migrants is no longer allowed by the government, but is being dealt with by various criminal associations. In a way, we would say that the situation is more natural than it was last year, when the government acted as the largest criminal association in the movement of migrants in Europe. The third inflow, which is hardly mentioned in Slovenia, is also taking place through the Mediterranean in the direction of Spain and France. There, too, has been a significant increase in numbers in the last period. If we add all of this together, we will actually get very similar numbers as we saw them last fall — at this very moment. But things can get even worse very quickly, because it is clear that if Turkey does not want to commit a collective suicide, it will not be able to accept anything. In Macedonia, they are now defending the European Union in some way, which is a paradox. The country that is the European Union is in no way able to integrate itself is now doing what the European Union should do at the external borders. At the same time, however, the number of migrants in Greece is on the rise, it is on the rise, and sooner or later the flow will be diverted slightly differently, or in one way or another it will be further relaxed. All of this means to Slovenia that it can very quickly be found in a situation where it is exposed twice. On the one hand, because of this inflow to Italy, which Europe naively allows by even accompanying convoys of migrants to Italy, and on the other hand because of all those routes where the flow is now scattered, including the Balkan route, the number of asylum seekers can be greatly increased on Slovenian borders or on Slovenian territory. This has already increased exponentially over the last period. That's why I'm asking the Minister: What number should the Government therefore also consider to be subject to specific restrictive measures? You know my position. Migrants should not be accepted at all for security, social and all other reasons, because Slovenia cannot do so. But I'm asking the government, which number would it be yours? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u39	Minister of the Interior, mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Chairman. Commissioner, I thank you for the question and I agree that the migration crisis is not over and is still going on. That is why we are also monitoring the situation daily and are also preparing for a possible deterioration of the migration picture, because illegal migration is a fact that we will face in future times. I am also convinced that you are well aware of all the security, organisational and legislative measures we are preparing for possible more extensive illegal migration. Above all, we are preparing legislative measures in the event that mechanisms and arrangements are eased and that Slovenia will then be under great pressure from irregular migration. You asked me a question about restrictive measures or, specifically, the number of applicants for international protection. These restrictive measures, which we foresee, are in the draft amendments to the Foreigners Act, which has not yet been adopted. The Government has not yet confirmed this proposal. Today, in a few hours, we have a final coalition coordination right on this proposal. However, I can tell you some things in this place. So the first thing is that capacity is limited, as far as the Republic of Slovenia is concerned, does not, in fact, constitute a large number of illegal migrants or applicants for international protection or are very limited. But I can also tell you something about the proposal for amendments to the Aliens Act. In particular, from the point of view of the fundamental concept on which these proposals are based and which we have not changed and will not, I believe that our proposals are very thoughtful and balanced in view of the situation in anticipation of the fact that the circumstances will not be the same as those already experienced. It is perfectly clear that transit will not be. This means an expected increase in asylum applications that can lead to a break in the asylum system, which can then lead to a threat to public order and internal security, even if the countries before us decide on certain highly controversial practices that we have experienced in the past. It should also be borne in mind that our police are protecting the external Schengen border, which is a special burden. Our proposal, which relates to these restrictive measures mentioned by you, specifically refers to the reasons for public order and internal security. Finally, the Treaty on European Union in its 72nd Article also allows derogations from Union secondary legislation where this is necessary in order to maintain public order and internal security. Your question is somehow based in a direction – where is the point of a breakthrough where things could be treated substantially differently? In view of the fact that this law has not yet been passed, I can tell you that, as far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, the assumption of emergency situations does not apply to us, because I do not think that we should allow them or we should not wait for an emergency. Finally, the European Council has recently pointed out that there is a need to reduce opportunism or the potential for abuse of asylum systems in mass migration and that there is a need to follow the fundamental concept that illegal migration should be stopped at the external borders of the European Union and then subject to this system, which will be sustainable for the European Union. In our proposal, there is also a preventive component in the way this law is designed. because I have also said publicly in the past that I believe that Slovenia is not obliged to collapse under applications for international protection, we are too small or we are not obliged to reach those critical points which, according to different interpretations, would be, under all the constraints that we have, because, last but not least, countries cannot be placed on the common denominator – both by absorption power, by economic power, by demographic needs, by integration potential and so on. Our proposals, which have not yet been adopted, are intended to prevent accumulation in our territory, taking into account limited capacities and also certain bad experiences from the past, and especially the fact that we are surrounded by the very safe Member States of the European Union, so these are safe countries, on the basis of the fundamental premise that our proposal also respects the fundamental postulate of refugee law – this is the principle of non-refoulement that persons who are also supposed to be persecuted would not return to countries where they would not be safe. The Ministry of the Interior takes the view that Slovenia needs a national measure aimed at effectively managing mass illegal immigration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u41	Master Branko Grimes, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you. The answer was extensive and interesting, but it simply avoided the key question of when is the point at which Slovenia, according to a government assessment, could still be able to do so. It would be totally unacceptable, I argue that it is also unconstitutional if we allow any kind of security breach or social or other key system in Slovenia due to the migration crisis. This means that when weighing constitutional values, they would prefer one to the other. So there must be specific quantifiable numbers and estimates here. And I firmly believe that such assessments exist. This whole problem wouldn't have happened if your coalition hadn't let you down about a year ago on that amendment that I'm saying was the only really good thing you've proposed so far in this area. It is that someone who comes across a safe country into Slovenia here simply cannot apply for asylum because this, by the way, follows from international conventions. This is only in line with international treaties, no matter what they claim. This is said to be a small number of truly eligible asylum seekers, such as coming by sea or by air and so forth. While everyone else is entering through safe countries and under international law, we should apply for asylum in the first safe country where they enter the European Union. And then the decision in the European Union applies to everyone. As a result, I have been warning from the outset that everything is illegal, what is happening, with what it is, and also with the current quotas. This is also illegal and essentially a derogation from the signed and applicable international acts. But here I repeat the key question: What do you think is the number at which these additional restrictive measures should also enter into force after your government assessment, because they must be as low as possible in order to prevent any system from breaking? Even if [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u43	Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much, President. If you remember, we have in fact taken into account our limitations in all our proposals and solutions. We also said in reallocation that this solidarity also has limitations and that it is necessary to look at the issue in a flexible way in the sense that solidarity can also be expressed through equipment, police and so on. With regard to the number, it is certainly not possible to talk definitively about any mathematical figures today, given that it will also depend on the real situation. Of course, the problem arises with limited capacity. We know that the Republic of Slovenia is a small country, has very limited capacities, and if there is a break in the asylum system or a shortage of capacity to such an extent that it could break into a situation that could then pose a threat to internal security and public order, it is one of the essential elements that will also need to be taken into account. This law, which has not yet been adopted, has certain criteria which will then be followed, given that this legislative proposal will be revised to the situation on the ground or even to the situation in the region. We have foreseen that, in fact, given that the Ministry of the Interior is the one who regularly monitors the situation in the field of migration, primarily on the basis of information from the State authorities, other Member States of the European Union, third countries, institutions of the European Union, relevant international and intergovernmental organisations, we are the ones who would then give a written justification as to when this measure should enter into force, taking into account the situation in the countries from which foreigners intend to enter or enter the Republic of Slovenia, and the situation in the area of migration in the countries of the region, their number, the number of illegal aliens and foreigners with a decision to allow detention in the Republic of Slovenia, the number of applicants for international protection, the number of persons with recognised international protection in the Republic of Slovenia, namely those already in the Republic of Slovenia and the accommodation and integration capabilities of the Republic of Slovenia for all restricted categories of foreigners. This is the restrictive measure you are referring to. Once again, I must point out that it has not yet been accepted, but as I did in our debates at the time of amending the Law on International Protection, I believe that international protection is not subordinate to freedom of movement, and I am not really sure that these proposals affect prima facie's right to asylum, specifically from the Republic of Croatia. We know that the measure applies exclusively to persons entering the Republic of Slovenia from the safe countries themselves, i.e. from the Member States of the European Union, subject to the same standards of the common European asylum system. Finally, the new European legislation is aimed at requesting international protection in the European Union in the first Member State of the European Union to enter the European Union illegally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u45	Mag. Branko Grims, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you. I propose that this is actually being discussed. The last words of the Minister, which I strongly agree with, also point to the dimension of the problem. Everyone enters Slovenia through safe countries, the fact is that it is not relevant for us to remain as much as what is in our immediate neighborhood, because we take responsibility for someone else, as well as for the costs and difficulties for someone else. And it's unnecessary. This requires that we be realistic and, above all, protect our own interests. As do all the normal countries of this world that give the safety and well-being of their citizens and citizens first. Only when this is taken care of, and completely and without exception, can you help others. And in a reasonable way. By the way, in this case, help would be where these people come from, to create safe areas there, to run economies there, so that people could live there normally. Importing migrants into Europe is only an introduction of foreign wars and foreign armies to European soil. And believe me, this isn't going to end well. That is why I do not understand why the Government has rejected so many times any proposed hand by the opposition when it comes to the exercise of Slovenian interests, because it is the levers it needs to negotiate more successfully against the European Union and that they understand there that Slovenia has limited capacity, because it is not a joke. You need to know that at the European Commission's tables, once again, the controversial proposal to increase quotas, to demand a quarter of a million euros for each migrant, which, under the very mandatory quotas set by the European Union, some countries would not accept, and so on. These things need to be taken very seriously and acted in time. In view of all this, I propose that this be discussed in the National Assembly, in which we can then also take a more realistic view of what it is like to have international acts, that what is necessary is respected, but that no unnecessary burden is placed on the security, not the economic, or social, of our country, and that we should, above all, meet once again on that point, which I am convinced should have a common consensus at the outset that no foreign or foreign community right can be over the right of every citizen and every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia to security, to personal integrity, to prosperity, to a consistent and indivisible respect for constitutional rights. It is a postulate of the Slovenian Constitution. This is the one that, I firmly believe, should be subject to consensus in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u47	Mag. Branko Grims, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 October 2016, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Mr. Franz Trček, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr. Boris Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! Last year you and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia went on a visit, a trip to the United States of America, where you visited some of the largest key global corporations in the field of information technology. This year you repeated this visit yourself. The critical part of the public has responded relatively violently to this visit. You're relatively, I hope to say, through social networks, you've reacted violently back. And since I do not see the policy of the National Assembly in such a way that the media will walk us left and right, I would ask you a few questions about this that you have already received in writing. First of all, I want to know: What are some of the grounds we accept in the National Assembly that resulted from your visit? Who invited you? What was the content of your visit? Who did you meet, who from the U.S. federal executive was your host there? How was this visit financed, and what will be the intended outcome of this visit? I hope you can answer me in those eight minutes you have at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u49	Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you, Your Honor. Let me just repeat the questions I got, as you announced: "I will ask the Minister about his recent visit to the United States." That was all I got from the question, so unfortunately I couldn't prepare any more. But I'll be able to answer that. We were both in America with an economic delegation. For the first time under the leadership of the Prime Minister, I'm a second time. We had our first visit to visit or bilateral talks with EMC, Sisco, IBM, Oracle, Microsoft and so on. In the second visit, the focus was on companies that are mainly involved in the cyber security economy in Denver, Colorado, where we met with representatives of science and the American National Guards and research which together establish a cyber security centre. The basis for my visit is the nature of my work, the mandate we have within the Ministry of Public Administration to take care of digital technologies and their development, and not least the mandate of the Prime Minister of the Government, who has entrusted me with the co-ordinator of these digital technologies. The visit was not of a political nature, so we did not meet with the political representatives of the American governments, but it was exclusively of a working nature, prepared in advance, both after a few months of work before we even coordinated positions, topics for discussion. The proceeds of this visit are new knowledge that we have received on one side and the other. We didn't go to America to buy anything, but we went, if I put it so badly, to sell Slovenia, so to speak, to convince us that in Slovenia we have a strategy of work in this area, that we have knowledge, expertise and many successes. I must say that with what we have presented in American companies and also presented to others with whom we have met, we have aroused a lot of interest and these contacts are being strengthened. The ultimate goal is that the large global corporations that lead the digital transformation that we are still discussing in Slovenia in terms of whether we want it or not, but we do not accept that this is happening around us at an extraordinary rate, that these corporations in Slovenia also recognize our knowledge, our excellent geostrategic position, and that with these corporations through the cooperation that we are starting in this way, we also establish development centres where Slovenia, with its vision, can also establish benchmarks in the wider space. This is the final stage of the purpose. However, concrete projects and also concrete cooperation in the area of large data, in the area of cyber security, are already taking place. But something more concrete will be possible when some more thorough arrangements can be signed, but I cannot speculate on something that has not yet been agreed upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u51	Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor to request a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Look, I must say, unfortunately, I share a suspicion that has been somehow critical to you. You are the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. You are the chief negotiator of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And who is the main investor in the field of information technology in Slovenia? Let us stop blinding ourselves — the state. Or through state administration or through public administration. Of course, I agree with you that we talk too much about these things in the clouds instead of doing them. But I don't agree with that, and this is where the criticism of your visit went. As a politician you are on a political visit, I apologize, Mr Minister. And in this way you somehow communicate a relatively negative message to the domestic information sector, and in this way also for those who will come after you, you work, I hope to say, some kind of cow trade. If, as far as I'm concerned, because the American Chamber of Commerce, partly funded by Spirit and you went there, usually if there's an economic delegation, if there's a policy, another policy of the executive branch, you meet someone. Otherwise, it is literally that you are running there, and I hope that you have reported this to the KPK, because in fact I will ask the KPK as well as other matters in writing. I'm not gonna ask for a debate on this, because I know I'm going to be outvoted. But I had to point this out, because there are some things where the executive branch should be more sensitive. Especially you, who I respect as capable and even rhetorically the most [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u53	Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Duck. Now I understand the nature of your question. So it's a suspicion of my potential corruption. Firstly, politics is not only a development of political relations, it is also a development policy. And what is one of the important elements of my work is development policy. That's exactly what I'm telling you. As far as the relation to home computer science is concerned, you may notice that all of the things we have thoroughly published, communicated publicly, published all the documents, accepted in government materials, and all of them answered a number of journalistic questions, it is clear that we have not concluded any contracts that would have financial implications for the country or the state budget, for the first time. Secondly, in all the visits we had, Slovenian IT companies actively participated, we actively prepared them together, and we left with them. Cooperation, as a result of these visits, is also developing between Slovenian IT companies and these corporations. So we are doing exactly the opposite, as you can see, looking for, in our own words, a business for Slovenian IT companies, and by no means can I agree to any mark in terms of cows' trades. The Chamber of Commerce organised an economic part of the delegation, which also financed its own path, and part of my delegation we financed from our resources, nor did we get the euro from any company to carry out such a route. As far as KPK is concerned. Of course, we are constantly in touch with them, we are also reporting lobbyist contacts when we have them, but this is not a lobbyist contact, because we have not affected our legislation or made concrete deals, but we have informed each other of the opportunities that we also have. Everything has been widely documented, published and I can tell you and the general Slovenian public that we are sincerely working with our colleagues to bring some more developmental start-ups and some more business into this country at an age around us with an exception of speed, and we still fear that every contact with any of the economic organisations is already de facto corrupt. It's not. I take this right to not be able to manage the information source if I have no contact with those who are making and developing this area. This would be simply unreasonable to expect, so we will continue to work transparently for the benefit of this country in this way, because it is legal and reasonable.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u55	Dr. Franc Trček, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Look, in the development part, I agree with you, of course, Mr. Minister. But in that way, and this was already a warning last year, no minister or vice-president of the government, I hope to say, the OECD, and no other country, is on its way. I am abusing this now, Mr President. You can give me a warning. After all, if we read the contents of your ministry, plus the negotiator, plus the vice president, plus that, plus that you've put on your shoulders now. You are, after all, a human being, and that is also what Mr Cerar should be watching. Your Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs probably has the highest number of areas. And that, too, has to be taken into consideration somehow. Of course I know who went with you. I know most of these people personally. But it's actually some form in which the Minister and Vice-President of the Government can't fall, because then we can easily get this story that we get. I'd rather talk about the content. After all, there would be someone there in the U.S. executive office who would accept you, because there is no need to detect hot water. It's easy. And that's where my warning goes. And it doesn't matter whether it's John, whether it's France or you, or whether there's some lady on that job. It is an awareness of a function and what some functions are allowed and not. It's actually happened twice already. I can't say anything like a flop. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u57	If I understand all of this correctly, this was not a procedural proposal for a debate. This was an abuse recognized by a Member who had already attributed himself to receive a warning. And I have to give him this warning now, because that's what it is. Mr Dusan Radič, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Koprivnik. I have a very short question: How is the digital transformation project progressing and the implementation of the Slovenia Green Reference Country in digital Europe?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u59	Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you, Member, for that question. Let me start by finding out that it's obviously very good. It is very good that these subjects are becoming interesting in this precious congregation. Personally, for a long time now, we have been working hard with the entire team, and we are working hard to make these changes become also a public-recognizable and public-interest issue. Let me say that this is not a time-limited project, but it is a whole range of related activities that we simply want to respond to, that the changes in the environment we face every day are happening so quickly that we want to speed up and connect all stakeholders who also need to meet in the field of digitisation. That is why I am particularly proud that we have started actively, practically at the daily level or at least with very frequent events to establish cooperation between the Government, between politics, between science, research and education, between the economy, which was also the subject of the previous issue, as well as civil society. Here are the activities that lead very closely to the fact that together as a society we will start to actively ask what these new digital technologies bring and also actively adapt our way of working, not least legislation. We had routes to America, to Germany, to Dubai, we are working with China, we have very intensive links established with the OECD, with the European Commission, with all these organisations, with the United Kingdom. Last but not least, we had a recent meeting at the Blej Strategic Forum of the Western Balkans Ministry, which was closely linked to the issue of digitisation. The Economic Chamber signed agreements with the Economic Chambers of the Western Balkans to lead this process of digitisation more actively. Monday's government meeting with Serbia is on this subject, which means we also want to make ourselves regional in some way as coordinator of these digital technologies, and here we also see our development and business opportunity. This is happening very nicely to us in this direction. However, in the context of these broader activities, if I am merely trying to downplay a few achievements, we are successfully implementing a centralisation project, which is very difficult, but it is running according to plan, state information technology. The Directorate for the Information Society has joined us to consolidate state information technology and wider information technology. In particular, legislation has changed a whole range of mechanisms allowing us to open public data and thus create new services, the Strategic Council for Informatics is greatly reducing costs and consolidating or standardising the technology that this country is purchasing to become more uniform, more manageable and easier to maintain. Here savings were estimated only in one year to over 10 million for new investments made. The eGovernment portal, a portal for entrepreneurs, eVem, was modified, for example, at the beginning of my mandate, with 300,000 transactions, in January, when we last measured, he already had over 2 million. It is said that this digitisation is also becoming very effective. We've changed a lot of laws, put an end to a lot of administrative obstacles. The latter is, for example, that the communication of hospital relativity happens completely automatically in the background. This will bring more than a million transactions. We also deal with changes in education effectively or very carefully. We all know we need digital skills. We have completely renovated the Administrative Academy, and we are also working with external organisations. I am pleased to note that in the light of this initiative, the activity for digitisation has somehow been accelerated. We have many excellent projects when companies themselves are connected in an international space. Here I can expose Gorenje, Mail, Telekom, who are very actively involved and we are currently working with them on how to digitise their business as actively as possible. A digital coalition is being established that will also take formal care in the cooperation of the Government – civil society – the economy for the coordinated development of these digital technologies and also address issues as previously implemented, say what digital technology can bring good and where its dangers are, as a country, to respond wisely. But I wouldn't mention it because we still have dozens of events that are somehow the result of this digital transformation. And let me say that digital transformation is not meant to have digital technologies, but because of digital technologies we have to transform our way of operating, operating, communicating. And that's what we don't understand enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u61	Mr Dusan Radic, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u62	Complementary response. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: Do you think we're investing enough, too little or too much in all these technologies? And here's another question: What about the amendment of legislation? There will certainly be changes to the legislation by putting all these processes in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u63	Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you. As far as investment in technology is concerned, we can never say that we are investing enough in technology, but I have to find out, and I do not mean that Slovenia is a technologically sound country, so I will express myself. Thus, we have a solid network infrastructure, a good supply of services, but above all we have a problem with our technology being too fragmented. We have a number of networks, we have separate developments, we have double projects that take place in different areas. As my core task in this function, as I am doing now, I see in particular the search for networking, between server capacities, between development initiatives. So here I see in particular the main need for coordination. However, as far as legislation is concerned, there has already been some talk about this today. Like the Ubra case, if I use this again. It is quite clear that Uber cannot drive in existing legislation today, so that the natural person can perform the service, but that person must be employed by someone who has a licence to carry out the transport, or must be the espe owner of the licence. If we are to make it possible for you and I to drive and be properly insured in the future because of digital technology, there will be a need for legislative changes. Here we go one step at a time. We are changing legislation in the field of communication, in the field of digital technologies, in the area of insurance itself, and labour relations will be the subject of the future. But I do not think that we will avoid this either, because unless these new models resulting from digitisation are regulated by legislation, they will nevertheless be carried out disorderlylyly, at the expense of citizens and, lastly, at the expense of the state, if it does not regulate taxation and proper market performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much for your answer. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u66	Member of Parliament, Mr Dušan Radič, you know that you have abused as a colleague before [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] He knows. That's why I'm going to give him a reminder. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u67	Dear President, I don't think he knows. Please withdraw his warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u68	Mag. Andrej Šircelj, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc! The question will be raised regarding the operation of public health institutions. We have already discussed this in the National Assembly, and I must say that we did not get answers at the time in the Commission to oversee public finances, at least all of them. However, the fact is that 29 public health institutions have shown losses in the first half of 2016, of which 14 hospitals, if I make comparisons at the end of last year or at the end of 2015 only 13 health homes, the end of last year three and, of course, in other areas, a worse situation has occurred. The loss increased by 310 percent. This is information that is public, which is yours, which is the data of these public health institutions. The highest loss is the University Clinical Center, Šempetska Hospital, UKC Maribor. In addition, outstanding obligations increase by a few million, both those up to thirty days, as those up to sixty days and those up to one hundred and twenty days, and that much, even for half of them. In addition, liquidity, the solvency of these public-health institutions is deteriorating. On the other hand, the quality of services does not increase. Here, if it were on the other hand, that the quality of health services is growing or that waiting periods are decreasing, then of course you could say, that is now something logical. That's not what I'm talking about. Here I'm asking you, why not? And I'm asking you a simple question: What will you do to reduce these losses? I don't even care what they're made of right now. We've already said all that. I don't care what's already been said. What will you do about what your suggestions will be to reduce health losses and to reduce the waiting lines in health, including the financial situation? So I'm interested in action. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u70	Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u71	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Members of the Parliament, Mr Shircelj! The numbers you mentioned are, of course, the actual results of the operations of Slovenian hospitals in the first half of this year. Allow me, despite all the reasons for the fact that fourteen hospitals were operating with a deficit of €19.3 million, but of course 12 hospitals were operating with a surplus of €2.8 million, that of course all 24 public pharmacies were operating positively with a surplus of €4.2 million, that of course health care facilities in the majority were operating positively. In particular, as far as hospitals are concerned, it should be said that this is also the result of past decisions and periods when savings were made and the cost of health care services was reduced by 18%. Losses from some hospitals are also the non-realisation of the programme, which was granted by a general agreement by the healthcare department. In some cases, this is the case with UKC Ljubljana, but in spite of the remedial measures implemented in this hospital, half the year, they ended up with a deficit. The first estimates are that the deficit will also be at the end of this year. But there are many reasons why these losses are. Allow me to list at least some of them because they also come from the past and are not only the result of six years of business, if we are looking in particular at the relation to the liquidity situation, the debt of late interest in relation to the payment of liabilities to suppliers. In particular, UKC Ljubljana needs to be said because, of course, it represents 65% of the total losses realized in the first half of the year in order to significantly exceed the number of patients being treated, which unfortunately were not paid by the health department in the first half of 2016. In particular, the number of visits to specialist clinics increased by 2% and visits to the Pediatric Clinic, the Surgical Clinic and could still be listed. But since you asked for the measures, I will also tell you what measures have been envisaged recently if you want to do so during my term of office, as well as what are planned by the end of this year. I have already mentioned the problem of non-implementation of unpaid surpluses of programmes, and then we are faced with a lack of alignment of evaluation of programmes by the payer in view of the actual situation, I am talking about uncoordinated recognitions and realised burdens in acute hospital treatment. Irregularity in business. Here we are addressing these reasons, and in the past there has also been an incorrect conclusion of business contracts, contracts with so-called independent entrepreneurs and various parts for the delivery of health services, and in 2015 and 2016 we have already taken systemic measures to increase the recognised depreciation in the calculation of the service price programme of 25%, which was 14.2 million. Then we slightly raised the prices of health services for the period from 1. 7. to 31. 12. 2015 total 16 million and also for the period from 1. 6. 2016 to 31. 12. 2016 re-increasing the prices of health services, which brought an additional 31.6 million for all operators.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u72	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Actually, I'd like an answer. I said in advance that we have already talked about the reasons, I understand that the ministers have prepared what they will say, similar to the Commission on Public Finance Control, but I would like an explanation as to what measures are needed to ensure that health will come out of loss and that waiting periods will be shorter. Reasons. You've mentioned, Your Honor, austerity measures as well. See, the austerity measures were during the crisis, for two years this coalition has this government and can change all austerity measures, completely different measures. But that's not it, actually. Besides, look, you said you were sitting at the 13th committee meeting. 5. 2015, it is more than one year ago that you will negotiate with the chairmen of the clinics and that within two to three months these waiting periods will significantly shorten. If we look at it today, it's only bigger, but there's bigger losses. I am not interested in 2015, but the losses in the first half of 2016 are so much higher than in 2015. That's why I'm really interested in the measures you're going to take to rehabilitate the health system. Let's leave the reasons. Look, we already are. We can talk, we can talk again. I will ask that public debate be held tomorrow, however, and of course we will be able to talk about the reasons. But the measures, the four measures can, are five measures to remedy this system. I'd really like an answer. Thanks for the advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u74	Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u75	As I have already said, the entire mandate for each year has been allocated much more money from the health treasury for the provision of health services. About the waiting years. I have said many times that we are taking short-term action and that we are working long-term. But you know, no waiting days can be reduced only by money if there is no spatial and equipment capacity for it, and if doctors also decide, as they say, that they will be overloaded to strike and write leaflets. That is, there is no minister, system or government in the world who could in such cases shorten waiting periods. However, let me say that the information is that all waiting periods except rheumatology are within legal time limits. There's no excessive waiting room for any time. In addition to the 16 million that we have earmarked as a short-term measure to short-term short-term reduction of waiting periods, we will also come up with a proposal for amendments and patient rights supplements, because in these waiting periods there are many anomalies, as you yourself have had the opportunity to hear from professors, clinic heads, that there are names on these lists of people who have either already had operational interventions in other regional hospitals, either that they have not yet decided on an operational intervention or that they are in such a health condition that they cannot even intervene. In addition, it is planned that from the past more than a hundred million transferred expenditure from the general budget, or from an integrated budget to finance specialisations, traineeships, scientific research, which has been transferred back to the health allowance in the past, and that is an additional EUR 103 million. At the same time, specific protocols are being drawn up. As you know, it is in the final stage of the e-passenger, which will allow a single central electronic management of waiting periods in Slovenia as of 1 January. And as you know, individual hospitals also practice good practices where, in fact, for all 100 percent of the interventions paid, patients also drive to other operators.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u76	Mag. Andrej Šircelj, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, I would ask that the vote be taken on the question of the reply of the Minister of Health. In particular, because I simply cannot be satisfied with the fact that I do not actually get the proposed measures for health care to come out of losses that have increased dramatically according to the health data itself. Once again, the loss in hospitals amounted to 19.3 million euros and is higher by 310 percent compared to the same period last year, according to the first half of 2015 for 2016. Just as an example. All together, health institutions have EUR 118 million outstanding obligations. Look, 118 million outstanding liabilities. And there are no measures here to really change that. I do not want to prejudge any action, but the measures are probably already logical and rational, and also in relation to waiting periods. It was said that no waiting period was above the legal deadline. I don't know what this deadline means, but I do know that some have a waiting period fast, but some have a waiting period well on a regular basis. It is said that one must be taken on a rapid basis and one on a regular basis. And those who have to be accepted quickly, say, at the orthopedic infirmary are waiting over the tolerance of a thousand and a half people, that's one. 8. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Physiotherapy of a thousand 171, neurologic outpatient 406, that's over the permissible waiting period fast. Regularly, also orthopaedic ambulance 504 people over what is permissible, not what is acceptable, is acceptable, and therefore I cannot accept this answer now, what is legally stated and so on. Here we have regular and permissible. These are the data provided by health establishments, and these are the data provided by the National Institute for Public Health. So I would like this to be discussed, because we appear to have different data. The Minister shall have other information such as the National Institute for Public Health or otherwise interpret it. But waiting days are extraordinary, they're unacceptable. For this reason, I propose that the President-in-Office should hold a public debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u78	Master Andrej Šircelj, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 October 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mr. Jožef Horvat, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr. Zdravek Počvalšk. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural? I didn't notice. I'm sorry. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u79	I apologize, but in the order in which I received it, it should be my turn to ask the question now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u80	After Joseph Horvato, you're on my list, 13th, and now we're on the 12th. So, Mr. Joseph Horvat, you can ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Restoršek! On those days when Members are considering the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017, I am asking you about the provision of budgetary resources for the correct and consistent implementation of the Development Support Act to the Pomurski region, which was extended by the National Assembly last year by the end of 2017. The budget for 2017 lacks a good EUR 3.4 million. This is a problem, this is a major problem, and this shows that the law will not be implemented, and we must not allow Members to break the law. Under the Development Support Act of the Pomur Region, the value of the entire programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomur Region is €33 million. From 2010 until the end of 2015, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology provided EUR 22 million 824 thousand. So this is a realisation. Therefore, the unrealised funds amount to EUR 10 million 175 000 and must be realised by law in 2016 and 2017. In the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016, 4 million EUR 448 000 is planned for the implementation of the law and 4 million EUR 153 000 is planned for the proposed changes to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. It follows that there is insufficient money in the budgets for a million 137 000 euros, which means that the government is in breach of the Development Support Act of the Pomur region already in the budget planning phase. Due to the administrative complications of the adoption of the programme only in the middle of 2016, only EUR 2 million will be foreseen for 2016. This means that the planned funds in the draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 for the proper implementation of the law should amount to 7 million 534 thousand 758. Mr. Minister, that's why I'm asking you: What will you do in the process of adopting the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 in order to prevent violations of the provisions of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurski region, which expires 31. 12. 2017? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. The Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Restoršek, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u83	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. First of all, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has already carried out a number of activities in the past to maximize the implementation of the measures of the law. This applies not only to the programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomur region but also to other measures under the law. At the Ministry, we are aware of the importance of implementing the Competitiveness Promotion Programme, so in 2015 we tabled a proposal to extend the implementation of the law for two years. The proposal was adopted, but we proposed it because there was not enough funding available within that time limit for the implementation of this law. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we are working to ensure that funds are drawn up more in the context of the measure to establish the regional economic centre mentioned by you. On the basis of a call for funding from the European Regional Development Fund and the functioning of the 2010 Slovenian Economic Development Centres, three projects from the Pomeranian region amounting to almost EUR 27 million were supported. In 2013, however, in order to achieve a higher implementation of this measure from European funds, we launched a public call to promote research and development projects for all area problems of EUR 4.3 million. By saying that one of these three projects at the development centres of the Slovenian economy has ended the piano with very poor results. This call was also open to companies from the area of validity of the pomurski law and 4 applications were granted for companies from the Pomurska region as partners. Such companies were 7, and the total approved value was EUR 300,000 and EUR 386 000. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in the last year, in the event of the bankruptcy of the former regional development agency, we are accelerating the procedures for entering the new development agency into the register in regional development agencies, with the aim of preventing greater delays in the implementation of the law. The bankruptcy of the regional development agency itself also had a major impact on the reduction of spending in 2016. I assure you that we will continue to support to the maximum extent the implementation of the measures under the programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region. When preparing the 2017 budget changes, we provided the funds at the level envisaged by the current programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomur region, which is EUR 4 million 153 thousand 751. We must be aware, however, that the absorption capacity of the pomur companies is limited. Despite efforts to adopt laws in 2009, annual absorption of €5.5 million has proved to be above €4 million in 2012-2014 and has been lower in all other years. In view of the above, we estimate that the amount of resources proposed for the financial year 2017 is 4 million 173 thousand, real. The amount of funds proposed by the Member of Parliament is 7.5 million, and we estimate that it is not realistic. If the option of drawing in 2017 were underestimated, you would still not find the problem you are pointing out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, you. First of all, thank you for knowing that you are personally engaged to extend this law for 2016 and 2017, of course mainly on the pressure of the MPs. But see, the law makes it very clear: The programme to promote the competitiveness of the pomur economy is financially difficult for 33 million. And if we are to implement the law in a consistent manner, we must respect it, and we must provide so much money. When we speak to the pomurish economy, I must say that absorption capacity exists. For the last invitation to tender issued under the said Act, the sum of the applications was estimated at approximately 36 million. Now we are looking at a reality, which will be only 2.6 million this year, that is to say, according to budget resources only 54%, that is to say, not enough. Certainly, I claim that the pomur economy has absorption skills, but of course it is necessary to be consistent in the implementation of calls, in the implementation of the law and some businessmen, economic operators complain that they simply fall out of the call literally due to peaks and commas. We insist on this, and in this sense I have also written an amendment and it has been submitted by Nova Slovenija that the item from which the law is financed in the amount of 7 million 534 thousand 758, so for 3 million 390 thousand 7 euros more than you proposed or the government has proposed in the budget. Mr Minister, I believe that the coalition has decided not to accept the amendments to the budget, but I appeal to you because I have a lot of confidence in you because you understand how the Slovenian economy works, that the Government will provide sufficient resources for 2017, otherwise the law will be broken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u86	Minister Rest, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you. The fact is that 2017 is the last year of the implementation of the Law of Pomur. We will re-examine and analyse the situation in Pomurje in particular from the point of view of the criteria defined by the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development. As long as Pomurje still faces development problems and a high unemployment rate in 2017, which is highly likely to be expected, it will also receive development incentives after 2017. It has to be announced that this law should end at the end of 2015 and has not been implemented, so we have extended it for two years and tried to implement the required €33 million from the law, which obviously will not be implemented until the end of the two-year period. We're looking for other calls, as I said before. We're trying to help in some way, but we're definitely not going to get to these numbers, as you pointed out. We're also here to try not to reject, not just in Pomour, the stakes because of the dots and the commas. However, the fact is that those conditions are to be met. We will continue to work harder to make the calls so clear that there will be no reason to reject them. Of course, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development, we will need to prepare and prepare a new Competitiveness Promotion Programme, which will allow the implementation of the measures in the coming years. In any case, in the event that Pomurje does not fall below 17% and it will not fall, we will have to find another solution, so that we do not comply with the law and then have poor results, but that we will at least try to take a few steps forward so that the situation there in terms of economic situation and unemployment will improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Joseph Horvath, your word is for a procedural request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr Vice President, thank you, Minister. Just because you say, and somehow I feel like we're on our way together to help Pomura. You yourself have predicted that it is probably very unlikely that by the end of the following year the registered unemployment rate would be significantly reduced. Thank God it saves us as far as the employment of neighbouring Austria is concerned, but on the other hand, I can say thank God, because people are evicting us because of, as you know, bad income laws. In some ways, if this law is not implemented, that is to say, if sufficient resources are not available in the 2017 budget, then Pomurje will be handicapped, the pomurje economy will be handicapped because the law will not be implemented and, on the other hand, because we have a law, the pomurje economy is not entitled to other sources of development resources, only under the Harmonised Regional Development Act. I believe that there are many problem areas in Slovenia, some of which you have very much supported in the government's decision, which is right. What is best is that we strictly implement the laws adopted by the National Assembly. And here, once again and for the last time, I claim that the gloomy economy has absorption skills. Why don't we help out there if there's, like, a $2 million investment to help out through this law with budget funds? So I'm talking about 3 million and 390 thousand, that's the number for which the budget line should be raised. As long as we have an open debate on the budget for 2017, it is now the right time to find a solution, to find these funds and, in fact, no one will point to the government with a finger, but it does not respect the laws adopted by the National Assembly. That is why I propose, Mr Vice-President, that we do this, I am sure, in a constructive debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 October, in the framework of the votes. The following is Mr Franc Jurša, who will refer the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u91	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to apologize to the President for my unsuspecting in my procedural proposal, in fact, the matter was unfounded. Now, of course, a nice greeting to everyone here in the Chamber, especially to the Minister, who I will also ask him this question. It's been over a year since I asked you in writing about the Hajdin-Omoz fast road. It's also been a while since you had your defense of interpretation against you, where I've also spoken on this subject. Of course, I would like to recall publicly that, during the 2008-2011 term, I visited in the field, under the slogans, this construction of a fast road, where, together with the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, we saw two pillars in the immediate vicinity of Ormož, which were already partially built. In response to my written question, you have ensured that, through the operational programme to be included in the Transport Development Strategy of Slovenia by July 2016, there will also be a measure to build this fast road. The Hajdin-Omoz road link is still unbuilt, despite the fact that some €10 million of tax money has already been invested in this project. As a result, the local population still remains at large. We all know that one of the reasons is that individual contractors have abandoned construction, mainly because of their bankruptcy. I can therefore agree with you that in the meantime the circumstances of planning to build this link have changed. However, I would point out that certain measures to carry out the construction of the said section should be precisely defined, that clear and effective objectives should be set and that the construction of the road of the said fast road should be carried out on the basis of these measures. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: What are the further plans for the construction of the road link Hajdin-Ommož? I also want to know: What activities are currently taking place at this road section? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u92	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Mr President, I also thank you for the question raised. You yourself have already found in your question that many things have happened in the past with regard to this project. The project had already begun to take place on the ground with the start of construction, but then there was a series of bankruptcys, which then stopped it all together, so that the matter has actually been standing ever since then. You are probably also aware that in the past week, together with representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, I carried out a field review of the route from Ormož to Gorišnica and to Markovec. I myself had the opportunity to look at these remnants of this beginning of the construction of this Viaduct Sejanec, where, in fact, we have been on this construction road for quite some time now, because it has all grown together and those remains of this structure have been sadly lonely there for seven years now, I think. With regard to this fast road, this connection, which goes from Ormož, if we go from this side, is from Ormož to Ptuj to Hajdine, we know that individual parts of this route are in different stages of readiness. We have this part from Ormož to Gorišnica, which is placed in the space and we also have a virtually complete building permit. Then this part is from Gorišnica to Markovts, where the route is placed in the space, but a building permit has not yet been obtained. And then we have this part from Markovec to Hajdine to the highway itself, where we know that the matter is still uninhabited and we are actually still dealing here with the part where this fast road is supposed to join the future highway, or the southern part of the Ptuj Lake through these protected Natura 2000 areas, or the northern part where this location is opposed by the local population. But I'm going to touch it in the end. In short, in this part where the cases are already placed in the premises and in this part where we already have a building permit, it was agreed with the mayors to start construction activities last week. It is said that at the part where the building permit has already been obtained, things are restored and Darsu is also provided with the necessary financial resources. Above all, it is important that we adopt a guarantee law that will allow Dars to carry out the debt, so that this project can also be financed. In that part where there are no construction permits yet, and so to begin these activities of preparing project documentation, obtaining a construction permit and then this part goes on to build up further, so that a whole section of Ormož to Markovec is built, and there is a temporary connection, of course, to the existing state road, which takes place from Zavča to Ptuj, until this problem is resolved in the space I spoke about earlier, is said to be this missing section to the highway, so that I think we have finally cut off some agony for several years of uncertainty, what with this fast road, which we know is not a quadruple, is placed under a bi-pass with extra-military crossings. In short, the issue is now that we must ensure the guarantee law, and Dars will put this first section into action and also start activities in the coming year, which will mean that the construction will be revived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u94	Mr. Franz Jurša, you have the floor to request that the answer be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u95	I must say, I am quite satisfied with your answer. Of course, I was informed by means of public information that this interview with the representative of the local community, as well as with the representative of the Ministry of the Environment and Space in this section, would still raise a question that reads: How can it have a negative impact on the acquired funds for upgrading the Prague-Hodoš railway line if this road is not built and also does not build an overpass or submersible at Veliki Sunday? Does this mean that it could also happen that European funds should be returned to these institutions?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u96	Minister Gaszperšič, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. While this project was planned to modernise the railway connection between Prague and Hodoš, it was agreed that the railway crossing should be maintained with the prisons, otherwise it should be discontinued and the traffic should be arranged differently, with the assurance, of course, that this traffic would be different as soon as the rapid road is built, and that crossing across the railway will no longer present such a problem for decommissioning. I do not think that this issue is related to the issue of the return of European funds, as that project has been completed as envisaged. This commitment, therefore, after the construction of the fast road, which is also a promise to the local population, will be realized as soon as possible. So I think that there is no way that this fear of European funds should be recovered in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you, Minister Gaspersich. Mrs Jelka Godec will address Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anjo Kopač Mrak with a question. Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. I am asking the question of the two ministers; however, if perhaps the Minister of Labour is not concerned, the Minister will tell. Indeed, it is a question of a four-year health care education programme. After some of the notifications or matters I received in my hands, letters, this profession, i.e. the 5th degree of education, the mid-term nurse, was suspended and replaced with another profession – a socio-health assistant. For this reason, I am particularly interested in the answer by the Minister of Health to the following question: Are you planning in the new legislation to abolish the nurse’s program, the medium medical technician, in these new laws, in the Health Act and others? Is it true that a new profession is being established as a social-health assistant? And to Minister Anji Kopač, I ask the question: Is it really the CPI or the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for the Revision of the Programme and a working group is set up to prepare a new programme for the profession of socio-health assistant? How far is this matter on the CPI or within the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, we'll give the floor to Dr. Anji Digač Dark first. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Thank you for asking. In the introduction, I would just like to say because it is important that the Minister of Health responds substantively. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is responsible for the transposition of Directive 2013/55-2013 amending Directive 2005/36-EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and also Regulation 1024/2002 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The area covered by this Directive concerns all regulated professions in our country, including regulated professions in the field of health. The method of regulating the profession itself falls within the competence of individual ministries. Therefore, our ministry is concerned that it is trying to coordinate with other ministries in order to comply with its sectoral legislation with this regime, which is in line with the European acquis. Thus, the actual regulation of the profession of a mid-term nurse or health care technician falls within the competence of the Ministry of Health, leaving the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for asking, too. The field of education for health professions is governed by education legislation, for the whole vertical from vocational education to doctoral programmes. In this part, let me say that the legal basis has not changed. The Ministry of Health, on the basis of professional discussions, followed the guidance of healthcare providers and social care providers who proposed to amend the title of professional standard and content by aligning competences with international guidelines, practices and recommendations of international associations. As a result, the Ministry of Education, together with the Ministry of Education, received an update or revision of two professional standards already in 2015 to supplement the skills relating mainly to social content, namely the fifth-degree updating of the professional standard, that is, the mid-term nurse, and the fourth-degree updating of the professional standard, that is, the caregiver. I would like to point out that the Ministry supports and participates in the revision of these two professional standards, which are being prepared together in a group at the Centre for Vocational Education. The secondary vocational programme of healthcare or vocational training of nursing care professionals shall not be abolished. Education at the fifth level remains at the same level. The proposal to amend the title of the educational programme was made by a healthcare assistant and a proposal was subsequently made to change the title to a medical and social assistant, which is not yet fully harmonised. In view of the needs in different environments, of course, an additional proposal was made to simplify in the open curriculum the content that is least lacking to students, as demonstrated by practice, including the competences required under the Directives already mentioned. This was mainly the case with professional content, such as social care, health care, provision of chronic diseases, basic pharmacology, food choices, healthy nutrition, as well as natural content. And all these new content proposed by the profession are and will be included in the standard. This standard has already been presented by representatives of the communities of secondary health schools in Slovenia, who agreed to all of them by incorporating these new content into the standards. There are still no final decisions on these standards according to my information at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u104	Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you. Now please, if you correct me then, but I now understand this, in fact, a four-year-old nurse, will no longer be in Slovenia, i.e. the fifth-degree profession. We'll only have highly educated nurses. At the fifth stage, we will have a new profession, which will be called a new one and will have new contents, this is a socio-health assistant. Why not a nurse anymore, why a social-health assistant? Is this related to any new law, any new system arrangements? All nurses will be highly educated, which means extension of the study, higher study costs, higher work costs later, nurses who are highly educated, i.e. with high school, we already have today and are moving away from the original mission and the original part, this is work with the patient, and they focus mainly on the organization and do not want to participate in the care of the patient anymore, that is, where they are most needed. Now we're going to do this, so extension of study, higher cost of study, higher cost of work, because we're going to have a higher rate, then they're going to advance and so on, but we're not going to have the essence that we've had so far of a very good, fifth-grade nurse who's been dealing with the patient, which is their mission. Please, if you answer me: Is there a fifth-degree nurse in the original role he plays today, or are we only going to educate high school because some colleges favor this profession in order to have more enrolled? Why does the medical organisation, the coordination of medical organisations, disagree with what you are proposing? They do not agree with the new profession of socio-health assistant, but say that it is more important that we have nurses for all these reasons that I have listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u107	Madam Member, I will answer you with a question. Where was the then Minister of Health, someone else in the then government in 2003-2004 to not be able to negotiate the competences of the middle nurses? Unfortunately, we are now forced to do so and, as you know, we have been negotiating very hard with the health care union for one year, because our high school program and the profession of a high-school nurse do not correspond to the competences required by the European Directive, and this is only a graduate nurse. I'm sorry about that. As soon as you receive the Amendment and Supplement to the Health Act, you will be able to determine in a number of transitional articles how we have resolved the situation, because we know that today we have medium-sized nurses employed in parts and tasks that correspond to a certain percentage of the work of a graduate nurse, which is in line with European competences. And actually, what I said, in that marriage, we're going to be solving a 12- to 13-year-old problem, because otherwise, all the middle-aged nurses could be, say, unemployed or on the road, because they don't fit these competences. But that's something you have to ask someone who was negotiating at the time or who wasn't negotiating. Now we are essentially just regulating the education system so that, for the first time, we will be adapted to the challenges of demographic trends, so that the same secondary school programme with additional content with another title will be called health and social assistant, but, of course, the programme for graduate nurses remains the same as it is, because unfortunately, as I have already said, the one whose program meets the competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have the floor for a procedural request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u109	Although I wanted to make another procedural proposal, namely, the Minister, I ask the Minister and the Minister has to answer my question. But if she doesn't want to, let her say she won't answer the question without asking me back what the former ministers were doing. I don't care. I wonder if we're shutting down the nurse's education and raising her to a higher level. That was the question. And I think that the Presidents should tell the Minister not to ask questions back because she has been asked questions and the Minister is obliged here to answer what is currently going on at this point. That was also my question and not what was, I don't know, ten years ago. And excuses for ten just back here today aren't in place. As far as this is concerned, I will only take advantage of it here, that it is not true that nurses with a fifth degree do not have the authority to do their job. They have competences. Because if we didn't have them, we wouldn't have them in hospitals and health homes and so on. But I'm wondering who's going to hire nurses with a high education because they're going to cost more work? And the European directive, yes, talks about it, these are proposals, but it doesn't say anywhere that it has to be. And you keep stressing that our primary health care and that these things that we have today are very good. Now all of a sudden, we have to have highly educated nurses who are moving away from their original work, and we are increasing the cost of education, the cost of work, and I'm wondering how they're going to cover the cost of work when a high-level nurse comes in instead of a secondary education, and she won't want to work with a patient. He's moving away. And once again, the fact that you're saying that everyone's agreed, it's not true. I have three letters where neither high school nor coordination of medical organisations agreed. I will not ask for a debate in the National Assembly, but I have taken advantage of this because it does not seem right for me to have the arrogance of the Minister in the National Assembly to teach or ask Members back how and what.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Godec. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to refer the question to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anjo Kopač Mrak. Here you go, Mr. Skoberne, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, all three ministers present! After 2008, when the labour market broke in some way in Europe, one of the key issues was how to address the measures that would stabilise and return to the employment framework of the most vulnerable groups left on the side of this employment market. Following a campaign launched by youth organisations at European level during 2012, at the initiative of young European Socialists, the European Parliament adopted a so-called Youth Guarantee Resolution in 2013. This resolution has, of course, put an obstacle to opportunities and assistance on the part of the European Commission for intervention in the labour market, but it was crucial that the countries themselves respond and localise the solution to this action through their application of this programme. And my question, given that the indications that certain measures will continue to be taken under this heading, is twofold: How effectively did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia implement the objectives set out in the framework of employment provision, traineeship regulation and the prevention of long-term youth unemployment in the labour market in the context of the programmes you have already set in the previous government? To what extent and why is the continuation of these measures planned? If you'll allow me a more detailed sub-question: What was actually happening and still happening with the issue of youth employment, research unemployment and whether it was global trends here or whether the specific application of this Youth Guarantee programme in Slovenia had a strong enough impact and well enough operationalisation to deserve an extension? In some countries, when we look at the whole European Union, the results are well-known, and again in other countries, the youth unemployment rate remains above 20%. And if we look at the data available for Slovenia, we can see that they vary considerably from one quarter to another. Therefore, my question is in fact a brief analysis of the effectiveness of this programme and the effectiveness of the application of the Government to the local situation in Slovenia and, of course, an extension in the context of the trends reflected in the employment of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u112	Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! The employment of young people, if we look at the image of the last 2, 3 years, we can say that things have improved significantly. Between the end of 2013 and this September, youth unemployment dropped by 42%. If we look at the number, there were 32 thousand 523 young people who were unemployed, there are still too many today, but there are 18 thousand 919. Only this year, from January to the end of August, more than 17,000 young people, including 4 thousand 600 for an indefinite period of time, were employed. On average, young people leave unemployment more quickly than other groups of unemployed. The situation in young people is improving faster and more significantly than in other vulnerable groups in our market. The main reasons for this are economic growth, and it is also important that, as you mentioned, guarantees for young people play an important role. We must remember that the guarantees for young people as the commitment of European countries to ensure that every young person up to the age of 25 years after the start of unemployment provides a new start, a new start in the form of employment, training, education, apprenticeship, traineeship, so that something happens to them, because we are aware that young people who are inactive, who are not engaged, are lost talents in society, and we cannot afford the whole of Europe. Slovenia fought very hard to get the money back then. We have received 9 million extra money, and we are at the same time one of the few countries that has raised the youth border to 29 years due to the specifics. We have been assessed in the report by the European Commission among countries that have more effectively implemented the Youth Guarantees. However, we have been exposed as an example of good practice because of the involvement of young people in this process. You also need to know that the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia and the Mama Network, because the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities have given authority, have applied to the European Commission's call for information and information to young people on the Youth Guarantee Programme and have received almost EUR 227 000 of funding and some young people are also employed. Evaluations of these programmes have also been made. Training in the workplace, where young people are involved, is a level of involvement in order to become employed, you will not believe, 72%. An even better job test is where young people are allowed to contact their employer to check them, if I say so, in the workplace; there is a level of exit, i.e. to be employed after the end of this programme, up to 75%. As a result, and all these results, we have decided to continue the guarantees for young people in the period 2016-2020. We continue with active employment policy measures and resources within the European Social Fund. As an example of good practice, it has also been shown that at the employment agency, young advisers who deal specifically with young people are closer to them to be presented to them in a different way, in short, that these advisers are specially adapted; we are also continuing to do so. In this new financial perspective, training in the workplace has actively, publicly invited the first challenge, where a subsidy for employment of young people amounting to EUR 7 000 250 in the eastern part of Slovenia, some 3,000 jobs have been realized here. We also have a lot of discussion with young people about how to ensure greater sustainability, not only that young people have jobs, but it is our common challenge, how in the next period, 2016-2020, to provide subsidies that will be more sustainable. We are talking about only employers who employ young people for an indefinite period of time being limited to one year in order to promote this quality aspect in particular. It is also important to mention the intervention law, which was adopted in 2013, which led to the employment of some 5,000 young people for an indefinite period of time. If we remember, there was an option that the employer who hired a young person for an indefinite period of time would not pay social security contributions for two years, and we have ensured that young people are involved so much and so. In any event, the PUM programme, deficit scholarships and others will continue, especially with young people, because we have certain shortcomings in the relationship between education and the labour market, and then through active employment policy measures. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Jan Škoberne, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, allow me to express my satisfaction that the situation in the field of youth employment is improving and that the trend is pointing to the appropriate measures taken by the Government. Above all, I am pleased to learn from your response that the scope of both the measures and the areas you are addressing through this is broad enough to understand that we will address both those young people who are more ambitious than those who face, for example, the issue of whether they are out of the school system. Here I am thinking mainly of PUM programmes, because it is a key dilemma that we are facing as a society as a whole, so how, despite having a large segmentation of diversity, we have the same opportunities for everyone within our community. In this respect, I would like to ask you another question: Where are we today with the question of traineeships, especially paid traineeships, regulating this area intersectorally in the Republic of Slovenia? When the Youth Guarantee was established, one of the basic assumptions was not only inclusion, but also prevention of overpreciseness, because, of course, only subsidies, as you yourself have pointed out, are not sufficient, it is necessary to ensure the sustainability of employment and the sustainability of inclusion in the labour market as well as in the education system. And I understand from an important part of your response that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing so accordingly. However, I think it is crucial that we also address the issue of traineeships, where an important part of the youth civil sphere has also had some questions, and even today, if I understand correctly, the initiatives have not yet been completed. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Scoberne. I give my word to the Minister. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Maybe before I go to the traineeship, I'm just saying that last week at EPSCO, the competent council, we talked about the continuation of the guarantees. The Alliance of Socialists clearly requires the European Commission to continue this good programme. The co-ministers were also very much on the side of the extension, because we need to be aware that young people in a large number of countries do not even come to the Employment Institute, they are completely excluded, and the country does not reach them. However, with guarantees for young people, we have also achieved that this visibility of Europe in this area is greater and because young people have now come into, if we say so, official bureaucratic, administrative flows of the country, here other countries have a much greater problem than we have in Slovenia, that of course we all want to continue. We're talking about the means to do so. Of course, Slovenia is essential to remain a beneficiary of these funds, but it will not be easy, because our unemployment rate is now below the European average, while in 2013, when I negotiated for these funds, unfortunately, we were significantly higher, especially in the east, stronger than the European average. As far as traineeships are concerned. We also talked about traineeships in the National Assembly several times, and our ministry coordinated other departments in this area because it is sectoral policy. As the Government as a whole, however, we immediately took the view that free traineeships were not permissible and then an action plan to address the issue was adopted, as certain legislative changes were needed. In the area of social protection, we have prevented the fact that it is no longer possible to change traineeships in terms of compulsory traineeships, especially the inability of others with different working experience to access professional examinations, as we have changed them, because it is right that young people who in different ways receive work experience have the opportunity to perform a professional examination. The Labour Market Regulation Act will also regulate this. On the other hand, there have never been free traineeships in the area of our social protection, since we have already provided funds in the previous financial perspective. The invitation to tender was also open to young people, even in the field of education, but together, and in the coming year, for all the different areas, the invitation to tender will be the first job, where we will ensure this for all the young people who enter for the first time. It is also important that the Government has adopted a quota within the framework of the Common Staff Plan where ministries can hire a trainee. Thus, we have quite a few interns, similar to the inspectorate and elsewhere. However, under European funding, there is also a call for trainees in the area of Fursa Food Safety Inspectorate, so that we are trying to open up to young people because of the ZUJF we have had, we know, very closed [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you, Minister Anya Digač Dark. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u119	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you again about the operation of the pilot projects of the paediatric emergency centres. I've asked you this question once before, but since I haven't received a substantive answer, I'm asking you again. What's this all about? In March 2016, the Ministry convened a joint meeting of all directors of the public health institutions of the Celje region. At this meeting, they were informed that the Ministry would start a pilot project of paediatric centres, emergency centres. What does that mean? It is said that in the future all children under the age of 19 should not be up to 18, but by the age of 19 at the time of on-call should visit not their doctor in their healthcare home, but a pediatrician in the emergency center. Of course, the ministry also allows parents or these children to decide to take their children to their doctor. But what's the problem? The problem is in the very way of funding. In view of this, Minister, you are familiar with the subject, I ask the following questions: Does the Ministry have a public network in the field of pediatrics? It is also known that there is a shortage of pediatricians in Slovenia. Does the Ministry of Health have a timetable for the establishment of paediatric emergency centres throughout Slovenia? Does the Ministry of Health have a calculated cost for the operation of these paediatric emergency centres? And lastly, I would really like to ask for an answer: Does the Ministry of Health really intend to withdraw funds from emergency medical care to finance paediatric emergency centres?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u120	Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u121	Hello again! Thank you for that question. It is true that the issue of the establishment of so-called paediatric emergency centres has already been raised. However, since this issue arose for the first time in the consideration of the public debate of the Emergency Medical Aid Regulation and also on the basis of and the initiative of the paediatric profession, the Ministry of Health has joined a special working group to prepare a comprehensive project for the establishment of paediatric emergency centres. For reasons unknown to me, unfortunately, this part of emergency medical care for children was not established at the time of the establishment of the project of emergency centres throughout Slovenia. This working group, composed of the experts themselves of pediatricians, intensively prepares such a methodology, professional starting points and a work plan, which, of course, will, once it has completed, be forwarded to the extended peds college, which is in fact the highest professional body in the field, and then to the treatment and validation of the healthcare world. As is the ordinary procedure for any new activity or new specialty that is being introduced, which, of course, has consequences also in the systemic way of financing through the general agreement on health allowance. We collect data and analyze from the field how many visits of paediatric centres are made to each emergency centre or how many of these visits are made by on-call doctors. Now, as we know, it is very common that parents seek this emergency help at the primary level in a healthcare home, which we know is not available to a pediatrician everywhere, and so these children and adolescents are also examined by a family doctor or a specialist in another field. And in these cases it usually ends by writing a guide and of course the parents with the child go directly to the University Clinical Center. As a result, this paediatric clinic also has a large number of reviews and goes beyond the program. Often, between weekends and holidays, they go directly to UKC and do not even look for duty. This paediatric emergency assistance is now financed under the total lump sum that the health department provides for a particular period of time for a public health institution or a healthcare institution which it receives in accordance with the general arrangement. Thus, in the future, this paediatric emergency service will be financed separately, of course in accordance with the rules, once all analysis has been done by the working group, the methodology, once it is determined how much resources will be needed for this and then transferred to the general agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much, again. Now, yes, Minister, it's not your fault that the pediatrician wasn't involved in the emergency center project itself. That's a fact. But, look, you mentioned the problems yourself, the problems now show these pilot projects, that in pediatrics, in emergency centres of the species, they are increasing severely, and, on the other hand, they are facing difficulties or are likely to face difficulties in financing public institutions where they are working urgently for medical care. I ask you again, Madam Minister: Is it true that you have already obtained information about the number of children living in or covered by a particular healthcare home and that a proposal for the amount of funds to be allocated to paediatric patients or children has been prepared on the basis of this information? The PUC will then have to provide 24 hour on-call medical care with these funds, all of which is fine and good, but public health services, where emergency medical care operates, will be left without these funds. That's the problem. And given that we are approaching the end of the year and we are approaching a new budget period, I would really like a clear answer on this last part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u124	Here you are, Minister. You have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u125	As I have already said, the working group has not yet finished its work, it has not been financially evaluated, it has not yet been examined and adopted by the Health Council, so the question or the way in which and how someone will take money from someone is totally inappropriate this moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku, who has just arrived. But it says here you're away.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Minister for Economic Development and Technology, on the subject of regional development, we have already spoken here on the issues of the Member States themselves. This time I will ask you a different question and, of course, I also expect your most specific answers. In Slovenia we have 12 regional development agencies that somehow cover statistical regions, which are also, in fact, under the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, those agencies which are responsible for these areas. They are in a way, if we look at them organisationally, including those basic units, both for planning and for carrying out the tasks of regional development. At the same time, we have 14 so-called participating institutions, which do not operate within all these 12 statistical regions, but only within four statistical regions, namely Pomurska, Savinja, Goriška and Podravska region. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: How do you assess the work of regional development agencies, their effectiveness, their performance? Last year, when we adopted amendments to the Harmonised Regional Development Act, you mentioned, among other things, that you are doing some kind of analysis of the work of these agencies. Now I want to know: Which agencies are successful, effective, those that are unsuccessful and where are those problems, why, say, individual agencies fail? Similarly, we would have a question for these so-called participating institutions. What is your view on the organisation of these agencies from coherent regional development? Do you intend to preserve it in the future as it is today, or are you planning any changes in this area? That's part of my question. The second part relates to the very course of the agreement for the development of the regions, something has already been said on this topic. I want to know: How far are you now with these arrangements to assess the course itself, and not least how many such cases are there when the regions have dedicated their regional project? It is, of course, up to you, as in the Ministry of Regional Development, to reach a common agreement with the Ministry of Finance, which includes the project, so you can reach a common agreement with the Ministry of Justice, of course, for the region. You're the one at the Ministry that runs these meetings, and I'm really curious: How many open agreements and differences are on the one hand with the wish of the region and on the other hand [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you, Chairman. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Dear Member, thank you for asking the question. The preparation of regional development arrangements is subject to the Act on the Promotion of coherent regional development. This is a new instrument for implementing regional development programmes. During this programming period, what you have said is new that specific European funds are no longer available to regional policy within the Ministry. Funds should be sought in the budgets of different ministries. In doing so, the Ministry shall endeavour to conduct a territorial development dialogue between the regions and the ministries. The job is new, and it's not easy. Expectations in the regions are quite high, they exceed available resources, and dialogue between ministries and regions is still under way. We'll brief the government with the first results. I can say in a nutshell that so far the ministries have responded to more than €100 million. However, if we compare this with the previous perspective, when more than 600 million regions were obtained from this instrument through one ministry, we see that we are still far from expectations. In any event, in order to reach the target, we have called on the regions early this year to come with confirmed projects that are regional to the region, our desire was to get at least one or two, and at the end of the three projects to the region, we can now say that we have on average more than one project per region, but without finding any additional source, we will not get far. We note that there is a significant regional imbalance that will have to be addressed by including additional projects into arrangements in the coming years. The preparation of regional development arrangements should not be understood as a single act, but rather as a process of identifying and providing resources for the most important regional projects. Number and organisation of regional development agencies. This year, a new law on promoting coherent regional development was adopted, the law was in public debate, questions were raised about the work, organisation and number of regional development agencies. At present, the situation in this area is regulated as prescribed by law. All 12 regional development agencies are registered for the entire programming period until 2020. We are not planning a change in number and organisation, but you know that there have been some changes, and in the past two areas, the regions have taken away the powers of existing development agencies, created a new one. In one case, however, we are dealing with the bankruptcy of the current development agency and also with the start of a new one. As regards the assessment of the work of regional development agencies, there are different situations across regions, some of which are facing problems, some of them human resources, and others are doing great. Now if you ask me at this point to name them, I will avoid this issue at this point, because we are all in agreement. I expect that everyone, including those who are not doing well enough, will make one important step forward in the work itself. In the last year, the work of regional development agencies has been increasing, and the agencies have been providing professional assistance for the functioning of development councils, two cohesion regions, and the cohesion regions are increasingly active. We also support this because we will also provide concrete human assistance, so that all the worlds, the East and the West, will work more successfully. In addition to this 100 million already allowed, we intend to devote most of our energy to providing resources to agree with the other three ministries to carry out at least two projects per region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u130	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, will you request a complete response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your answer. I would also like to ask for a supplement, if we are going to the development dialogue first. You mentioned that there are differences on the one hand between the region itself and on the other hand between what ministries can offer large. I am still interested in how many of these regions, now that we look at, we now have 12 regional development agencies, 12 statistical regions, I am interested in how many of these regions have managed to achieve this development dialogue so far in the sense that you have already achieved some harmonisation on regional projects. In particular the case of the Lower Podravja, the region is coordinated in relation to the project, relates to the supply of drinking water and the cleaning of wastewater, but unfortunately the Ministry of the Environment does not have or somehow does not have any such harmonisation. I wonder how many such projects there are right now? In Slovenia, however, it is clear that these negotiations are still under way. Secondly, you mentioned, of course, that some regional agencies are doing well, others badly, you do not want to expose those who are good, and those who are bad, okay. However, I am interested in those who act worse, unsuccessful, ineffective. Where are their key problems? What areas and how do you plan to address these problems? Do we really need 12 regional agencies and within each of these 14 participating institutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u133	Yeah, first of all around the regional development agencies. The bad guys. I can name those three cases when there's been a switch. First in Celje or Savina region two years ago, three years ago there was a change in the fact that we have a new regional agency. The most recent case with a new registration under the new legislation is the Zasavska region. The biggest problem we have or have had is the bankruptcy of the Pomeranian Development Agency. These are environments which, in at least two cases, are also compatible with the problem area, give additional weight and poor light to the problems in this part. I believe that now the newly registered agencies are the ones who will work for the needs of the regions without any additional interests and that there has been a harmonisation of the interest of the municipalities and of all those interested in going in the right direction. There's something else going on with the interviews. The fact is that European funds have been falling over the years, so there will be a lot of discussion on financing for development. In preparation, the strategy for the development of Slovenia is that it will be able to provide certain answers regarding the financing of the development of the regions. However, we can rightly expect that the increasing economic growth that we are witnessing will gradually help to resolve the issue of financing for development in the regions. From the State budget, the Ministry is funding the implementation of general development tasks at regional level for all 12 regions, totalling around €1 million. This amount has not changed significantly in recent years. I would like to point out that the Ministry does not pay the agencies, but rather the tasks to be accomplished in the regions. Some regions have more development institutions in regional development agencies. As a result, they no longer receive funding for general development tasks, and intra-regional organisation is in line with the principle of subsidiarity and the Regional Development Act of the region. The question is, how far are we? At this point, I can say that we have taken a physically and financially significant step forward, I think we have agreed on two projects per region, but there are terrible differences in the financial value of these projects. I believe that all regions in this area are harmonised because they have a coordinated desire, but of course these coordinated wishes must also be aligned with the financial options and here is the task that awaits us in the next three, four months to come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers and ministers! We all know that we have this problem with the remnants of food, both in shops and in schools and other institutions. A lot of food is discarded as undeniable as unused and the system itself, such as HACCP, has added to this issue and raised it to a higher level. Personally, I would like to suggest that there is a possibility that this irreprehensible and excessive food could be passed on undisturbed to the Red Cross, to Karitas, or to other humanitarian institutions without any bureaucratic obstacles. The same applies to packaged food, which is especially heat-treated and otherwise treated, not so rationally destroyed, because I think that most of these foods are still useful for a certain period of time. I also believe that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Education should raise or make programmes to raise children from kindergarten to some rational relationship to food. You probably already know that there is such a food policy in Croatia that solves the unnecessary destruction of these foods and I am interested first: Does that exist with us? My second question is: Is the Government preparing measures in this area? If he's preparing, what stage are they in? And when could we expect them in practice? You know, these so-called food waste programs that are now everywhere, which NGOs are also very interested in. So I'm asking you nicely if you could tell us a little bit about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Mr Ferruga, thank you very much for the current question, which is appropriate for the world food day, which was yesterday, October 16th is the world food day. At a time when billions of people are hungry, in the developed world, which is also Slovenia, we face surplus food, and in particular that food ends in garbage. Otherwise, we have done quite a bit, if this was sometimes the occurrence of 100 and more kilograms per capita in Slovenia, we have now come up with a little over 50 kilograms, but each kilogram is an excess kilogram, first of all. Secondly, in Slovenia we now have a special system which is completely humanitarian for several years, largely by Lions clubs, which bring food from where there are surpluses. This is the easiest place to work with large shopping centres that have surpluses, recognise, but do not have the logistics to lead these surpluses to where food is needed, i.e. where humanitarian organisations such as the Red Cross, the Karitas type or the house, are one or the other where assistance is provided to those in need. In Slovenia, like in other countries, the system is quite similar, humanitarian organisations have taken over this work as a kind of humanitarian activity. In Europe, this must be said, but mostly it is safe food and not warm food. This spa, which is now developing in Slovenia, is something special. But the fact is, and probably here, Mr Member, we agree that for food that is intended for those who at some point have difficulty, it is equally important to ensure that it is safe, as is the food that is intended for you or for me. Systems that ensure that food is also safe for the consumer after it is prepared, but are two types, one is HACCP, the other is guidelines, one is possible. Humanitarian organisations in Slovenia have largely opted for a system of control of critical points, the so-called HACCP system. This system has so far also been subject to inspection, which is correct. What matters is that no punishment has been imposed. Otherwise, it was found that the system works, but it would be good for some things to change, improve, and simplify. That's why we had a meeting with a non-governmental organisation at the Ministry of Food. It was agreed that in a few weeks free education and information will be organised for all these people who run the system from point A to point B. In fact, what inspection visits have found will be shown here. These are not major errors, up to are errors that can be addressed extremely quickly. At the same time, they will get people who have their free time and not least their money because they do it with their cars, with their fuel, how to do it, to be completely safe, as far as implementing the rules is concerned. We have also decided that in the following year we will carry out a special invitation to tender which will allow these organisations to obtain the necessary technical means, where they do not yet have them, whether they are freezers or special means of transfer. And this was an agreement that was also adopted at the level of NGOs. I believe we'll take a step further. Another area is large kitchens in schools, hospitals, armies, and elsewhere. The problem is that these kitchens should not, in principle, have planned food surpluses because they work with public money, also work with private money, and the number of meals should be such as to meet the quantity of demand. Therefore, it is impossible, like in large trading systems, to plan daily doses, because this means that public money would be used to make an additional number of meals, which, in fact, no bidders should be allowed to do. But also for these areas, if there are surplus food, it starts to develop a system of heat, but this system of heat will be something of our original, this is, say, not abroad. But this is about food, and if there is no proper, cold or closed chain brought from point A to point B, there would be an increased risk, which we do not want. That food is still safe, however, this will have to work in accordance with the HACCP principles or perhaps in accordance with some of the principles of good practice guidelines. So I think the project is working, and we will keep trying to make it easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferluga, you're requesting a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you. Just that, thank you for reminding me of World Food Day, this was also the main issue. I would like only to ask for this joint education, it is said to have a relation to food, that this is also one of the projects that was at the Ministry of Agriculture in order to be in contact with the Ministry of Education, this is interesting, and if they operate within the meaning of the CSO, these social food distribution centres are said to be. That's the way you thought. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u141	Yeah, this is where I was thinking mostly about logistics. Why? Because basically the fact is that extra food is. The easiest thing, of course, is to manage excess food on large trading systems. Here also allow me to publicly thank such large trading systems that are ready to sell this surplus food, in particular all volunteers and volunteers who are now operating in a large space within Slovenian cities, to actually perform this function. But the fact is, and these people are also aware and fully respected, that food, which then comes to those, at some point is difficult, but in fact all the criteria also for the transport path to maintain this safety must be maintained. Here I think we agree, Mr Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar will ask the Minister of Finance, mag. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Chairman. I think I will ask what the right person is, and I think that even at the right time, given that there is some public understanding of the solution to the biggest bank hole in the history of Slovenia in the way that an excessive bank hole has been calculated according to the actual situation. However, I think this issue is very important from the point of view of hurrying or the functioning of the authorities as an emergency aid, especially because the taxpayers were the ones who paid for the resolution of this bank hole. Mrs Vraničar was then, if I am not mistaken, the Secretary of State, so best informed in this Chamber about the situation at that time. I think it's also so far away right now that without any political or other prejudices, the Minister can very clearly define up to the public-exposed dilemma and answer: Has the rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia been overpaid? I want a very concrete answer from the Minister to this very simple question, at first glance a simple question, and we would not like to receive an answer in order to avoid certain specificities, because, as I said, the Minister is best informed in this area in this matter. The second time I'm interested in what's going to happen, I'm going to say, clear up this dilemma: Who proposed and who confirmed the methodology by which portfolio quality tests and stress tests were carried out, and who all agreed with it? I would also like to ask you a question that has been raised several times: Have these assumptions been made in accordance with international accounting standards? I want to know: Finally, who confirmed the macroeconomic assumptions on the basis of which the portfolio quality review was carried out and who set up the company book, i.e. those companies covered by the review and the amount of claims taken into account for the review of the quality of the funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Member, Mr Logar. Initially, I would like to draw attention to the competences of each institution with regard to the resolution of the problem of a popular bank hole. The Ministry of Finance was not competent under the Act on measures to ensure the stability of banks in the Republic of Slovenia to calculate this deficit, nor did it have access to data or supervisory powers in respect of which it could subsequently verify whether the calculated deficit was calculated properly or not. The amount of the so-called bank hole was calculated by Banka Slovenije and the data and also indirect indicators show that we have no doubt about the calculation prepared by Banka Slovenije. Let me recall when the law, commonly referred to as the ZUKSB, was adopted in 2012, was an assessment of the financial implications of the €5 billion law. The total financial effects of the recapitalisation of banks and the transfer of funds to the DUTB in 2013 and 2014 amounted to 4 billion 680 million. So, proportionately aligned with the bill. Furthermore, these indirect indicators, which I mentioned, show that the calculation of the deficit is appropriate, are as follows. First, in 2014, after the rehabilitation of the largest two banks, pan-European stress tests were carried out and these pan-European stress tests showed that the largest Slovenian banks were relatively well capitalised, but still needed minimal additional capital. So there were still some shortcomings. The correctness of the calculation of the bank hole can also be confirmed by the fact that DUTB had to continue to weaken all the funds it received in the context of the implementation of the risk transfer measure, as confirmed by the auditors who audited the DUTB accounts. Your question, I assume, stems from the media report on Dr. Bolet's study. I must say that I do not know this study or its contents because it is not accessible to the public, which is why I cannot define it. As for the additional questions raised, I think that, in the introduction, when I explained what the delimitation of powers between the Ministry and the Bank of Slovenia was, I also answered these questions. Once again, it could only be pointed out that the Bank of Slovenia calculated the calculation of the bank deficit in cooperation with the European Commission, which also verified the appropriateness of State aid measures. The methodology is published on the Bank of Slovenia’s websites and is in line with the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Request for complete response. Dr. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you. However, to me, it is slightly unusual to avoid the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance for these macro data, which was ultimately paid by taxpayers. Czech Republic, the Ministry of Finance was not competent to calculate and we do not have access to later verification of all these assumptions. Who led the Inter-Resort Group after ZUKSB – State Secretary Mitja Mavko! Who else sat in this group – from the Ministry of Finance Mr Marjan Divac and Mrs Pintar Mesarič. Who else sat in this group – Miranda Groff Ferjančič, who you appointed as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. So, four people who have actually decided on the methodology or have not decided, but have confirmed, agreed with the methodology for terms of references for stress tests, for the book of contracts or which funds will be transferred, practically with everything that has then defined the height of the bank hole, even though the methodology and method have been coordinated by the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank. It is unusual that the High Representative of the Ministry of Finance obviously does not want to assume this responsibility in this matter. I can only imagine that in a way that doesn't matter – what? – were the calculations completely wrong or how? Because, otherwise, I would expect you to defend, with personal integrity, the decision of the week regarding the height of the bank hole. That's why I'm asking you again, because you haven't answered that question: Was the methodology selected according to international accounting standards? I ask a very specific answer. And your specific answer, Minister: Do you confirm that the bank hole is properly calculated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Once again, it is not possible to compare the official calculation with the media reports on a study that could not be fully read. The available information shows that the bank hole has been calculated in an appropriate manner and we have no reason to doubt the professional preparation of this document or the basis on which the Interdepartmental Working Group decided to propose to the Government the implementation of measures to ensure the stability of the banking system in Slovenia. As regards compliance with international standards, as has already been said, the methodology used has also been aligned with European institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Mr. Secretary! The contents of my parliamentary question are being sued around the road tables. There is no secret that in the United Left we oppose the total commercialisation of the environment in which we are moving, including infrastructure, residential area, urban areas such as cities, and so on. When we start talking about advertisements, we have a legislative situation about okay; for example, in the intersections of the board, it must not be closer than 100 meters before or 50 meters behind the sewer crossing, or at least 5 meters from the edge of the road and so on. Now we can just walk, for example, across the Celovska road in Ljubljana or drive through there, and we can see that this legislation is a dead letter on paper. I want to know: What's going on in this area? How many advertising facilities on state roads are authorised by the Roads Directorate? How many advertising facilities do not comply with the rules applicable to the installation of such buildings along state roads? How does the Ministry of Infrastructure react in cases where advertising facilities do not comply with these rules? In what way can the advertising provider obtain consent within 100 metres of and 50 metres of the sewer crossing? If he can't, how can there be so many tables inside these areas on Celovska Road? The initiative for this issue came from the base. One of the citizens of Škofje Loka made it difficult for me to obtain a request for removal of his board, after calling on the Ministry of Infrastructure, from which they sent him to the sector for removal, from there they sent him forward to the Kranj Road Directorate and from there for inspection. Practically everywhere, they agreed that it was a very big problem that these tables did not follow any regulations, except when an inspector came along. But the inspector said everything was okay. Then this citizen, who wanted some answers, began to ask her about the concrete tables on the Sava Island in Kranj, which you cannot miss, which violate all these rules, but of course she became all nervous, began to explain that she was not familiar and eventually sent him back to the Ministry of Infrastructure. The circle was concluded, five different instances passing a ball here. Of course, if we think of the majority of these areas, or in the hands of Eurolakat, which apparently obtains permits where others do not or, even if they do not have them, are protected. I can't help but think that the entire vertical involved here is a little underpaid.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Commissioner Miha Kordish, at the outset, I would like to deny that, in any way, any verticality of corrupt people in the system, I do not know the Ministry, the Directorate, the Inspection. However, if you have any evidence of this, of course, I think you will also make an appropriate application. However, as far as advertising is concerned, I would also like to point out that we, too, in the ministry, whose mission is also to ensure the safety of road users, are disturbed by the many advertising panels in the vicinity of public roads, because we know that these panels are in some way diverting the attention of drivers, which, as a result, has a negative impact on traffic safety. On the other hand, I can agree with you that they often reflect the appearance of our country. However, the fact is that this type of advertising is not possible and will not be completely prohibited in the future, but we want to limit to the maximum extent possible the establishment of such public information and advertising facilities along state roads. To this end, a so-called package of new road traffic legislation was also adopted in 2010, where the Roads Act then, in Article 78, provides that the establishment of information and advertising facilities in the area of the State road at the time of the settlement is permitted, but only in such a way that these facilities are placed outside the transparent field and outside the area along the roadway prescribed for the establishment of traffic signalling. In short, these requirements apply to transport safety in essence. The road manager, these are local communities, or the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia, or the DARS, depending on which roads are involved, may condition or give consent for the establishment of information and advertising facilities only within the Road Safety Zone. These safety belts vary according to the category of the road; for motorways it is 40 metres, for main roads 25 meters, for regional roads it is 15 metres. In addition, Article 56 of the Regulation on road design, which provides that the design and the information and advertising facility shall be permitted to place at the road with a minimum distance of five metres from the outer edge of the vehicle, and not at a distance of more than 100 metres before or along the sewered intersection, shall be a intersection with directional, ranking lanes. There is no jurisdiction outside the protection zone and there is also no possibility for roadside inspections to take action. We do know, however, that in practice, advertisers often put these objects right behind these safety belts. So if it's 40 meters along the highway, it's more than 40 meters along the main road than 25 meters and so on. In all cases where information and advertising facilities are allowed in the area of the road, the advertiser must establish an elaboratory for the establishment of such a facility and obtain the consent of the operator. According to the records maintained from 2012 to including September 2016, the Directorate, the administrator of state roads, issued 883 consents for the construction of these facilities, and how many such facilities have been placed in conflict with the applicable legislation, but now it is difficult to say because we do not have all of them listed, and the fact is that the operator of regular maintenance, the concessionaire, within the framework of the review services, regularly inspects the road surroundings and also records such facilities which are installed, say, without the appropriate consent and, in this regard, the inspection of the appropriate measure. So I can say that in 2013, 2014 and 2015 about 100 inspections were carried out annually, and this year almost 200 pages – i.e. infrastructure inspections. Maybe you'd like to go on with what's left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Kordish, please fill in the reply, a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u155	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Look, we're dealing with a situation here. This is hardly a fruit, this problem, your ministry, however; it leaves a very unpleasant impression that when the inspection is carried out, the small one that may interfere with the monopoly of large enterprises, as much as Eurolakat. But the great violators are here above the law of the executive branch of power. Just saying that it was - what? In 2013, 2014 hundreds of reviews, which were already 200 this year, and you are driving through Celovska, and this Celovská looks like a Christmas tree on December 24th, is quite eloquent. I mean, it's the only place you're laying down your tickets and doing it consistently for a month, and you're getting rid of the budget deficit. I mean, it's such a drastic situation. Since all these tables – not only for Celovška, but for all of these problematic tables – are placed within the 100 meters lane and 50 meters behind the sewer crossing, I ask: How can a tenderer obtain an agreement to set up within this belt? As has already been said, this question was addressed to me by one of the citizens of Škofje Loka and was told in various instances that this permission could not be obtained, and finally, when he was sent five times from different phones to another instance, there was an inspector who said yes, but that they have permits, so we do not pursue them, because everything is ok. In short, it is not possible to obtain permission to put an ad board within these areas, except that, apparently, some have obtained it. Another time. Even if they don't get it, those facilities still stand there, and nobody gets hurt. Some big companies even turn this into business practice, they calculate the cost [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I fully agree with you when you say that there is a problem here that represents such a dimension of this problem or arises mainly from the prevailing situation in the past. I myself said that legislation in this area has become more restrictive since 2010. I also cannot now comment on any specific problems of your Lord with which you have spoken, but on the particular company you have mentioned. With regard to Celovská cesta – and this is what I wanted to say – I would like to point out that this is a road in the management of the Ljubljana Municipality, which is not a road managed by the Directorate. Therefore, it is responsible for the issue of consent in the area of all roads within the Municipality of Ljubljana their service. So by the answers and why, how they allow it, it is to turn to them. Similarly, all procedures and penalties relating to their decisions will continue to be followed by their competent inspection. As it is said, the Ministry, the Directorate and the Republic Inspectorate are responsible for monitoring state roads. Thus, in the case mentioned above, Škofje Loke could have been a road under the jurisdiction of the congregation. I can't say this right now. In short, I can also look into these matters further in relation to this company, which you mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u159	Thus, a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the Minister's response at the next meeting of the National Assembly. It's wrong for us to have a profit motive, and the roads are covered by big advertisers. This is also recognized by the law that sets limits here. The problem is that these restrictions are not in practice respected. The supervisory authorities shall not act as they might. I'm sorry. This probably applies to the local level, and my question was, above all, to the national level, which is no different here. Even when I was talking about Celovska Road, I tied myself to it in a work where it was categorized as a state road. I think we should discuss this. Perhaps not so much because we are disturbed by the commercial-advertising visual pollution of our country, but by the fact that we obviously have a system of control and sanctioning that does not work here. I am not saying that this is the responsibility of the current minister or the opposite; I am saying that this is not the work of the current minister, but we have a situation that needs to be taken into account, because at this point it seems that the supervisory and sanctioning services only tend to move when it comes to hitting a small bidder, someone who has hung a board on a wheel, standing next to a road or on the front of a house, and so on, when it comes to large fish such as Eurolakat, and you remain untouched. And the inspectors, when you ask them on the phone – I mentioned this particular case from Kranj – become nervous, deny knowing the situation. In short, things stop and they don't move anywhere. But in case something happens, as far as I know, it's in the discretion of these services to regulate the timer according to their own judgment. And we have, say, an application for some big advertiser board that will always be at the bottom of the drawer, some small fish that don't serve themselves out of it, I don't know how good the bread will be, but they will be the ones after which it will strike immediately, who will have to immediately remove their advertising objects and so on. In short, monitoring and sanctioning in this sector, for the first time: it does not work, for the second time: it works as much as it takes to hit small ones so that big ones can do their business. This is some kind of impulse I got from the base, and I think on this basis the National Assembly should act if the executive branch of power is to fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 October, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Mahnic will raise the question to the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will ask myself the question of the parliamentary status and social status of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. My question is just the continuation of the meeting of the Defence Committee that we had last week on Wednesday, which ended without a single decision taken. There I proposed, in view of everything that has been heard, including what the Minister said, two conclusions; the first, very general one, to prepare a report on the social status of Slovenian Armed Forces within one month, as well as concrete solutions to improve the social situation of soldiers even this year, that is to say in 2016. However, the second conclusion was that the Government should arrange everything necessary for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to raise their salaries for two payment classes up to the rank of captain – a similar proposal as it was for police officers. Members of the coalition voted against and neither of these two decisions was adopted, which is why this oral question was also raised because I do not know what the measures are going to be. We have been talking for a long time about the state of the Slovenian Army, so far we have been talking mainly about the state of equipment, in the field of skills. We know that last year's military for operational capability and readiness to fight has not received an assessment, so we do not currently have an army capable of defending this country. Now we have also opened a question that is becoming increasingly pressing, namely: In what social situation are the members of our armed forces, specifically the Slovenian Armed Forces? She leaked information to the public that more than 100 members receive help from Italian Karitas, we listen to various stories of soldiers who have been in the system for 10, 15, 20 years and receive 650, 670 net wages, while they must survive themselves and their families. The number she presents to us every so long, or the number she tells us about the number of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, we see that it is falling down and that we are unable or unable to reverse this trend and that we are far from that number 8 thousand 500 permanent members, as we should have in view of the strategic documents, but we are now also falling below 6 thousand 900. Madam Minister, with those conclusions I wanted to help you, I wanted to give you the strength of some arguments, which I am sure are in negotiations with the ministers responsible for this area, as far as the social and the wages themselves are concerned, but since it has not been accepted, I am now interested: What will be your measures to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Andreja Katič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u163	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, colleague minister, all other Members! Indeed, we discussed in more detail the social status of the soldiers at the 41st emergency meeting last Tuesday, as well as many times in the past, the Defence Committee has touched on these issues at its regular, emergency and field meetings. I also think that today, when it comes to the fight against poverty, we will shed another light on this issue in Parliament. If, years ago, the Service Act of the Slovenian Army of 2006 was able to achieve positive effects in the acquisition and award of personnel in the Slovenian Army, the crisis has practically destroyed them and the measures implemented have been implemented. I would point out in all this that the social situation of soldiers does not define just wages but is certainly one of the most important elements. The military profession is demanding, specific and I agree with all those who say that the position of soldiers is not adequately regulated. At the same time, I would point out that, unfortunately, the social situation of soldiers is as bad as that of those civil servants who have comparable and lower levels of education, as is the case with the single pay system. I said that none of the soldiers received a minimum wage, but that in the Slovenian Army they received this from civilians in group J, as well as elsewhere in the public sector. And when we talk about measures taken or our proposals, I would say that within the current legislation we have implemented a number of measures within the current legislation to improve wages and, as a result, increase the stimuli of the military profession. Thus, the payment of allowances under Article 59 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army has been aligned with the legal provisions, which means that in most cases it is a fixed amount per salary, irrespective of the actual presence. That we conclude employment contracts for a period of 10 years and pay the awards both for the conclusion of the contract; for 10 years it is 5 average wages, for 5 years one average salary, and for its extension. In the past, the conclusion of shorter contracts aimed at saving avoided the payment of these awards. The Ministry – as was the question, what is it today – is currently working to bring the pay grade of the Slovenian Armed Forces in line with the new pay grade of the police after the strike agreement has been concluded and is looking at the proposal of the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police. We believe that comparable professions should also be comparablely regulated. To this end, the Ministry prepared and mediated in September an amendment to the Regulation on the classification of formational duties and titles in the Slovenian Army, and I believe that key changes should be made at the systemic level in addition to this Regulation. Here, too, we have come up with quite a few suggestions, but they are at different stages of consideration or acceptance. In amending the Law on Public Servants, we have proposed that soldiers be transformed into permanent employment for indefinite periods after the age of 45. In amending the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, we have proposed that after 45 years of employment in the State Administration, the paid grade achieved should be maintained, it is said that, once the contract has ceased in the Slovenian Army and has begun to perform another job, it would not have lost the progress already achieved. Both draft laws have been adopted by lawmakers, and according to our data, the changes await the start of negotiations with the unions. These proposed solutions would complement the succession of rights already enjoyed by soldiers in connection with the cessation of military service at a certain age and would also ensure an appropriate social status after that period. Most of the news will be in the framework of the new Defence Act and also the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. As I said, different supplements for comparable professions should also be equalised; for example, a supplement to permanence, readiness in the workplace and elsewhere. We also intend to evaluate and propose the additions to the prohibitions imposed by the Defence Act on soldiers for the prohibition of strike and for the prohibition of political action which are not financially evaluated in the current pay system. In addition, solutions regarding integrated care for members will be complemented. I would like all these solutions to be put in place as soon as possible and to make the military profession stimulating and appreciated, but this is, of course, up to all of us, the governments, to negotiate with the unions, and not least of all Members and Members of Parliament. As regards the social situation and these allegations concerning Karitas, I would say that about 100 members of the Slovenian Army were those who received the assistance of Karitas military vicariate. According to their data, it is for individuals and families who have gone into trouble, namely soldiers who have entered financially. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u165	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with the Minister that other civil servants with similar or comparable education are also in these wage classes, but it is only necessary to say that such non-stimulating wage policies in the Slovenian Army also have an impact on skills. We both know that due to such salaries and poor equipment, members do not want to participate in field training, Article 185 of the Law on Public Servants is being used and so on, which will, of course, have to be resolved by the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, even though you will be limited in this, given that the soldiers will still remain part of the public service system. I was alone to help you, Madam Minister. You said, this is up to all of us – I do not agree with this. We have already given you the green light, and I would not suggest those proposals if I did not consult the Group of Members first. We agree, but we must make it clear that these measures, as far as some addition to the ban on strike is concerned, including this raise in wage classes, which will bring them €40.50, are just a fire-extinguishment. So that's what's most urgent, even though it should have been done by now. However, we expect concrete measures in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am also sorry that whenever we invite representatives to the Committee on Defence meetings, for example, the Ministry of Finance, we never get a minister or a secretary of state, but they send some third- league officials to listen there and we have no great benefit from them, not us citizens and citizens, but at least soldiers and soldiers. So, my question would be, and then I would really like to get this over with and sort of just follow up on the reality: When do you plan to put in place the deadline for all these measures previously mentioned?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u167	Thank you. I would only complete the allegations concerning social assistance or Karitas military vicariat packages. According to the vicariat, this assistance is received by about 100 individuals and families, in addition to soldiers who have gone into financial distress due to a longer hospital stock, soldiers whose partner lost their job, soldiers who have a larger family, four or more children, soldiers who have suffered natural disasters – floods, fires – and civilians employed in the Slovenian Army, with guaranteed personal income and some pensioners of the Ministry of Defence. Of course, I would like no one in the Slovenian Army and elsewhere would need this help. When you asked me specifically about the timeline. The government has decided that the Interdepartmental Group proposing measures to eliminate anomalies should propose a report to the Government by the end of this year. Regardless of this, we have already prepared our materials and forwarded them to interdepartmental coordination concerning the amendment of the regulation itself and the comparability of the situation of soldiers and police officers. As for the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, the Defence Act has already been conducted in the summer. We have already presented to some parliamentary groups, because they are in co-dependent – the Law on Defence from the Service Act in the Slovenian Army – now that we have coordinated, I hope that, to the greatest extent, the Service Act in the Slovenian Army also with all trade unions operating within the Ministry of Defence, we will send both laws together in public consultation together in co-dependence, because they cannot be adopted without each other in fact. We anticipate that this timeline would be implemented by the end of the year, so that by the end of the year we can also transmit systemic solutions to Parliament. However, as regards amendments to the Law on Public Servants and the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, this depends on negotiations with trade unions. When it comes to the agenda, I believe that our comments will also be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, both ministers! Schoolchildren and schoolchildren, as well as teachers, have already taken a good step this school year. In fact, we have to admit that they've just gone to work. Of course, with this school year or with the start of one more satisfied, others are less satisfied. What am I trying to say? Above all, the conditions for work are not the same across schools. The fact is that we still have many schools in Slovenia that operate under inappropriate conditions for the full implementation of the education programme, whether the facilities are long-term or on the other hand they already have beautiful new facilities, but unfortunately they are not complete. Usually there is just one segment missing; and these are sports facilities, either gyms or sports halls. Somehow we bring the project so far that the schoolchildren move into these beautiful new buildings, but the curriculum cannot be carried out in a cell without problems, as there is also a missing part of the educational programme, which is also important. Introductoryly, I would like to ask you literally for an answer given that we are in 2016: How many primary schools in this country do not have all the necessary facilities or facilities for full and unhindered education or for the implementation of the educational programme? Do you have any idea how long, on average, one such situation is being solved? So when we go from rebuilding or starting construction to the end, we say, in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bah Gibert. The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, has the floor. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u171	Dear President, honourable Member, distinguished colleague and, of course, all other Members and Members! With regard to the question itself, I assume that the most relevant concerns are the conditions for the exercise of sport education. As far as the situation is concerned, I must say that first and foremost he is the founder of the primary school, and thus, of course, all the relevant infrastructure conditions for the implementation of the educational programme, the local community or the municipality. This will then, in agreement with the implementation of the so-called social activities and in accordance with the standards and standards prescribed by the laws for primary education programmes, organise, train or at the same time maintain and enable the implementation of the relevant conditions for the entire programme. If we are talking about specific cases, it is very difficult for me to give you a very precise picture of what is happening in individual schools right now. The fact is that certain projects in schools have already been designed in the past period, for example, at the end of 2000, and have not yet been fully implemented, simply because the state has restricted, has severely limited co-financing resources to such infrastructure. During this period, we shall endeavour to raise these funds to the extent possible. However, all kinds of investment must take place for this purpose, of course in agreement and with the clear plan of the local community as the founder. As regards specific sports facilities, the municipalities have been very different in establishing this infrastructure, thus also taking responsibility for the management and maintenance of this infrastructure, while at the same time notifying different projects. However, if in 2010, for example, we had around €4 million at the Ministry of Sport Infrastructure, then in 2012 and later we fell to €1 million and even less. This year, we are planning more resources in the draft budget, 10 times more resources than in 2015, at least EUR 800 000, at least for those projects that are either unfinished or need smaller supplements to ensure in particular safe education and education, and that we can also approach these projects in accordance with the so-called implementation programmes that have also been announced. Of course, we want to obtain as many resources as possible for this purpose and help local communities to ensure what is necessary; that is, an appropriate standard, as well as the normative provision and implementation of all programmes. What may have happened in the country more broadly within the municipalities is that, as a result of dedicated European funds, a number of sports facilities or the provision of new infrastructure have been possible, not complementing infrastructure where a lower value was needed. To this end, we want to allocate resources that are still limited to local communities where these facilities are already in place or where only one supplement is needed to the finalisation of the possibility of implementing the programmes, as this could also satisfy a large number of such needs in view of the limits of resources. However, it is also important that, in accordance with the agreement with local communities, co-financing and co-investors are also sought for these purposes. For when it comes to smaller communities, especially these facilities are used not only for the educational programme and the implementation of the school programme, but mostly for the most part free hours, of course, for other activities of the local community. This is why, of course, it is the intention of the Ministry to help, as far as possible, in the current financial resources in particular, and at the same time to encourage local communities to look for other resources that can in fact ensure the quality of implementation of all different types of programmes. Maybe so much to start with.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor to request a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, and I like that you have somehow highlighted your cooperation with the local community. So let me give you one example. In 1999, Mirna Pec Elementary School began its construction. 2013 managed this school to somehow get to the dormitory for the study itself. Now we are practically the end of 2016, this school still has no gym. So 17 years is the Calvary of this school. Children walk a mile and a half away, so they need transport equipment, so they need to adjust the program and so on. The fact is that the Ministry agreed to finance the school in 2016, 2017 and 2018. The municipality adjusted its activities accordingly. They signed a contract, started with an investment, and then received only an oral reply, not even a written notice that the funds earmarked for 2017 were transferred to 2018 and what was considered to be a slight difference in 2018 to receive them 2017. This is an exclusive responsibility on the part of the Ministry. Why? I'm not gonna say the Ministry is here because I know what it's like, what's like, and you can take as much out of it as it is. But, look, we gave 123 million for migrants, that's 123 halls in Slovenia. Now the congregation does everything in its power, starts with implementation, and someone simply tells her overnight to change. I would really like to ask you here for an answer: What can be done at this point?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you very much for this particular question. Yes, it's a 1999 project. The primary school has been completed and there remains an open investment at the gym or sports facility also for the purpose of carrying out the sports part of education and education. The decision has not yet been issued and has not yet been issued for other such projects simply because the decision must also be issued in accordance with budgetary resources. As I mentioned earlier, what was the decline of these resources while waiting not only for 1999 but also for the previous ones which had not been settled by the Ministry, despite the fact that the agreements had already been concluded between local communities and the Ministry. Of course, it is the order created and we will make every effort to ensure, within the framework of funds such as these, at least for a period of time, co-financing in the way that has been agreed upon or presented in the project. However, since this year, 2016 and 2017, again for limited resources on this item, this item is item 2200, we will, in accordance with all the projects that have not been completed since the previous period – we are not talking about new projects, but about those from the year 2000 onwards – we will try in the right order because this is more, to look for at least those projects where co-financing is possible mainly to a lesser extent, to find a solution as soon as possible, because more communities are able to solve the problem more quickly. However, the fact is that the decision will be issued as soon as these funds are actually made available or available within the framework of the financial resources that are for each budget period; you know that we are in the process of preparing the budget and planning ahead. It is true that a number of such facilities have remained in some stages of preparation or execution by local communities, as they themselves have not been able to continue the planned work. We are trying, I can say, to look for all the possibilities that even when certain items within sport are unused to patch up what is most urgent and most necessary especially in the light of education and education. This is a priority that has always been in this ministry and will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor for a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Chairman. I thank you, Minister, for that answer. The fact is, no contracts were signed, but they were made together with the Ministry of Project, a co-financing agreement. The municipalities have received data for this, and these funds have been planned and executed. To that end, look, this country or this government has taken the average, we have new taxes, we agree on some funding, and then they don't, or by the way, find out that they won't get that money. I am not calling on you here and I am not asking you to hold a debate as a matter of fact now with the Ministry of Education, because I think it would not be helpful, but to discuss what the priorities are in this country. I think that this government has some wrong priorities and that we give money where it doesn't need to be so much, and we don't put it where we've been standing for years and years. But thank you, Minister, for looking at what can be done in concrete cases – for these people who have now signed contracts, and, of course, we become all debtors together, both the congregation to the performers and so on – and projects would really run, given that they themselves, need to be stressed, provided their share of funds and also adhered to what you said changed the project in the meantime and adapted it in terms of size and capacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 October in the framework of the votes. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to ask the Minister of Finance of Mags a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go, Mr. Hainz, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! Your Honor, ma'am. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, I have the next question. Germany is a key export partner of Slovenia and its largest financial institution, Deutsche Bank, is burdening many problems. The International Monetary Fund identified it as the greatest risk in the global financial system in the July report. There is information in the public that it is threatened with capital inadequacy, mismanagement of risks, and the value of its share has been halved this year. The Bank is expected to need a share or need fresh capital because the problem of mortgage trading on the US market in the past is now facing a penalty of $12 billion. These sins stem from the times before we have taken measures in the European Union to prevent a renewed crisis in European banks and have so far been thrown under the rug by the bank. In the context of the global integration of financial markets, Deutsche Bank is an important global system bank. The longer-term uncertainty about its state will certainly affect economic growth in Germany, and the latter is certainly crucial for growth in Slovenia. That's why I'm asking: How do you see the exposure of Slovenian companies to Deutsche Bank and what danger to the Slovenian financial system are the problems of this bank? Do you think a scenario of loss of confidence in the financial markets could be repeated and the crisis could consequently extend to the real sector as in the case of Lehman Brothers? Is our financial system adequately prepared if such problems arise? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance, mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u181	/Disabled microphone/
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u182	Minister, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Hainz, I'm asking you for a microphone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u183	Thank you very much again. Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I will begin my answer with jurisdiction or with a warning about jurisdiction. In order to assess the exposure of Slovenian financial companies to Deutsche Bank, supervisors are primarily competent, namely Banka Slovenije, Securities Market Agency and Insurance Supervisory Agency. I can confirm that until now, by the competent supervisory authorities, the Ministry has not been informed of any threat to the stability of the Slovenian financial system due to the difficulties faced by the bank concerned. We will certainly continue to monitor this area closely, including in cooperation with supervisors. Compared to, or unlike the system we knew in 2008, with the problems of Lehman Brothers, I can stress that today the European Union has set up mechanisms and rules for bank resolution. At the time of the collapse of Lehman Brothers, we did not know these mechanisms and procedures. I believe in the effectiveness of these rules and mechanisms, and I believe that, as they are set up, they can contain any negative effects on financial markets. I also expect that any resolution of any bank, including Deutsche Bank, which will take place in the European Union, will comply with European rules and rules on the admissibility of State aid. I also believe that the Slovenian financial system is capable of delivering any external shocks, which was confirmed by the latest pan-European stress tests, in which the biggest Slovenian banks also participated. However, your question has touched not only on the stability of financial institutions or the stability of the financial system, but also on economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia. These impacts are assessed or taken into account by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in its estimates of economic growth, and potential external shocks are one of the key risks normally highlighted in this regard. However, as I mentioned earlier, we will certainly follow the situation very closely and will act in accordance with our responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Primoz Hainz, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u185	Thank you very much for your answer. Of course, it affects the economy, finance and the economy, but I have a feeling when I read these words that there is some difference between big and small, if I may say so, in the European Union. I am reading that some banks are negotiating with the regulator. This is said to be – of course we have recapitalised the Ljubljana Bank and, say, the Maribor Bank and for punishment we must sell it or good, we have sold one, we are stalling one now, thank God. It is said that this regulator does not have the same vat for everyone in this European Union in this financial area. This makes me feel even or read that banks may even have calculated the penalty and, of course, its profit depends on it. But if they negotiate for the height of the penalty, then that means that it is something that is not something stable or something that could say that we are all the same in this Europe. Perhaps less than a question, but as a fact that I am undoubtedly concerned in this Europe in the other context of the European economic and financial situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u186	Minister, please, your word. Mr. Hainz, I'm going to ask you for a microphone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u187	Thank you very much for the additional question. We need to separate what's going on between the American regulator and Deutsche Bank, and that's one procedure. The second is the procedure if Deutsche Bank gets into trouble and needs to be solved. In this case, European rules for bank resolution and European acts are in force; European legal acts require the same procedures or the same approach for all banks, regardless of size. That is why I have already stressed in my first reply that I expect – and we are also working in the European Union in institutions where we have our word – that any resolution within the European Union will take place under the same rules for bank resolution and with the same application of the rules on State aid admissibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ms Eva Irgl will refer the question to the Minister of Justice, Master Goran Klemenčič. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! The substantive and technical shortcomings of the regulation of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims are becoming increasingly evident, as we have also been alerting the Slovenian Democratic Party throughout the legislative process. Today, we can see in practice that in the event of excavations, let us say last in Košnica, there is neither an investigative judge nor an investigative prosecutor present, even though it is a city, a place or a crime scene. So here we are talking about the sea and not the cemetery, because here in this area people have been killed out of court, mostly on the basis of an ideological criterion. Of course, it is clear that victims must therefore be treated in the same way as others, according to the principles of criminal procedure. We both know, Mr Minister, that it is a crime against humanity, which is not obsolete under international or domestic law, and those who have committed a crime can, of course, be dealt with posthumously under this legislation. I am now interested in the following: Do the State Prosecutor’s Office and the courts conduct any proceedings against these crimes against humanity committed or committed after World War II? I also want to know: Why is it that at the scene of the crime, when it is known that the scene of the crime, when people were killed out of court, where excavations take place, there is no investigating judge present and there is no investigating prosecutor present? Why are there only archaeologists, not forensics? I want to know exactly: What measures do you intend to take to ensure that when excavations take place on another sea – you should know that in Slovenia more than 600 hidden seas – that there will be an investigative judge and an investigative prosecutor in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u191	Dear Vice-President, honourable Member, Members and Members of Parliament, colleague of the Minister! Very detailed, unfortunately, I won't be able to answer your question. When we received it, we immediately requested additional information from the State Attorney’s Office among the first – 10. 10., we have not yet received an answer, I promise you, when we get it, you will get more detailed explanations from our side. What we know comes from the annual reports of the State Prosecutor's Office, which has a special division – I believe you have looked at it yourself – namely a special section related to the crime against humanity and international law. There are several cases listed in 2014 and 2015, including, I don't know, Barbara's trench, Strig and so on, but it is not clear whether there has been any progress or not. I'd like to add one more thing. You know that I cannot take any concrete action unless they go through the National Assembly in order to reach the presence of investigative judges or prosecutors on a given sea – I, too, assess them as killing sites, there is no doubt about that. It should also be known that their presence is not always required. Usually in such cases they come for the first time, they order certain actions, and that's it. I would also like to add, I was Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior when Barbara's trench opened. Unlike many politicians, I was among the first to go to Barbara's trench with Dr. Ference, with criminalist Jamnik, the director of the then police and the director of the crime. jobs, and I was very shaken by what I saw there, even before this romance of politicians, such and different. Why did I mention that now? Because when we were there, the place was defined as a crime scene and a criminal investigation. There were several criminals in the blood-delict department of the celery police department who were doing their job. But I agree – and we're not so apart here either. If you do a little bit of sweeping, you will see that I was the only pennalist, a criminal law expert who, in 2005, when this topic was very public, was very clear in an interview with Youth not only about the negligence of crimes, which, of course, was under international law, but there was still a question of whether a retroactively defined crime could be applied to these crimes. In short, whatever I say to you hereafter, there will be nothing more concrete, because I need the information we're going to get from the prosecution and the court, and I believe we're going to get it this week and we're going to send it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, will you request a supplement to your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Of course, the information you need from the prosecution and the courts — I would be very happy if you would then provide it to me. But today you can answer me: Why are the maritime certification procedures not carried out in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings or why the conduct and direction of police investigations is not taken over by the State Prosecutor or the investigating judge? This is of particular interest to me, given that we have both learned today that this is a crime scene, that people have been murdered here. So there has to be an investigative judge and an investigative prosecutor, sorry, even under criminal law, we both know that. I want to know: Why is this not done in accordance with criminal procedure? I want to know: What will you do to ensure that all victims are treated equally in terms of criminal proceedings? Where is it that, according to your criteria, in some way the victims are distributed to those to whom the Constitution applies and to those to whom the Constitution obviously does not apply? It is also human rights that the legal system sanctions those who have committed crimes. So this is where processing procedures are needed. I remember that once, Mr Minister, you have already answered me – I know that you are very well aware that these crimes are against humanity, which do not get old, but nothing is being processed. You are the minister who is in charge or responsible for such a situation. Why aren't things processing? This is where I want to know: Why is there no investigating judge and investigating prosecutor present on the scene of a murder like this?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I repeat, you are wrong for two reasons. First of all, we don't know which graves, or killing sites, or where the prosecution or investigating judge were present. I don't know. I doubt you know that. I told you that I personally knew that you were there; that's the first thing. Second, it is undeniable that the prosecution and the court, the investigative department, have been informed of any finding of a new murder. Whether they attend a visit and at what point and how long they are present there is a matter of their assessment. At no crime scene is the investigating judge or the prosecutor present at all times when there is, let's say, digging and so on, because its added value is not special, but must guide, of course, the procedure. Here again, we are talking about you as well as I, or in these concrete killing procedures, the state prosecutor directs a police investigation or not; we do not know, but I suppose yes, but we will get this information. I absolutely cannot agree with the fact that certain constitutions apply to others, not and so on. We could have had and have had entire meetings of the National Assembly to discuss whether it was a successful or unsuccessful criminal investigation into postwar beatings. Of course she wasn't successful. But I have to say, oh my God, you're not gonna put this on me that I'm responsible for this moment – processing and investigating. So you said I was responsible for the processing and investigation of such crimes. We all know the course of time, the decisions of the courts in the past in connection with this, even during your government. That's not the kind of thing I'd like to do myself. But there's nothing I can do right now. In addition to telling you once again that I do not agree to say that in all these killings there is an automatic violation of the Criminal Procedure Act, because I suppose – but I cannot say that I am sure that I do not have this information yet – that at every finding there are criminals present, a state prosecutor is informed, an investigative judge is informed, and then decides who, by the way, must also order excavations and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič and Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me first mention that the Minister of Health and I have agreed that, in writing, she will also answer the question in question. While this is a very specific issue, we are only talking about fate, about the future of our children. On various occasions, including in the National Assembly, you too, ladies and gentlemen, would like to stress the importance of early detection and addressing the various shortcomings of children and adults. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the Early Childhood Treatment Act with Special Needs, the issues of regulatory regulation and practical political consensus in the pursuit of the objective, which is to build a system that will be of the greatest benefit to children and their families. Despite good intentions, however, we are quick to encounter obstacles, at least in life and in practice. The services are not equally accessible and distributed everywhere in Slovenia, neither human resources, nor in terms of resources, nor in terms of quality. I am focusing on one aspect of this issue, namely the provision of logoped funds. This is about specific knowledge, about experts dealing with prevention and elimination of all language communication disruptions, and thus our children are increasingly having problems. Before 2010, there was no specific programme for them, but students gained knowledge through special and rehabilitation pedagogy. The need for logopeds today far exceeds human resources capacity and, given the stated agreement on supply for the weak, would expect intensive action to be taken to address the problem. However, for an illustration of the situation as I have been informed, the Faculty of Education in Ljubljana’s Logopedia and Surdopedagogic programme does not regularly list, i.e. every year, due to the mentioned opportunities for practice and financial constraints, these have been increasingly strong since 2011. With regard to this issue, Madam Minister, I ask: What measures are both planned by a colleague from the Ministry of Health or are being implemented to ensure greater accessibility of education and services in the field of logopedia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u199	Dear President, honourable Member, dear colleague and, of course, the honourable Members and Members who are with us! Let me first explain that the Ministry, together with the Pedagogical Institute, has already prepared an analysis of the education and education of children with special needs in Slovenia and that it has also been shown in this analysis that there is a lack of adequately trained staff to carry out additional professional assistance to children, students, students to overcome deficits, obstacles or disturbances and between them specifically the teachers you mentioned, such as logopedos, tiflopedagogues, rehabilitation educators. These are all profiles that are, of course, also needed to meet the growing types of personal needs that have been identified more and more recently. In view of the fact that we were not prepared at the programme level at that time, which is from 2010, it was also encouraged and proposed that both higher education institutions and the relevant health institutions respond to this need. I can say that then, in 2010/2011, the first entry into the course of the study was at the Faculty of Education in Ljubljana, which you mentioned, and for each direction there were 40 entry places. They also started to implement an inclusive pedagogy programme at the University of Primorsk, which also includes one part of these learnings in terms of special needs. What is important is that we received the first graduates in 2014, that is, that part of our commitments, which we have also accepted in accordance with the established state of analysis that was given, and that all together, at least according to current data, are included in these programmes by about 366 students. This is currently a cut-off number, we do not have the finals yet, because the school year has only just begun, but it is true that these programmes are not the same every year, but also according to the employment opportunities of all these profiles. Here, too, it is important to take a position and look at the development steps taken by the Ministry of Health, because we know that education is strongly linked even from the point of view of training then within education precisely these specific profiles. That is why, by the Ministry, both on our side and on the Ministry of Health, we are also rapidly preparing amended bases for dealing with children with special needs, because we have found that they are not only growing in scope but also species, different, the difficulties of dealing with children are, of course, different than they were decades ago, and to this end, we have also used several programmes from the European perspective to prepare the best possible basis. But the fact is that we need specialized staff to do this kind of work and that we need, of course, the staff they have [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u200	Mr Matjaž German, will you request a further reply?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u201	Yes, please, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. I come from the area myself, and I admit that this information came from my parents who asked me for help, because in my environment, in Novogorski, there is a chronic shortage of such workers. So I'm only interested in one more fact, and I'd like to give you some more information. Let me tell you that my parents have informed me that they are waiting for the first hearing from one year to one and a half years. When a child enters the education process once in a while, the average turn comes once every two months. This means that if parents want to, and most of them are, to help their children, they must drive up to a hundred miles [100 km] away. And one of those hours is going to cost up to 50 euros, plus time, plus expenses. That is why my question is as follows, Madam Minister: Would it not be possible to complete the knowledge of existing teachers by somehow filling this gap until we are educated on this natural course of staff with this appropriate knowledge? I understand that they are not as skilled as those who give the educational process through, but only to fill it up in a few years, because it is difficult to expect students who have entered the first year of school to be able to deal with these children very quickly. Thank you very much, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u203	First of all, with regard to the procedures for identifying specific needs, I must say that this active task has been carried out by the Institute of Education and in fact we have already arranged certain parts on a procedural basis right this year; in particular, to shorten the processing time and that both parents and children know more quickly what and what it is justified to do in the school process itself with this evaluation of the status. Part two, as far as experts are concerned. The fact is that we must leave this to those who are preparing such vocational or higher education programmes as experts, as operators of subjects. Of course, we are not involved in this as a ministry in terms of the autonomy of universities or higher education institutions. However, the fact is that there is also a need to encourage employment on the other hand, but those who already have at least basic education at higher level, so that they can complement it with additional qualifications, especially through specialisation, in a way that they may be able to perform these tasks. And that's the part that you'll probably get in writing from a fellow minister. Here we want to look for as many synergies as possible in a way that, above all, in areas that are humanely fed, we will also make it possible to have these experts available as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology to Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Mr Minister is absent, I ask that you also define yourself to the way you reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I must say, I'm disappointed the Minister isn't here, but he is. I will, of course, ask the question and expect its oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The migratory wave, which affected the Republic of Slovenia last year and early this year, has had very severe consequences for some of the environments in our country. The local communities through which the migration route was carried out suffered severe economic damage. I'm talking about ShantiIe, Brežica and so on. Many words were said by the Ministry of the Economy to help entrepreneurs and craftsmen to recover the damage caused by the migration wave and to which entrepreneurs and craftsmen from these environments had no impact, but everything remained in their words. Nothing in this area is moving, but the directly threatened are, of course, expected from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and also from the Minister of Economic Affairs of Pozvalška, that these things will be settled as soon as possible within the meaning of the promise. They are also convinced that such a situation is totally unacceptable because it has led to almost a decline in many small entrepreneurs and craftsmen in these environments. Most of the damage was caused by the service activity, here I am referring to the hospitality, commercial activity and could also mention. As I come from the congregation of Šentilj, I can say with full responsibility that this is the case. This is unacceptable and extremely irresponsible of the State to let people down, and the State continues to treat taxpayers' money extremely uneconomically and wastefully. Corruption in sub-systems continues, no one's responsible for major thefts, no one's being hunted by thieves and so on. I therefore ask the Minister of Economy: When will the promises of reparation made to entrepreneurs and craftsmen during the migration wave be fulfilled? Second question: Is the damage already specifically assessed and what are the figures for individual areas or local communities? Once again, I expect an oral response, of course, at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u206	Thank you very much. You'll get the answer. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for Finance, mag. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! The funding of municipalities in the light of the budgets adopted, I am talking about the state budget in recent years, is no longer sufficient for the municipalities for some development, for investments, but only enough for the municipalities to function in a basic way. Today, Slovenian municipalities can no longer keep up with the competition with municipalities in our neighbourhood or with municipalities in neighbouring countries – specifically with the municipalities in the Republic of Austria, because the municipalities are having a hard time slicing down, where the land for construction today comes after €9, including a municipal contribution of €20 to €23 – I am talking about an individual building – where business, economic building is concerned, and also investors receive non-refundable subsidies. To succeed, I would say, to compete with neighbouring municipalities, because today we all live in a country called Europe, the municipalities serve, I would say, new forms of indebtedness in various forms of public-private partnership. This is now very modern in Slovenian municipalities; it is modern for them to build more quickly different infrastructure of municipal importance; whether it is municipal buildings, whether it is kindergartens, roads, or other municipal infrastructure. If we take a closer look at these matters, it is nothing more than congregation debt, but the name is a little different. Dear Minister, I ask you: Do you, I would say, know the covert indebtedness of municipalities in various forms of public-private partnership? What is the control of the Ministry of Finance over these forms of debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Member, Members and Members of Parliament! Public-private partnership is a legitimate and legally defined form that enables public sector, either state or municipal, to acquire public infrastructure. The content is a form of project funding that is suitable for projects that are economically eligible. Or in other words, after they are built, they generate enough resources to enable or to provide economic interest for private partners as well. The Ministry of Finance may exercise control over the financial operations of municipalities on a variety of grounds. One is the Public Finance Act, which lays down, in accordance with the provisions on internal control, that the control of the State budget appropriations allocated to the municipalities shall be exercised by the Office for Budgetary Control. You will probably recall that we are working to allow, by amending the Public Finance Act, the Office of Budgetary Control to monitor the public finances of the municipalities at all, not just the small part provided by transfers from the state budget. The second form of supervision is determined in accordance with the Law on the Financing of Communities, where we check the total extent of the Community's indebtedness by category; either it is a common obligation to guarantee, whether it is financial leases or commercial loans. However, as regards public-private partnerships, of course, given that they have been carried out in accordance with legal provisions, the Ministry of Finance does not have specific supervisory powers, but can mainly carry out advisory activities – if, of course, stakeholders turn to us. We must not forget that the municipalities are autonomous territorial administrative systems operating independently of the State and are themselves responsible for the legality of their operations. While we are monitoring the scope of public-private partnerships at the Ministry of Finance, these provisions are not supported by criminal provisions or by some form of sanctioning, we cannot claim that the reports we receive are also complete and comprehensive. As we say, in the field of public-private partnership, we are primarily carrying out an advisory and not so much supervisory task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Žnidar, will you request a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u211	Dear Minister, thank you for this part of the answer. I agree that the congregations have their own legitimate form and that they are autonomous in their own management. Now I'm going to tell you specific cases. I know the examples of municipalities that can no longer deal financially with the so-called obligations of the public-private partnership and this public-private partner – in particular, these are construction companies that threaten to start selling out municipal property if the municipalities do not meet these obligations. These are practical examples! To sell off the municipal building and to sell the kindergarten. Put yourself now in the role of this concessionaire or public-private partner, not the concessionaire. These are practical examples. However, I believe that local communities are autonomous in their decision-making and so on. Such examples show that it is actually a form of debt, I would say, where the congregations went beyond their financial abilities. Such a public-private partnership is not sustainable in any of these cases in any economy. But we know that certain mayors, especially before the elections, have great appetites, we want to prove ourselves, that some investment or infrastructure is built quickly in the year before the elections, and then – we will pay anyway. It's a real state. In short, there is no control here from the Ministry of Finance, despite the fact that the financial economy does not hold [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I can agree with you that in certain cases, which you are also mentioning, there is an inadequate use of the mechanism or the Institute of Public-Private Partnership. And I can also agree that knowledge of how to properly design projects that are suitable for a public-private partnership is lacking. In this part, as has already been said, as regards advice on aid for the proper design of projects, the Ministry is working intensively with interested municipalities, but we cannot, given the existing list of activities on the one hand of state institutions, on the other hand, impose our assistance on municipal administrations in order to put these mechanisms in place better. Similar abuses or misuses of individual institutes do not only occur in the field of public-private partnerships, but also in many other instruments used by individual municipalities, so that there is no need to obtain the consent of the Ministry of Finance for Debt under the Community Financing Act. However, the question of what form of control is still constitutionally permissible in this case in view of the independence or independence of local government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, are you requesting a procedural procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General, for your answer, but I think you have given a very clear answer to the congregations. That those municipalities that are legally or officially indebted to a bank under the name of indebtedness need the consent of the Ministry of Finance, but if they are committed in the form of a public-private partnership, they do not need any agreement. Municipalities, let us joyfully continue to be so indebted without control! It's just a different name. This is today to be understood from your answer. It's just another name, and there's no problem, and then they're autonomous, they're in charge, we're not responsible for their behavior, their financial situation, and so on! There's no problem here! There is only a difference in the title of the debt – there is no problem. We've got real good control! And this is now modern in the congregations! This is the beginning of a new debt. It's autonomy, that's it and so on. We already know the first cases, but there will be ten times more than there are today when the congregations are no longer able to settle their obligations. There really aren't many today, but we know them. But now there are the same criteria, only a little differently should be renamed and controls are no longer available. I think that such behaviour by the Ministry of Finance, that this does not lead to any good future, does not lead to the future of the stable financial situation of Slovenian municipalities. I propose that a public debate be held on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19. October, in the framework of the votes. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the question of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and coworkers have a nice greeting! We probably all agree in the hall that politicians are not the best export item of our country, but they are athletes, and we are all happy when Slovenian athletes cheer up not only us, but also the name of our country is mentioned in the world. But athletes need sports infrastructure for their development, among other things. However, not only top athletes who unfortunately over-exploit foreign sports infrastructures in these times because they are not domestically or obsolete, but also young people need solid sports infrastructure in order to once be Slovenian winners of European, world and Olympic medals. The situation is such that the average age of Slovenian sports facilities, I think, is 37 years. On the one hand, we have to build comparative sports infrastructure with the help of the state, sometimes with the help of European funds. On the other hand, we also have a fact that speaks – in these days a call was made for the Sports Foundation, which in 2017 envisions the construction of sports facilities for a million seven hundred, in 2018 170 thousand euros and in 2019 500 thousand euros, which is one of the greats of Slovenian sports. On the other hand, we have a call from the country that foresees €80,000 for 2017 and 2016 in each year for sport infrastructure. I personally proposed last year to the Group of Members, which then also tabled an amendment to the budget of 5 million for 2016 and 2017. It is not a huge resource, at least for those who know how much one athletic track costs, one small football stadium, one tennis court and so on, but it is also an incentive for local communities to give more resources themselves, for that congregation that expects something from the country will give itself something. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, since in 2017 both the Sports Foundation and the budget allocated EUR 2.5 million for the construction of sport infrastructure, and EUR 1 million in 2018, I am interested in: What are the plans of the ministry in the area of the development of this sport infrastructure, which, in my view, is urgently needed for such renovations, especially for new construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Ms Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much to Mr Lisco for this question. The fact is that funding for sport infrastructure has been systematically reduced, especially in the most crisis years 2009, 2010, 2011, also 2012. We have already tried to find additional funds in the past year and this year, especially for those activities in local communities where sport infrastructure projects have already been launched, so we have also recently announced a call of EUR 600,000 that these municipalities, which have in fact had the possibility to complete the infrastructure facility just before the present, or some upgrade of the facility, or for equipment, to complement the infrastructure of this facility so that they have the opportunity and opportunity for a relatively small investment to complement the integrity of the infrastructure. This call was signed up to 77 municipalities, and the funds received were so much — that is, the funds allowed for the breakdown into 13 municipalities — which are also the most appropriate criteria or criteria for the tender itself. We are also planning such calls for proposals for the following year. Why? In the past, it has focused mainly on major investments in infrastructure sports facilities. These are the most modern today, and I can say that they represent the country from the outside and provide exceptional, even excellent conditions for certain sectors. Not everything, I'm talking about top-notch work as well as sports and recreational work. And in this part, the municipalities or local communities are the ones that are mainly founders or investors, in these cases, in the absence of funds often in the area of complementing equipment or completing a certain part of infrastructure that could enable other activities to be carried out, I am talking about various sports sectors. To that end, we are again calling on the congregations or asking them to convey their wishes to us in 2016. These are actually desires, ideas for further development. By 2022, there was an exception to many of these – now I will still talk about the wishes, the ideas that the congregations have – amounting to more than 800 million euros. We know that this is not real; however, it is necessary and urgent to complement existing infrastructure in a manner that will also be able to better meet the growing requirements in individual sports sectors, which are also modernised in terms of the necessary infrastructure. You mentioned the average time of the building. The fact is that these facilities are being updated, but also the sports industries are being heavily updated, including in the complexity of materials, the use of infrastructure and various additions to these facilities, so there are also challenges for the local level so that these facilities can be maintained in a modern way with equipment. However, our direction and mission is to look for solutions to those small projects that will be able to round up the activities of individual local communities and help them with some form of co-financing as soon as possible this year. This is also followed by the Ministry's efforts to find additional resources or additional possibilities for financing sport infrastructure, however, are called regional resources. We know that European funds are no longer available here, and that infrastructure is not available; however, certain resources are also available through energy recovery. In this area, we also encourage local communities to look for opportunities for those facilities where, through energy rehabilitation, they could also allow for the modernisation of sport infrastructure; also within those facilities which are either for school purposes or for wider local purposes for the implementation of sports programmes. It is true that resources are not enough, and certainly not enough, but every year we are trying to find at least this period, which I am aware of if any means are available to guide them in such a way that they have the greatest impact in local communities; not because of school education programmes, but mainly because of the use of sport for all and this general recreational purpose, which I must say has reached a high level of comparability with international achievements through infrastructure. Moreover, we are one of the nations, which also has one of the largest levels of participation in sports activity; also because of the infrastructure available at local levels. It's also one of the tests.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u221	Thank you. I agree, and I am sometimes surprised that Slovenians would like to be world champions in all sports, and we know that there are only two million of us, one serious European city, but it is. As far as energy is concerned, I am a Member from when Minister Cernač made two public calls, even over EUR 100 million for energy renewal, also for sports infrastructures. I hope that you will be actively involved through your ministry in the call for proposals that are now being prepared through the Ministry of Infrastructure. In this direction, however, I am interested in what are the plans for the development of sport infrastructure. You said and we all know that European funds are no longer available, the local communities want to participate, and I think that all these sports clubs in Slovenia, which are probably very happy with the incentives, for example, in terms of changing the legislation of gambling and change that has already taken place in this national assembly and has received a red light, which is alcohol at sports events, which would probably also enable a large number of smaller clubs to purchase new sports equipment and infrastructure or to rebuild existing ones. When you said 800 million, of course, these are large numbers and probably overblown, even in these times; but when cash about all of this, if we know that in 2017 and 2018 3.5 million by the State and by the Foundation. I come from the congregation of Sevnica, which is one of the medium - size congregations, top 20 large, with the possibility of spending these 3.5 million in the next two years, and would not be a luxury. We only dream of a covered swimming pool in Sevnica and Krka. Shooters get hit by a roof, athletes end their careers, instead of moving on and on. In support of you, too, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have again proposed an amendment to raise 2 million, and I hope that you will address your colleagues for a raise. And I want to know: When can we expect this invitation?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u223	Thank you. We'll do our best on the invitation to tender as soon as possible. Of course, we must first complete the budget work, and then also in line with the experience we had this year, we also need to draw up in some parts an even broader design, which has also proved to be from the point of view of local communities as necessary. As I said, the aim is to get as many ongoing projects out of these smaller co-financings as possible. This proved to be meaningful not only this year but also in the past. It is right that we continue to do so and thus give an opportunity to expand the activation of several local communities and sports for all. As far as the other areas mentioned, the lottery or alcohol proposal, including the co-financing proposal, are concerned, it is a fact that we all want as much as possible for sport; and it would be right, however, because it is also something that gives prevention, which also gives the health of the people, if I put it that way. We too will strive to find reasonable reasons, in what way and by what right measures we can take in these areas too.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Fox, please, your word is for a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u225	Although I am quite satisfied with the Minister’s answers, I am concerned about the crucial moment — the finances. That is why I think that, in addition to being most useful for the Slovenian municipalities, for the Slovenian state, and especially for what you said last, for the health of children and also for the elderly, to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, that 2 million euros should be spent more on sports infrastructure, I think it would be right to discuss sports infrastructure here, in the National Assembly, because athletes and sports infrastructure do not choose in the political fields, but rather choose after recreation and excellence. So many open questions, from health care, local communities, energy recovery and everything else, which could bring about the development of this unfortunately obsolete sports infrastructure. I expect or hope that a fruitful debate in the National Sports and Sports Infrastructure Assembly will be urgently needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Fox. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 October, in the framework of the votes. Mr Ivan Škodnik will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku a question. Mr. Skodnik, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleague and fellow Members! Today I will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology a question. Too bad he's not here, but he's got obligations. He had plans before. The issue concerns the area of tourism, which is even more topical this year, because we know that there are very positive trends in economic recovery. Maybe the minister's listening to me somewhere. Dear Minister, Slovenia has recently been recognized as the Green Destination of the World, so I ask you: What effect will this name have on our tourism? How is the Slovenian tourism industry following green tourism trends, and with what measures does the government support it? I hope to receive an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u228	Do you probably want an oral or written answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u229	Get up.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Mr. Breznik, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The time has come again in the fall. It's been 13 months since the first migratory wave arrived in our area last year. Lenart and the Slovenian Mountains were one of the first settlements where migrants stopped where the government, without informing them of local self-government, placed a migrant centre overnight; before that, it simply said that they were possible centres. After one year, we can see that the government is not doing anything on the upcoming migratory wave, which everyone is somehow expecting; and that, past the eyes of the public, past the eyes of local communities, especially in environments where migrants are not keenly willing, it intends to build or set up a number of migrant centres. Let me tell you, about a year ago, there was Schenchure, Kidrichevo, Lenart. Today, Maribor, Črnomelj, Dobova and other migrant centres are taking place. Minister of the Interior, Mrs Györkös Žnidar, I ask: In what way does the government want to defend the migrant wave; does this actually mean nothing to any migrant policy? Are you thinking about setting up a centre where even local communities like Ljubljana have had immigrant demonstrations where they wanted migrants, where a whole range of politicians spoke, including our fellow Members sitting here in the National Assembly, to show them how they would take care of migrants? In Maribor we have the case of Dr. Vesna Vuk Godina, who has put some migrants in her rental apartment and now wants additional funds from the Ministry for rent in her apartment. The question that follows is: Are you going to put in environments where people are strongly opposed to these centers; or where migrants are in their environments and even in their own homes? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. Member of the Commission, I thank you for the question, especially because you have also initially found that there is an extremely difficult period behind us. Exactly the time of autumn, 13 months since that very difficult period. We are preparing at all levels, with all measures, I do not even have time to repeat everything we are doing and what we will do in the future. But here I might be able to repair the impression that somehow comes from your question. Perhaps someone feels that illegal migration is something that Slovenia can avoid. I'm afraid that's not possible. That's why we're getting ready for this. Of course we do. We both wish it hadn't happened. I also believe that you and we, too, would not need any capacity, that there would actually be no need for this activation, because this would confirm the actual situation that the migration picture is manageable, that it has not deteriorated. However, I do not think that we have such a beautiful future and we need to prepare ourselves together for this problem. Why the capacity? Capacity is intended to control migration flows. First of all, there's security here. If you remember how difficult it was in that period that we had experienced, if Slovenia did not have the capacity at the time, it would mean that half a million people would wander around the country. I don't think that's in anybody's interest, so we're also preparing in this context. However, the situation is different. We are preparing ourselves in a different way, including with amendments to the Foreigners Act, which I think we have had very successful coalition coordination today. It is also a fact that at this point the country is focusing primarily on the state border, i.e. protecting the state border with established reception and registration centres, which are necessary if we are to ensure effective protection of the state border; and then the situation in the country will be sustainable. Slovenia or the Government shall establish these reception-registration centres, where these people will not be accommodated, but only those urgent procedures which must be carried out at these centres in order to return to the Republic of Croatia. All measures and matters arising from this migratory wave are currently going well in accordance with bilateral agreements, but in any event it is only reasonable that all persons caught by the police when crossing the state border are registered and treated as close as possible to the border and the place of return to Croatia. Therefore, all reception-registration centres, which are at the border, are primarily designed to ensure the safety of people at the border, because we cannot allow this migratory flow to disperse if enhanced illegal migration occurs. This is the fact that Slovenia will have to face in future times. If these capacities are not available at the border, then these people will not be able to be properly addressed, they will not be able to be registered and even returned or relocated, and for all the surrounding people living in those border areas, an increased security risk, including the threat to the people living in those areas. It is therefore very important that we understand what this approach is actually about. This is a system for controlling illegal migration, because the fact is that the regulated migratory flow will no longer be. It is classical illegal migration, which is also based on organised crime; and Slovenia, as a country, must face it. These centres will only be activated if migration pressure is increased in certain areas; even when it is not possible to provide work at regular police stations; because this is already happening at police stations, but we must prepare ourselves for a possible increase in migration pressure. We've already explained about Chernobyl in public. Three possible locations were registered, one of which was the most appropriate, but some other sites are still being inspected. If the solution is equivalent, a decision will be taken to apply this alternative location. But once again, the purpose of establishing reception-registration centres at the border is to ensure the effective protection of the state border and to ensure the safety of the surrounding population; as illegal migration is a fact and cannot be avoided by Slovenia unless it changes the geographical position so that this matter does not tangeze us. In terms of Maribor we have also explained, on different levels it has already been explained, and the President of the Government has talked about this in the end. Maribor is not a priority, the country is in fact preparing intensively at this time that the situation at the border is such that illegal migration is manageable. I believe that it is in everyone's interest not to disperse and that this is also a way of ensuring security. This is our primary concern and this is the concept we want to implement.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Breznik, you want a refill? Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Thank you for saying that migrant centres in Maribor will not be a priority location. However, I would like to remind you that last year we had this problem of underestimating – underestimating our country to a migrant wave and underestimating neighbouring countries to a migrant wave and underestimating the European Union. Slovenia did not bring its sovereignty to the Republic of Germany or to the European Union for 25 years at that time. We are alone, deciding our destiny, and how someone will cross our national border. And we were one of the major violators of the Dublin Agreement. As we know, it was chaos, we threw food away, we threw cans away, most people who had no status crossed the Slovenian border. I've looked, in recent months I've been in Berlin, Hamburg, Cologne, Munich, these cities have completely changed their composition. It'll never be the way it was. These people are now difficult to return to their homeland, and many are from countries where there is no war, where they could not receive this status at all. These people protect a number of conventions and also this naivety of the European Union. These are my questions, so many times dedicated to you, Minister; but I am not accusing you of all the problems of Europe and Slovenia, but I want this naivety to be rectified and that we have learned more from that migratory wave last year. That is why I want border protection to increase to make it clear to the world and to anyone who might wish to cross the Slovenian border that we do not want any migrants in Slovenia; except those who have special status. And this must be Slovenian politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Once again, there have been no violations on the part of the Republic of Slovenia, it has already been said so much, it is hugely written here, I will not repeat; but I agree that the European Union has made quite a few wrong decisions. The first wrong decision is certainly in those introductory times when the matter began to become very complicated – because we know that this situation did not occur in 2015, due to long-standing neglect and escalated in 2015 – that the Temporary Protection Directive was not activated for the Syrians at that time. This led to this mixed migration wave, which was very difficult to control. It works on the external Schengen border where the border controls are tightened. You know that the police are working very effectively, and they are also detecting illegal border crossings, and there have been some recent actions that have also been in the media, when they also broke down criminal groups that were involved in the implementation. The Foreigners Act is also a reflection of our sovereignty and the actual respect of all those elements that are important for ensuring our national interests. It is true, however, that any restrictive measure at the border entails certain risks, security and also in terms of the density of migration flows. We also know that every stop at the border increases the application for international protection, and we are also preparing for this under this law on foreigners. The fact is that Slovenia will not be able to avoid illegal migration but can manage it more or less effectively. That is why I think it is very important here that we are able as a country to step together and actually face this problem from the outside in a uniform way. So no one within Slovenia has caused this problem, Slovenia will not solve it itself. Perhaps it is just a comment that somehow seems to me that, in the past period, so at the time of the greatest migratory pressure, we have done our tasks too well, that most people are not aware of what was going on during that period. The police have made maximum efforts at the border, and the Ministry of the Interior has been extremely burdened. These scenarios, such as in Austria, Germany, Serbia, even in Croatia, have already seen such scenes, in Hungary, when these people are simply everywhere – by stations, stations, parks. This is not what we want, and we will do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen, so we also propose all measures to ensure organisational security; and ultimately legislative measures to avoid this. We are aware of our smallness, certainly security is one of the primary imperatives of the Ministry of the Interior and we will also propose in this context all that is our duty. In short, the State is obliged to take all measures in the event of increased illegal border crossings in larger dimensions, because we are fully aware of all the risk factors that are causing them; and anything that may then present problems in our country. We are careful, we are monitoring the situation and we will also act in time as we have done so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, you have the floor to request procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u239	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for the partial answers, Madam Secretary. In part you satisfied me; but in part I also asked you about natural persons who boasted about how humanitarian they were, such as the professor from Maribor, who now demands money from the state for rent in his private apartment. Once again, this is the example of Dr. Vesna Wolf of the Year, who boasted; and all the other criticisms, when we warned of naivety, of the problems that will follow, we can say that we have been labeled with impatience, with inhumane people. However, it is necessary to know, Madam Minister, it is not true, the Schengen has fallen. He fell in Slovenia, fell in Greece. Slovenia must protect the Schengen; not Croatia and Serbia if we are talking about last year's case. I was in Dobow myself. Look at the statistics of people who participated in terrorist attacks abroad who came to Slovenia and were not recorded. Let's remember what your electronic help was and the electronic means at the borders. Let's take a look at biometric records, fingerprints, how many of these technical tools did you prepare for the border at the time. You didn't have any. In the Age, for example, you had an outdated biometric sensor on which every 10 or 20 migrants could barely get fingerprints. You couldn't tell who was coming or who wasn't leaving. Of course, such procedures as the Schengen would have required, because this wave surprised you. The wave also surprised you by releasing the wave because, say, 500 migrants came to four police officers. Of course, they could only withdraw and let these people go through certain sections in the light of good faith. This is not appropriate for a sovereign state, because it is clear that the state of Slovenia does not want to; and let us conclude. The safety and health of people is primarily the work of the police, for Slovenian citizens and citizens. Various accommodation centres could be set up for many Slovenes and Slovenes. I also think that Slovenian citizens and citizens are not well informed of your intentions, that more should be spoken of in public. That is why, Mr Vice-President, I would like to take this opportunity through the Rules of Procedure to hold a broader debate and to vote on this at the conclusion of this meeting. My request is to hold a broader debate to vote on this, because I believe that there are many cities and settlements in Slovenia that are deprived, which have received nothing from this government, except that you are imposing refugee centres on them. I don't think that's a good policy, and I don't know why you don't put refugee centers there — you told me about the border — in an environment where people want refugees like some of them. Now let these people finally stand up for themselves, whether they are loyal to their actions or speak to one another and work at another. That is why I believe that this debate will be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 October, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacic will ask the Minister of Finance of Mags a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go, Mrs. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Madam Minister, we have already raised the same question in July, but because of the Minister's resignation, the issue has become irrelevant. This is the first time we have since your confirmation that we have the opportunity to ask the question orally at a meeting of the National Assembly. First, let us nanize certain data. The annual report of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia 2014 states that the claims for contributions to pension and disability insurance amount to EUR 293,9 million. Of this, there are conditionally recoverable claims for contributions of €115.7 million. This represents 20,4 % of all claims and 39,4 % of outstanding claims. Due to indemnity, Furs cancelled EUR 33.8 million of contributions to pension and disability insurance in 2014. In 2015, claims for pension and disability contributions amounted to EUR 294.7 million, which means that the amount increased by EUR 800.8 000. With regard to the above and the fact that Furs, as the supervisor for the recording of claims for contributions to pension and disability insurance, provided data on the basis of the Guidelines to Supervisors for the Registration of Claims on Public Finance Income, the Claims on Public Finances Transmitted to Tax Enforcement and the Write-off of Claims on Public Finances issued by the Ministry of Finance, I ask: Why did Furs have such a high maturity and write-off when he had to have current data on the liabilities for the assessed contributions and, consequently, on the remittances? Who is responsible for such a situation? What did the Ministry of Finance do to improve the situation? Is it planned to amend legislation that will go towards greater control by Furs? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Member, fellow Minister, Members of Parliament and Mrs Member of Parliament! On this issue, let me explain that the debt that you have mentioned or outstanding claims represent accumulated outstanding liabilities for a period of ten years, which is a general limitation period. In some cases, however, the obligations under unpaid contributions may be even higher. At the end of last year, so on day 31. 12. 2015, we do record a slightly higher debt than on day 31. 12. 2014, for a good EUR 800,000. However, immediately data on the length of the debt at the end of January 2016 already show that the active debt fell below the level we knew at the end of 2014. This indicates that at the end of 2015 certain obligations that were paid immediately after the new year were not paid; and this practice is observed especially when the debtors or employers decide to pay additional prizes or, in popular terms, Christmases; while the contributions obligations are paid with a few days' delay. The debt reduction trend from contributions continues throughout this year, and I expect that the picture will be greatly improved at the end of this year. As you have already identified in the question, we share this total obligation from contributions unpaid on an active and conditionally recoverable debt. In the case of active debt, the Financial Administration is still actively carrying out recovery procedures, while most conditionally recoverable debt is being attempted or enforced in so-called insolvency proceedings. In view of the 2011 decision of the Constitutional Court, the Financial Administration does not have any additional instruments at its disposal which would allow employers who do not pay their contributions in due time to be paid through a decree or by way of payment; but is available if the active recovery procedures are not successful, only the bankruptcy proposal is available. To this extent, the payment is relatively low. At the Ministry and at the Financial Administration, we are currently monitoring the situation with respect to tax debt as a whole, and we pay particular attention to the debts owed to both the pension and the health allowance. In contrast, we are preparing various measures to increase efficiency in detecting defaults and then for recovery itself. Most of these measures are and should be at the implementing level, according to our assessment, supervisory powers in the Financial Administration are regulated as a rule; more needs to be done on the implementation itself. Nevertheless, with the last amendment to the Tax Procedure Act, we have already proposed certain amendments that will allow for a faster payment, lower costs for payment of the tax debt, and therefore we expect that they will also have a favourable impact on the amount of the tax debt due to the pension benefit. We will continue to take appropriate action in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič, the word to complete the answer is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u245	I'm not going to make it up to you, but thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will also ask the Minister of Finance of Magi a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Mr. Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u247	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a question about the Claims Management Company, DUTB. We have been able to read again in the media over the last month that, due to the accession of Factor Bank and Probank, it will be necessary to recapitalise the Bank's Claims Management Company. I want to know: When did the Bank's Claims Management Company first inform the Ministry of Finance that if Factor Bank and Probank were to join the Bank's Claims Management Company, its recapitalisation would be necessary? The fact is that the decision to attach the Factor Bank and Probank to the Company for Bank Claims Management was taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a decision. I want to know: Who made such a suggestion? Why was it not continued after the procedure for the liquidation of these two banks, as was originally explained by the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance at the time of the resolution of the banking system in Slovenia in 2013? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. Dear Member, thank you for the question; the other Members and Madam Members! Allow me to be relatively brief because the questions were short and clear. The Ministry of Finance received for the first time a request or a notice and a proposal from the Bank's Recapitalisation Claims Management Company for the association of Factor Bank and Probank on 14 February this year. We also requested further clarifications and revisions of the data on the basis of which the value of the necessary recapitalisation was estimated. As regards the proposal to join the Bank's Factor and Probank with the Bank's Claims Management Company, the Ministry of Finance, as for all the other materials, is the formal proponent of government material for issues related to the DUTB. Why weren't the banks liquidated? In assessing the financial implications for taxpayers, if they continued the liquidation process, it was estimated that the costs for taxpayers would be higher than the proposed solution to the merger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Pogačnik, the word is yours to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u251	Minister, I thank you for these answers. But I will now ask some very short questions, and I also expect concrete answers. I want to know: What will now be the amount to be recapitalised and when will this recapitalisation of the Bank's Claims Management Company be carried out? You yourself said that the Ministry of Finance had estimated that if the company were to be liquidated on a regular basis without connection, the costs would be higher than in the case of the recapitalisation of the Bank's Claims Management Company. I want to know: What would be the cost, and why would these costs arise? Somehow, I expected that this rehabilitation of the banking system to be completed and that we would not have the taxpayers again have certain obligations. You will tell us what number will be needed from this address due to some banks; there is about 50 million in the media. The bank’s claim management company was set up to reimburse the company or taxpayers. Now we've come to a position where taxpayers need to recapitalise the Bank's Claims Management Company.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u252	Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I expect that the amount of the necessary recapitalisation will be around 50 million, but I am still waiting for the latest information from the Bank's Claims Management Company, so that we have not yet drawn up or prepared a final proposal to decide on the government when this proposal will be implemented. I expect in a relatively short time. As it is said, I am still waiting for the latest information and information to be provided by the Bank's Claims Management Company in order to prepare the final material. When I talked about the costs, I didn't want to be understood as being the costs that are now linked to the recapitalisation; but it was the costs of how much the budget or, if you wanted, the public funds would suffer losses, additional expenditure or a reduction in revenue if there was an early winding-up or liquidation; or what would happen if both banks joined the Bank's Debt Management Company. I can't tell you the final numbers right now. However, I can say this – Probank and Factor Bank had two public budget commitments opened at the end of last year in a group of 360 million. This obligation has been assumed by the Company for the Management of Bank Claims and is also normally enforced during this year. If liquidation occurs, in fact, to repay this debt or this loan, the question is whether or not it occurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u254	Thank you, too. Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor for a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u255	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a public debate on this subject. I'm sure there's reason enough. I am sure that the Minister has not provided concrete answers to my questions. The main complication was the response to what would be the difference in the event of liquidation. You yourself, in the first part of your reply, the distinguished minister, said that the fact that the costs or effect on the budget would be significantly lower. In the second part of the answer, you only mentioned the number 360 million. I am interested in the specific question: What difference would that make? Today we are going to recapitalise the Bank Claims Management Company, as you mentioned, about 50 million, which means you still don't know what that final number is today. On the other hand, you don't know what that difference would be. And I'm really worried that this number isn't definitive yet. Not to be another year or six months from now, someone will come back and say: The consequences of joining these two banks have created an additional hole. Now who's the guarantee here that this number will be definitive? However, the decision was taken, as you yourself said, by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. I'm sure the Bank Claims Management Company has been operating within the limits of abnormality since its inception, at least for me. And I would now not open up all the questions relating to the operation of the Banks Claims Management Society; but, in particular, to this connection. How much did the Bank of Slovenia actually participate in this? Because the fact is, it wasn't in the original plan for the resolution of the banking system. And where is now, Madam Secretary, the guarantee that this number will not be higher? Will this happen this year or when? And where is this money going to come from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 October, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Mr. Ferruga, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister and both ministers! Mr Minister, in the summer and autumn, they were in the coastal and karst area, even on the route of Divača-Koper big fires. These fires have appeared regularly for many years, have great material damage and also cause great unrest among the local population. You yourself have personally seen one of the major fires of the summer, along with Mr Mesa, and you have also made certain commitments to solve this pressing problem. I am personally interested in this: At what stage are these measures now taking place? It has been pointed out that it would be possible with some minor interventions that do not require some huge financial resources, at least to some extent to replace, correct and somehow separate this critical path, which could then stop sparks from the fire. I want to know: In particular, which of these measures are they or will they now be at this stage of operational action? How will they relate to civil protection and the operation of fire-fighting activities on this karst edge, which is very dangerous and highly flammable in the summer? We ourselves know that these weather changes also cause very dry areas. I know that your cooperation is also at the level of civil protection and fire brigades on the coast. I have obtained some information that Slovenian railways have already received certain funds to remedy this critical part of the track. What was accomplished in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u259	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Member, honourable Members and honourable Member, Mr Marko Ferruga! On Slovenian railways, the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia, and also at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we are very aware of this fire problem and we are also taking it seriously. As a result of these fires, which were at the edge of the karst edge this summer, in August and also later in autumn, some minor phenomena have occurred, a special working group has been set up to examine why this event occurred, to precisely identify the cause and to also prepare proposals for the prevention of future fires. The Working Group has proposed that, in addition to these measures, which are already regularly implemented in accordance with the rules – we have a specific regulation in this area, as well as a Regulation on fire prevention in the natural environment – introduce further measures. Let me first introduce what is being done on a regular basis. This is the opposite maintenance of the vegetation in the fire safety zone along the track, which includes the hive and removal of the dead vegetation; then limits the speed of trains on the fire-threatening sections of the line; is controlled by the burning of dead vegetation; chemically suppresses vegetation and controls, such as observation, information and reporting. Additional measures, such as the construction of fire walls, the implementation of concrete installations in these fire-belts, preventive protection of slopes against fires by means of a special device, a trimming. It's a liquid that then prevents fires. In addition, to arrange specific routes and appropriate fire-fighting sections to facilitate access in the event of intervention, to install special heat-rechargers of the treadmills of the rolling stock and to install video surveillance on certain critical sections of the line. With regard to the concrete measures for which the public railway infrastructure manager is responsible, this is SZ-Infrastructure, I can say that it has not yet received the additional resources under this heading. It will receive them on the basis of an addendum to the infrastructure maintenance and management contract, which is in the process of cross-cutting coordination. This appropriation is intended to cover EUR 100 000 for investment maintenance for 2016 and will be intended for the management of concrete plants in these fire zones. The selection of operators has already been carried out and we expect to start with parts as soon as possible, certainly this year, so that it will be completed in November this year. This will partially solve this problem in the village of Podpěč. However, for 2017, some EUR 200 000 is planned to continue these fire-fighting measures, which will be implemented immediately at the beginning of the following year. The construction of fire walls and anti-group fences will be carried out by the SZ-Infrastructure in the next year in the framework of investment maintenance. The documentation required for these works is already in preparation. The Directorate will also draw up a concept of fire safety relating to technical, construction and organisational measures on track sections or sections of lines in the Republic of Slovenia. So not only on the coast, but also elsewhere, in areas with large or very large fire threats. With the Coastal Fires Association, as well as with other links covering the high fire risk area, SZ – Infrastructure aims to sign an agreement on assistance in the implementation of fire measures, in particular to advise and provide fire safety in the event of fire prevention carried out by SZ – Infrastructure. However, all other preventive measures, such as the cleaning of fire belts, the prevention of arson and the suppression of growth, shall be implemented in accordance with the plans. With the introduction of these additional measures, fire risk is expected to be reduced to the lowest possible extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Ferruga, you have the floor to request further clarification.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u261	Thank you. I have to say, I went alone, without the media, to see this fire. It was really shocking to see what dimensions it required. You were there yourself. Perhaps one such measure that would make sense is also one of the proposals that we have received from civil protection or firefighters to put a camera on top of the karst edge. As far as the timeline is concerned, I'd like to be a little more specific. If you can say: When in this year and when in the next year? You know for yourself that the dry season begins somewhere from May onwards. You've got to watch out for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u263	Thank you very much. As I have already mentioned, these additional measures also provide for this video surveillance, as you mentioned, with this video camera, which would then strategically allow for a review of the most critical parts of the track. These concrete trimmings, this is what will first be implemented, are expected to be in November 2016 and then immediately in early 2017. The aim is to do this before the dry season. As far as the fire walls are concerned, I do not have a time-table here, but I can provide this information later, if we want to do so, because, as already said, in the framework of investment maintenance, there is a slightly more difficult measure. But the sections where this will be set up are foreseen and agreed, so that a double function will be achieved – fire and anti-group protection. When I have this opportunity, I would also mention that Slovenian railways have also worked very hard and responded very quickly in this particular case of the resolution of the fire problem, are very intensively working with affected local communities, and in this case, they have responded very quickly after a number of such cases with compensation. I think in this case we can say that the response was a little better and more appropriate than it might have been in the past. As we say, we will do everything in our power to reduce this fire threat as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u264	Thank you, Minister Gaspersich. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor to ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go, Mr. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u265	Thank you, Mr. Vice President; Mr. Secretary-General! In the last month, the Minister of the Interior has repeatedly announced extreme measures concerning the possible increased transition of refugees. It announced amendments to three laws allowing the suspension of asylum proceedings to close the border, while increasing the powers of police officers, including paralysers. Of course, in the public eye, the proposals have come under fire as they are measures which are controversial in terms of respect for international law, conventions on respect for human rights and the rules of asylum law, and also in terms of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In general, the most worrying is the fact that such radical interventions into human rights and fundamental freedoms are adopted practically in secret, without public and professional discussion, and are to be adopted in accordance with an urgent procedure. In this regard, I ask you, Minister: As Minister of Justice, do you believe that the suspension of asylum procedures, which would allow for international protection to be applied only in the event of a life-threatening situation, is in line with the Convention on Refugees, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, International Asylum Law and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? What do you think of the non-transparent, even secret preparation at the examination of the Foreigners Act and the State Border Control Act? Do you think it is appropriate that such radical and likely constitutionally controversial solutions are prepared in secret, without public debate and serious analysis? In 2008, when you were acting as Secretary of State, you objected to the introduction of a paralyser. Today, the Ministry of the Interior, in addition to the paralysers, also introduces mass control of passengers, mass check of license plates, use of thermal-visual cameras and radar systems to detect presence or movement over walls. Do you support the proposed measures and do you believe that their introduction is justified or justified? What do you think about the constant impression that, or that, in a very short time, there will be exceptional situations in Slovenia for which extreme measures must be urgently sought, and situations that cannot be managed by us without drastic interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms? In an interview with Youth, a relatively short time ago on the issue of the Law on International Protection, you said that, I quote, "it is necessary to know that this is a product of a certain time and a moment of migration crisis, when Europe and individual countries panicked and, in most cases, unsuccessfully sought solutions". Do you think this time too, all too panicky products of the Ministry of the Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u266	Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Comrade Minister! I'm going to disappoint you. Everything you have asked me is part of the government's coordination of various legislative measures. It's hard to talk about procedures being secret. We are not, the Ministry of Justice is not the bearer of these measures, they are intersectorally coordinated, and if they go through the government, they will be adopted in a public legislative procedure. As it is said, for any of the laws you ask me about, the Ministry of Justice is not the Ministry of Justice. However, the Ministry of Justice, in accordance with the Law on State Administration, is a ministry which, in addition to the Office of the Government of Law, must also take care of the warning or compliance of the solutions adopted by the Government with international standards and the Slovenian Constitution. And that's what we do. Until the government's inter-ministerial coordination process is complete, you will understand, I will not comment on these things, because it is the responsibility of another ministry and another minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u268	Thank you. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u269	Thank you. When I was preparing for that question, I expected two scenarios. The one you just pulled out is the first one. But I don't think it's an obstacle that we wouldn't have answered at least two questions because it's your personal opinion; and I'm also interested in your personal opinion as the Minister of Justice, regardless of whether these laws are already harmonised, however they are adopted, let's leave it to the side now. I'm still wondering: Would suspension of asylum procedures, for example, constitute a breach of the Convention on Refugees, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, international asylum law and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? I am also interested in your opinion on the introduction of paralysis and other measures for the supervision of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. As Minister, I don't think you're going to interfere with the work or the work of your ministerial colleague. I am really interested in your opinion here, because I think that also because of what you have said, the opinion of the Minister of Justice on these matters is becoming increasingly relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u270	Minister Klemenčič, please choose a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I want to know what the other scenario was, because you said you were expecting two scenarios. I'll stick to the first one. The answer to whether a suspension of some international rights such as asylum can constitute a violation of the Constitution or international law — of course, absolutely. But the devil is in detail, that's the first. You know, most constitutional rights can be suspended if, say, we declare a state of emergency. We know that, too. It is said that everything is in the process, the conditions and the fulfilment of these conditions. As for the paralysers, I think that I have already said everything in the past and that we have also said this in inter-departmental coordination, as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned. Once again, this is not our decision, this is the decision of the Government, which is the college body. As long as anyone is a member of this government, they must be behind these decisions, including me. And in the end, that is also the decision of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, who is absent today. Mr. Kordish, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u273	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since the Minister is absent today, I would like to ask for an oral reply at the next meeting. What's this all about? Local problems of Škofje Loka with some rapid national dimensions. I'm talking about Ekologija d.o.o., which deals with the processing of hazardous waste. This hazardous waste treatment plant has been in Škofja Loka for some time now, and they have decided to increase it from 12 to 92 tonnes, which is disputed because this plant was not even about its expansion, placed in a room without any discussion and without regard to the minimum environmental damage that would have occurred in the event of an accident. Whatever we do when we talk about hazardous waste, we must be aware that it is still a highly dangerous and toxic activity that escapes control in the event of a major earthquake, regardless of what protection we have provided. In doing so, even basic protection is not taken care of at this time. Our municipal councillors visited this company, came back and said that the appliances looked like they were made at home without any certificates. There is no security guard, which is also evidenced by the police record that it was hacked in there. Our congregation councilman also said that any child with a scissors could come along and pierce the barrels. Then there's the fire protection here, not to mention that the company's just connected to the internal sewer of the Gorenje area and that it measures its discharges only with pH meters and so on. The consequences, if any inconvenience had occurred here, would have been enormous, especially in the environmental sense, a cleaning plant, which is there, would have been poisoned by the Sorcean field, the river Sora and so on. That's why I want to know: If Arso carried out a review during the environmental consent procedure of the facilities in which the waste was to be processed, was it only for forecasts or for unannounced tours? Have any irregularities been identified? Why does a company that has been in breach of legislation and business for years without authorisation allow business to be legalized instead of being prevented from doing so? Do you believe that, in a specific case, the creation of capital interests is premeditated and the well-being of the local population? The last question is partly political, my answer to it is – yes, it certainly is. And if Ceta is accepted, the case of environmentally harmful Ecology d.o.o. in Škofja Loka is something that will happen in our entire country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Kordish. You will receive an answer at the 24th regular session. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik, the last question. Lord Mahnic, here you are. Your word is.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Minister of Public Administration signed a letter of intent with Uber a few days ago. I welcome this signature, I think it is right for Uber to open the door to Slovenia. Uber has many satisfied users; both those who offer these services and those who benefit from these services. It is high time we opened the door to this cooperative or divisional economy. I advocate the the thesis that economic freedom is the prerequisite for all other freedoms. So today we are witnessing in this modern society, even today the Prime Minister has been talking about the industrial revolution, the fourth industrial revolution, which in itself has not come to us in such a way that we have implemented and introduced various regulations, that the state has increasingly intervened in the labour market, into the economy itself; but the fourth industrial revolution has brought deregulation. So today we have, let's say, the largest overnight provider in the world who doesn't own a single property, we're talking about Airbnb; we have the largest taxi service provider who doesn't own a single car, that's Uber; we have the biggest seller who doesn't own a single store, that's Alibaba; that's not to mention that we have the biggest media company that doesn't have any media house and no journalists, that's Facebook. Although this letter of intent was positive, we are now witnessing to the lobby of taxis, which are already protected by the law, no one else in Slovenia except taxi drivers can or must not offer public transport. Uber brings exactly this, opens up the market, brings pluralisation and, of course, you snooze in this taxi lobby. It must be said that no country in the European Union has banned Ubra; however, the fact that Uber is not present everywhere is a fact. I used it myself in the United States of America, I used it in Germany, I used it in France, very positive experience with Uber. You pay 20 euros for a cab, Uber costs 8 euros. Finally, it is only important that the provider and the user of these services are satisfied. Mr. Minister, I'm specifically interested in: What will you do to make as little regulation as possible in the event of Uber's arrival? When can we expect his arrival? How are we going to amend legislation in the future to open the door to the dividing economy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u277	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Mr Member, for this matter. In this very interesting issue of Ubra, which has been emerging lately, let me say a few things because there are obviously misunderstandings. Firstly, in America I did not discuss when Uber will start driving in Slovenia. The letter of intent, if you have read it, specifically refers to a conversation with a typical representative of the collaborative economy and one country that has to resolve issues among themselves, how can an interconnecting company actually start operating within a legislative framework that is not prepared for this. And we have this case all over Europe. The letter of intent was not about when Uber will start working in Slovenia, but about how Ubro and I will solve those fundamental issues as a case of the collaborative economy. These fundamental issues that we need to resolve in regulation are, above all, labour relations, because if someone drives independently for Ubra, he is not employed by the Ubru, but he is active. Therefore, this moment in Slovenia, Uber can only drive through companies that are registered and licensed to carry out transport operations, or independent entrepreneurs, to have this license. And in this direction, as far as I am aware, the Ministry of Infrastructure is also agreeing that this ride could be possible; but not as natural persons. The second issue is taxation. So it's not about who's better – either cabbies or Uber. It is that everyone has the same tax; and this is a condition that they can start operating on the market. And the third issue that needs to be resolved in legislation is consumer protection. Because we all know that most of these cases of a collaborative economy come from the United States of America, where the consumer and provider relationship is significantly different from in Europe, where the country has to take a stronger protective role. These are also the three fundamental issues in which these areas need to be amended by law. What are we going to do to make these legislative obstacles as few as possible? It's just that we recognize these new forms of collaborative economy, because that's the result of digitisation. The result of digitisation is not computers and cables, but new forms of collaborative economy. We must therefore allow in legislation not to seek for each provider any special treatment or interpretation or bank changes of laws, but to introduce these three basic areas of employment, consumer protection and equal taxation in general into our legislation. Then we will be open to all other forms of the collaborative economy, but open in a way that the providers of the collaborative economy will not constitute unfair competition for existing operators; and this is the key. If, for example, he drives Uber and is not taxed; he drives a taxi driver and is taxed, this is an unacceptable situation which even in Slovenia must not be allowed. And these three basic areas are the ones that we also need to regulate in legislation. But it is not one law, but it will have to be cut into legislation in the field of labour, in the field of transport, as you said about Airbnb in the area of accommodation, the protection of those who use it. In short, it's a process that won't happen overnight. At the moment, in these cases and in cooperation, as agreed with Ubro, we are looking for optimal solutions for the country and citizens, as well as solutions that allow these new models to start operating on our market.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u278	Thank you. Mr. Mahnic, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u279	Thank you, Vice President. I agree, Minister. I didn't even say you signed when Uber came. I know what the letter of intent is, and I also supported you to sign this; just as I will support you to make all the appropriate grounds for this company to come as soon as possible. I agree with you about unfair competition, that someone is driving untaxed, someone is driving taxed; but competition must in any case be. We also have legislation that mainly regulates a lot and also restricts taxi services. For example, a taxi driver must apply for a minimum of one licence before the start of the operation and, in most cases, for two. First, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia publishes the municipality. We know that some of the congregation councils are now talking about taking decisions to protect their taxi service. The European Agenda for the Social Economy has somehow calculated and also assessed the arrival of Ubra in the European Union countries for an additional EUR 160 to 570 million for our economy. We also talked a lot about Ubura on Saturday in the world of our young man, and we also adopted a resolution, because we are convinced that politics has to step in with time, that the collaborative economy changes normal business models, and that there are also many difficulties in certain interest associations; as I have already said, taxi drivers and so-called radical parts of the left, if we look at the political spectrum, oppose this. The revolutionary business model makes it possible to use private property for commercial purposes, which is certainly progress; and in this case we can talk about a new industrial revolution. Transactions catalyse online platforms where providers and customers can meet freely.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Mahnic. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u281	Thank you, Chairman. If you'll allow me a few more thoughts. We're talking about so-called disruptive technologies, which are what we call disruptive technologies. They are disturbing because they bring something new into existing business models; and the logical response is that we all resist it. But something that matters to me, to Slovenia, even to this esteemed National Assembly, is that we understand that our decision is not whether we will adopt these technologies or not; but they are here and we cannot bypass them. However, if we see opportunities on these occasions, or if we see threats on these occasions, it is up to us whether we as a country will react relatively quickly, fairly regulate these relations that I have talked about – protection of workers, protection of consumers, equality in the market – then we can find in these technologies in Slovenia a very large economic incentive; in particular, the opportunity for Slovenian knowledge, which is already proving today, also on the solutions that have emerged in Slovenia, that we are more than willing to participate in these modern business models. The European agenda for a collaborative economy has strongly supported or encouraged Member States to open doors to these collaborative models; but not blindly, but to prepare our legislative frameworks to participate in the market, because we are solving one of the biggest problems of this modern world, so that productivity does not grow rapidly enough, given how fast consumption is increasing, the ageing of society, the health problem and so on. By linking materials or things that we need to produce with the collaborative economies, and not by having to own everything, but by sharing things with each other. You don't have your own car, but you use Ubrow's, you don't have a hotel, but you use Airbnb's room, that's one of the models that's going to make productivity grow much faster than you could in classic models if you had to build all these resources and own them. This is an opportunity for the rapid development of Slovenia and this is also a global opportunity for the world to turn to greener and more sustainable technologies than now with current forms of economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Jan Mahnic, you have the floor for a procedural request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u283	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate. Not because I am not satisfied with the Minister's response, but because, as the Minister said, because we are talking about some new technologies, we are talking about some innovation. We all agree that any progress is made to give any development something new, but the priorities are triggering some resistance. For this reason, I believe that there is a need for a debate in this national assembly, well-intentioned. Nevertheless, I would like to hear an indicative date when all marriage and other acts could be arranged to make the basis for Uber’s arrival. But above all, how are we going to do it? I agree that here is a question of the suitability of drivers. I absolutely believe that young drivers are not the ones who could have access to, let's say, as providers, some work relationship; but we need to set some criteria, who can be the driver, how to make insurance, or whether you have a car properly technically inspected. In the case of Uburo, it is a matter of offering transport within the city, so it is an additional contribution when we talk about green energy, green economy, some progress, including reducing the environmental burden. I would suggest, as I said, that this is being discussed. We are also talking a lot about the fine work here, especially now this radical part of the left, which is linked at all levels to the unions that are most opposed to the arrival of Uber and, of course, taxi drivers. I hope then that the hotelers will not rise when we begin to speak, but Airbnb will come here and the other elements or companies that operate on the divisional economy. If we want to keep pace with time, if we do not want countries to outrun us on the left and right, young people are actually using these services today, let us also give young people a chance. Most of the drivers I was driving with when I was using the Uber app were young people who were in college this morning who were in schools that had, say, an early morning job and decided to use the Uber app to earn extra money. Of course, to pay taxes, that there are restrictions here; not to go into such regulation as taxi services, where there is a certain color, size, exact dimensions of the sign they must have, all the licences they must obtain. Speaking of modern and advanced technologies, let's start talking about modern and advanced legislation and laws that will go in the direction of deregulation, not regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 October, in the framework of the votes. I thank ministers and ministers and Members of Parliament for the answers and questions raised. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday, 19 October, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 23rd session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Allow me to inform you that the first meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs of the 37th urgent meeting and the first meeting of the 38th emergency meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs will be held in a large lounge in 15 minutes. Thank you so much for a lovely evening, all of you!
