ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, Mr Saša Tabaković, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Mr. Jan Mahnic by 3 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček and Mr Igor Zorčič from 16:00 on. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister-General and the Secretary-General of the Government to agenda items 1 and 38, the Director of the Agency for Energy Mags. Duško Year at agenda item 36, Dr Mark Novak, President of the Council of Justice at item 40a and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. Before we move on to the agenda for the meeting, I must inform you that Mr Maximilian Max Lavrinc, Member of the National Assembly, died during the term of office from 1992 to 2004. I ask you to honor him with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ Praise him! We are moving on to the agenda of the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 4 November 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda on the basis of the first and fifth paragraphs of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. The Health Committee of the National Assembly proposes to withdraw item 18 from the agenda of the 24th meeting, this is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing certain laws in the field of health care and to include it in the next meeting of the Assembly. You've received an 11. 11. 2016 and published on e-club. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, this item shall be withdrawn from the agenda without discussion and vote. I note that the 18th item is withdrawn from the agenda of the 24th meeting of the Assembly. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. We move to a vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and the amendment found. Procedurally, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear President! I ask you kindly if, despite the fact that you have been able to give us an answer in accordance with the rules of procedure relating to health care without explanation, you can give us an answer. At the College, the coalition argued that if this law is not adopted by emergency procedure, there will be irreparable consequences in the country. I would like to get an answer as to what the substantive reason is for this point to withdraw and who will be responsible for these irreparable health consequences. All too many things in an area that touch people very much go wrong. From the fact that we do not have the laws necessary for change in the National Assembly to the fact that doctors have been texting for a week. In view of what you, the President, argued at the College, I believe that I do not require too much that you tell my colleagues and colleagues and all Slovenes what has actually changed in less than a week.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u3	Respectable magus. Alenka Bratušek, I myself am conducting the procedure in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. When the matter was decided at the College of the National Assembly, the Government confirmed and the College confirmed that we needed an urgent procedure. Now, on the basis of the decision of the competent committee, which is of the essence of considering this legislation or this law, I have acted in accordance with what the Committee has recommended or proposed. The matters for which the parent working body proposes to withdraw from the agenda and to be placed on the agenda of the next meeting shall be withdrawn from the agenda without discussion and vote. This is Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, paragraph 5. I have to do what I have to do. As such, I am not competent to make substantive assessments, but this has already been carried out by the committee itself. Since he had proposed this procedurally, I also acted accordingly. To this end, it is possible to do so alone; otherwise, the questions sent are those that allow such questions to be answered either in writing or orally. And this allows the Government to make a statement on such issues. But I cannot ask the Government at this point through a procedural process to further clarify such a question. I ask your fellow Members and colleagues to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We vote on the draft agenda in accordance with the amendment adopted. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 75 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 24th meeting of the assembly is set. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 34 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, mag. Mr Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister for Defence, and Ms Mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Mr. Joseph Horvat, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, three years will have passed in December, after Slovenians and Slovenians have saved banks with more than €3 billion, and it will be more than three years since the start of an intensive investigation into banking crime. The fact is that Slovenian banks were on the verge of collapse due to the criminal acts of former leaders in Slovenian banks. And the fact is, in every normal country, the one who steals is also criminally responsible. Dear Prime Minister, it is not normal for our judicial system to have been investigating the biggest crimes in banking for more than three years, but there is still no epilogue. It is not normal for prosecutors to deal with civil lawsuits in the morning and for serious cases of banking crime in the afternoon. And it is not normal that specialized state prosecutors are not allowed to specialise in a specific area. And it is not normal for you to have passed two years of your term of office, Mr President, while your government has done nothing in this extremely sensitive organisational area of the prosecution. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! While political stability is a prerequisite for a successful country, political stability is by no means sufficient for people to believe and trust in politics and our work. People demand action from politics because they want our country to be fair, in which criminals would not play basketball freely, but would be responsible for their actions. I would like to point out here that Nova Slovenija does not want to get involved in the substantive work of prosecutors and judges, but we want to help prosecutors and judges with the legislative framework to organise and, above all, the effectiveness of their work. We can no longer wait in Nova Slovenija and only follow political stability. That's why we've prepared a package of laws to prosecute banking crime. With the amendment to the Banking Act, we propose the introduction of a criterion that would make it impossible for persons responsible for the over-average share of bad loans to meet positions in bank administrations and supervisory boards. In the new Law of the State Prosecutor's Office, we propose the establishment of a specialized branch for the prosecution of banking crime within the framework of the specialised state prosecutor's office and their staffing support. In the new Law on Courts, we propose the establishment of special judicial departments to deal with banking crime. Improved conditions for prosecution of banking offences are crucial for New Slovenia, Mr President. I would like to know, Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar: Will you support any of the solutions in this law enforcement package? We're tired of you just talking about political stability. It's time for action. It is time for our people to finally get their dividends from political stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u5	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Jožef Horvat, the effective prosecution of banking crime and, in this context, the investigation of the so-called bank hole is certainly our government's commitment. I believe that we all want this to be done as soon as possible. And you MEPs of the National Assembly are also doing important work here when you are adopting the legislation proposed by the Government and some other measures. But I strongly reject, Mr Member, your statement that the Government has not made any proposals to improve the situation or that, as you say, it has done nothing about the State Prosecutor's Office and so on. This is simply not true and I will show you with the facts everything you obviously did not think of or recall, even though you participated in the National Assembly. Just a few measures of our government will make it clear. The Novel of the Banking Act. With it, we have arranged access to data protected as bank secrecy, which is very important in the prosecution of this kind of crime that you mention. Secondly, the amendment of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks has established a noticeable duty for persons who are legally bound by the DUTB, which also contributes to this persecution. Thirdly, this June was the adoption of the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act, which gave the competent authorities effective preventive mechanisms and powers to deal with the banking crisis in a timely manner, and will also contribute to the more responsible management of banks or to the further view that these matters, which occurred once before, as you know, will no longer happen. Furthermore, the amendments to the Penal Code have exacerbated the penalties for corruption offences, which is very important, extended their limitation period from 10 to 20 years in order not to make matters obsolete as they have been in previous years, and have defined more clearly the offences of tax evasion and abuse of internal information, which is also an obvious contribution to such prosecutions. Furthermore, the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions has strengthened the conditions for the postponement of a prison sentence for health reasons. So our government prevents what's never happened before from playing basketball, as you said before, some who should probably end up in prison. The amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office has removed the legal obstacles to the allocation of experts with special knowledge to the Special Prosecutor's Office, that is to say, a concrete response to your question. Furthermore, with an appropriate amendment to the Law on Courts, the possibility of assigning district judges to district courts has been increased, allowing for a more efficient allocation of cases and thus a faster resolution in the courts. However, the Law on the Court Register has created additional possibilities for detection and prosecution authorities with regard to the acquisition of data relating to related persons of companies directly from the Court Registry or from the Register of Business Operators. At the time of our government's operation, the largest human resources reinforcement of the state's species has been adopted since its independence since 15 September, as we have allowed 30 new state prosecutors and prosecutors to take an oath, and I, of course, expect this to bring results now. We must not interfere with the work of the prosecution or in the work of independent courts, but we believe and expect the results to be visible soon on the basis of these changes. Let me also say that this year, now I am speaking ahead, we will adopt an important novelty in the government, a new law on criminal procedure that will further strengthen the prosecution of economic crime, and this will follow, with the adoption of the Government first, then it will come to the National Assembly, a novel of the Penal Code, which foresees a change in the form of the offence of abuse of position or confidence in the conduct of economic activity. This definition of a criminal offence is also crucial for the prosecution of the most responsible persons in the area of banking. The government I run has already taken decisive action not only to investigate the so-called bank hole, but also to prepare all those measures that will prevent future abuses of tax money. That is why I believe that the National Assembly will also support the laws that we are about to propose again. All those I have listed, which some have seen, and these measures, we have therefore taken together with you that the prosecution will now use them and also the courts in the more successful prosecution of the cases you have discussed. The government will certainly continue to pursue the rule of law and to fight corruption or crime such as a bank hole and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u7	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u8	Mr President of the Government of Dr Miro Cerar, we are interested in the results in Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats. All citizens and citizens of this country are also interested in the results. You're telling me you're expecting them, too. There is still no bank crime case in court until today. Let's say Iceland. Iceland managed to get 30 bankers with its reforms. Mr Harij Furlan, Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office, is also attached to our observation, which highlights the problem of organising courts in the face of banking crime. In his view, such organisation should be established in order to effectively ensure that specific cases are dealt with by a number of the best judges and prosecutors. Mr Luka Moljk, the District Prosecutor, also replied on Friday, 11 November, in a response to a journalist's question whether a specialised court would be needed, that the establishment of a specialised court would be very useful. On 26 October this year, the Icelandic courts sentenced the last bankers. Mr. Prime Minister, you didn't answer me: What will be your attitude, how much will you pay attention to our marriage proposals? We have engaged a large number of experts in this area and will now have the opportunity of the National Assembly, especially the coalition, to show how serious it is to pursue banking crime. Mr President, the functions come and go, but what is important is what we do as politicians at a time when we are in office. Thank you very much for your answer to my supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u9	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Horvath! You're right. It's what we do. At a time when you led the government, your client and some others, and at the time before our government's appearance, there was obviously much less done, as we can see, so now our government is working. I have listed, as far as I am concerned, the 8 legal amendments that we have already adopted and can already be enforced with your help in the National Assembly. We're the first government, as far as I know, but correct me, maybe I don't know everything that the Minister of Justice sent to Iceland that you mentioned. Our minister was now there to learn firsthand about current issues here, so that we can also use their experience, because even if our experts were there before, I don't remember being ministers, but I can say that this certainly was an extremely important move, because we can also directly use their experience here. They've never been used before, I tell you, they've told us themselves, and they're surprised at some things in the past that they haven't been done. I'm talking about the past a few years ago. As far as the prosecutors, the well-respected prosecutors, Mr. Furlan and others are concerned. Together with the Attorney General, I have invited them to an interview of an information nature, where I have expressed my view of this issue and also my expectations that now that the grounds for marriage are changing in favour of their operation, including the functioning of the courts, they may be more successful. The Minister of Justice is constantly working on these matters, working on legislative changes. We will also carefully examine your ideas, take into account them, but also our experts and all experts working within the government are studying and preparing solutions. If your solutions are consistent with them or are additionally good, we will certainly take them into account. We have still taken into account those who are necessary in this regard. I would say, however, that absolute politics, the government is doing its job, including its Members, but it is true that we now have to trust the State Prosecutor's Office, including the courts, that they will do their work even more easily and more quickly through these new institutions and so far, especially more qualitatively, because these changes allow them to do so. And this is now something that the entire public will pay attention to, and so are we. Even in the policy area, we will continue with these changes, as I have already announced. New laws, new amendments and new initiatives are coming to Parliament this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u11	Mr Jožef Horvat, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Yes, I propose to my colleagues and colleagues that we hold a debate on the answers of the Prime Minister, Dr Miroslav Cerar. Of course, it is possible to agree with his conclusions. Above all, this is the conclusion that this is a major banking crime and that we are citizens and citizens, our people have actually experienced a huge decline in living standards by patching up a bank hole, which is larger than three billion euros. And now, after three years, it is probably time for us to make it clear to people that politics, both legislative and executive and judicial branches of government, is serious about the prosecution of banking crime. If they could be Icelandic, why not Slovenians? And here, too, I expect that in this debate, which will be held at the next meeting of the National Assembly, I am sure that my procedural proposal will be supported so that, in this debate, Mr Justice Minister, who, as we have heard, will also be able to express his experience, will visit Iceland. We have, of course, corrected some things in the legislative sense. Once again, there are no effects and our people are expecting results. They're just interested in the results. They do not care what will be said in the Criminal Procedure Act, but where there are still shortcomings, such as the fact that this law still does not allow prosecutors access to bank records. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is time to sober up, all of us, and to do something for this country, for these beautiful people who are watching us and, among other things, that we have no help and then we have terrible numbers of people who are simply fleeing from Slovenia. This hurts us a lot in New Slovenia. It's time for action. However, there is not much to be done until the end of the term of office if regular elections are held. Only an effective 12 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u13	Mr Jožef Horvat, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November 2016, in the framework of the votes. Magistrate Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to ask a question to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you. The denationalisation procedures have been going on in our country for 25 years. Too long. Some time ago, the Slovenian public were upset that the State would have to pay a large amount of money for the compensation of the Roman Catholic Church due to long denationalisation procedures. This is about €60 million in damages plus interest. Sixty million euros. I'm curious, Prime Minister. Are you going to take action on this, try to find an agreement with the Roman Catholic Church, given that companies owned by the Church have dug a five hundred million-dollar hole in our banks? By the way, no one's ever been responsible for this hole, not from companies or from the Church. If the Church were responsible owner, as responsible owner of this problem, it would solve the problem itself and not impose it on the Slovenes and the Slovenes. Now, for the "i" point of those same people who had to cover their hole, they still require compensation for the non-use of property. It's not enough for her to get her property back, but she wants compensation for not using her assets. Greed — not one, as they say, of the seven sins, in fact, of the seven deadly sins. I wrote to you about this a while ago. Of course I didn't get the answer. However, I have received Mr Zoret's reply, in which, in addition to his arrogance, he has been lying heavily, namely, that my government has withdrawn reservations about denationalisation requirements and that is why the church now has the right to compensation. Yes, one such case was because in the property for which the Church was fighting, the activity could not be carried out in the way it should be, and therefore people were left without pay, without a source of survival. Apparently the Church doesn't care, but we didn't. I think it is right for the State to stand up and try to find agreement with the Roman Catholic Church on these damages at this time. However, if the agreement is not possible, it is necessary to act differently. That's why I'm asking you. What is the current situation in the area of denationalisation procedures in relation to the State - the Roman Catholic Church or the Ljubljana and Maribor Metropolitans? How much and for what purposes is the Roman Catholic Church financed by the State budget?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u15	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. December will be 25 years from the start of denationalisation procedures. It's true, it's a long time. I am also committed to this and I am working with the ministers to complete these procedures, as they are working towards a modern Slovenia that can move forward, so we must also close such wounds from the past as soon as possible. The application of the denationalisation beneficiaries is based on Article 72(2) of the Denationalisation Act, which grants the beneficiary the right to compensation for the inability to use the property, from the application of the Denationalisation Act to recovery, which means a legal decision. This means that longer than the procedure, higher compensation may be. And it is obvious that the main accounts to the state due to delays in the return of property will only be issued in the coming years. Therefore, in particular, in this regard, the denationalisation procedures need to be accelerated, otherwise the taxpayers will in fact be further damaged. These proceedings shall be conducted by the administrative unit on the one hand and by the court on the other. The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia shall, when it comes to returning in nature or to returning substitute land on the basis of legally binding administrative or judicial decisions, be merely a liability for the return of agricultural land and forests. As a result, the Fund cannot predict the extent of land recovery because certain recovery procedures are still in progress or at different stages. Only in cases where the State is a party to the denationalisation procedure is the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry in its composition, the State is represented by the State’s defence. In these cases, the total amount of compensation that church legal persons have received so far due to the inability to dispose of their assets and in which the Republic of Slovenia was liable according to the data we have, about EUR 2 million 270 000 of the required EUR 5.5 million. Today, according to the State Attorney's Office, there remain two RDC requests under the 72nd Member of the Denationalisation Act, totalling around €280,000. I would like to point out that the Republic of Slovenia does not directly finance the religious communities. In accordance with the Religious Freedom Act, the State pays a certain percentage of the contribution to pension and disability insurance to beneficiaries who work as religious servants in the RCC, which also applies to other eligible religious communities, under the same conditions. In the 2016 budget, €730 000 is allocated to all religious staff to help pay their contributions. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives of 75%, co-finances the implementation of the public archival service to the Archdiocese of the Nadskofi archive in Ljubljana, the Nadskofi archive in Maribor and the Škofi archive in Koper. In 2016, €170 000 735 is allocated for this purpose. In accordance with the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and in the field of invitations to tender, owners of cultural monuments may request co-financing of the restoration of monuments. In 2015, approximately €394,000 was used for intervention reconstruction operations in monuments owned or managed by the RCC, representing 6.9% of all funds earmarked for monuments in 2015. The data is still huge, all the data you are requesting are in the domain of the competent ministries and competent authorities, so that I propose for all these amounts to contact the Ministry of Justice to provide this information to the State Defence Office, or to the Ministry of Agriculture regarding the Agricultural Land Fund. I'd say something. Of course, it is an important argument that the damage caused to the budget and Slovenian taxpayers by the losses of Slovenian banks should also be taken into account. To this damage, as you say, half a billion euros has also been contributed by companies owned by the Roman Catholic Church. On this point, after a thorough consideration, the Government has given an opinion on the legal examination of the matter. For such a measure there is simply no basis in the current legal order. There is no way for any independent legal entity to be required to have different treatments than for other legal entities. Nor is this possible for claims and obligations of an individual legal entity. So this, I would say, initiative, whatever we call it, is simply contrary to the legal order and cannot be implemented in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u17	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u18	Yes, I will, President, follow your proposal and write a letter to all the ministries. But I understand that if you ask the President of the Government, you can get information in one place regarding the financing of the Roman Catholic Church. But it is a fact that what you have already said is that the Slovenian budget is financed by the Roman Catholic Church with great money. In my opinion, as Prime Minister of the Government, we should try to find a solution to some kind of agreement with the Roman Catholic Church on compensation. 500 million euros, 500 million euros, T2, Zvon One, Zvon Two. No one, no one, to this day, has ever been responsible for what has been done in these companies. If I understand correctly, you do not think you are doing anything about this, so please give me a clear answer below as to whether I have correctly understood your introductory reply. I certainly think that the greed of the Slovenian Roman Catholic Church must be stopped, that in some way they must be held accountable for the sins they have committed in Slovenian banks, if not through an agreement on the abolition of damages, and by amending legislation that will prevent them from further financing their activities from the state budget. Mr President, once again, I would like to ask: Do you intend to do or exactly what you intend to do about these damages? If not, simply say that you intend nothing and that the rest of the National Assembly know that the solution to this problem is on our shoulders. That you intend to settle the obvious full compensation, without any other measure, the state budget shows [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u19	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Let me first say that I do not agree with your position that citizens, as Prime Minister of the Government, should present statistics here. This is not the job of the Prime Minister. You will receive this in writing at any time, for this are written and different questions from the Member States. You'll get all the information, then you can present it to the public. I don't even have time in two, three minutes to mention a whole mountain here, three pages of statistics. So I ask for correctness in this respect. Besides, I tried to get some information out there just to introduce it. Next thing. What you now expect and demand is unconstitutional. You expect the law to intervene in the already ongoing denationalisation procedures. This is a principle that everyone knows about the prohibition of retroactive interference with procedures. You expect me, as Prime Minister of the Government, to turn to the Church by acting unlawfully. I understand that the citizens, including you, have all been affected by this bank hole. We would all like things to be carried out in the same way as they should be denationalised. Our government came into a situation when it was delayed in recent years. As I said, since the independence, these things have been falling apart, a little later on. Now we're doing the best we can. Of course we're working. Absolutely. The government is primarily trying to speed up these procedures, as I said before. Second thing, we're trying to reach a settlement through the State's Attorney's Office. Even with the Roman Catholic Church. Which I think is right for both sides to fix by settlement a small amount than could be due on a judicial basis, which will lessen the burden on the budget and taxpayers and at the same time still satisfy the law and the legal obligation the State has. By acting legally, at the same time discreetly, we listen to these amounts to reduce, negotiate, find reasonable solutions. But I cannot correct what has unfortunately been imported in recent years. However, I guarantee that in the coming months, I will also be very careful about the matter, just as I was about to complete these procedures as soon as possible. These matters need to be closed and focused on other topics more important for our future when they are closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u21	Magistrate Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor for a procedural matter to discuss the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u22	If 500 million is irrelevant, then I don't know what matters to this president and to this government. The fact is, apparently, the government intends to cover all the damages without any discussion. This shows the budget for 2017, where you increase compensation by more than €40 million. Our suggestion is that this is rather intended for the regression of pensioners. But anyway, I wasn't implying that you don't respect the law, Mr. President, but I suggested that you and the Roman Catholic Church try to find an agreement that because of your sins, your bank sins, their sins, your compensation for this waiver. But if not, as Prime Minister, you have the opportunity to act, to propose amendments to the laws forward, anything financed from the state budget. If you can't tell us what all this is, I believe you have a collection, for at least 2 million of these expenses. It is also said that this can be compensated for what the Roman Catholic Church requires of people. But I understand that you do not intend to do anything about this, so we have no choice but to wrap up our sleeves in the National Assembly and try to convince Members and Members of Parliament that it is right that someone within the Roman Catholic Church is responsible for the 500 million sins committed on the backs of the Slovenes and Slovenians. Since 500 million euros is not a minor problem for me as for the President of the Government, I propose that we discuss this matter, on this issue, in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u23	Magistrate Alenka Bratušek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November 2016, in the framework of the votes. Master Branko Grims you have the floor to ask a question to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u24	Your Honor, everyone has a very nice greeting. Whoever controls the overseers is the fundamental democratic dilemma of all countries and all democracies throughout history. If the highest democratic standards were respected in Slovenia, we could never know at the point at which we are now. Dear President of the Government, we have both been in a wider circle of people when the new democratic Slovenian Constitution came into being, so we know that it has been set up so that no part of any parallel secret legal order could ever be established and that the principles of democratic control and respect for human rights would always and everywhere be fully respected. This was the foundation of all, the starting point of all when the new Slovenian Constitution was formed. Today, however, we are witnessing that parliamentary control of the achievements through the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, as it is in most democratic countries, is the only democratic body in charge of such control. So to this body, when we asked the police for two of their acts, they gave up. It was a directive on the payment of money to potential co-workers and secret co-workers and a guidance on the use of secret methods and means. Both acts, after all that has been made clear from the words of the responsible, are of such a nature that they should no doubt already be known in advance to the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, because they are the works of the legal system under which those under our Commission supervises operate. In this case, however, we have clearly faced the challenge of assessing this subject directly related to Ornig. That's why we specifically applied for these two acts, and that was denied. Benjamin Franklin, one of the fathers of the American Constitution, once said: "He who sacrifices part of his freedom for greater security will eventually lose both. Without security and without freedom." Your Honor, Mr. President of the Government, I therefore ask you: How will you ensure consistent and unhindered compliance with the highest democratic standards of parliamentary control over the functioning of security and intelligence services, including the criminal police, so that all constitutional standards and the highest standards are met? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u25	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you for the question, Mr. Ambassador Mag. Branko Grimes. How will I ensure the standards of supervision of security and other services? By continuing the practice of this government so far, this control will be carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. Let me say that parliamentary supervision of the work of security and intelligence services is governed by a special law that you know, which accurately defines the powers and tasks of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, and I will appoint it as a commission. This Commission controls, as you know, as you also run it, the security services of the Ministry responsible for internal affairs, among others, including the internal organisational unit of the Police within the framework of the criminal police administration, which is within it. The law specifies precisely, and this is now important what measures are under control and what the supervision of this security service includes. The enforcement of the supervision of security services is also very precisely defined. This provides for the submission on a regular basis of the work programme of each supervised security service, every four months and, if necessary, beyond that period, to report on the application of the controlled measures. The law allows the Commission, i.e. your respected committee, to require more detailed explanations on the various matters, on the financial management of the funds, on the individual control measures, the oral presentation of the supervisor of the supervised service and so on. Thus, the law allows such parliamentary supervision only over explicitly listed controlled or so-called covert investigative measures and related financial operations for special purposes. And now I stress the following. The police are still and will cooperate with your commission in the future and within the framework of its legal powers. I'll keep asking myself that if there's a problem. But that's what she's been doing in a case she'd been exposed to lately, that's the Ornig case. It is important to know, however, that the police cannot transmit internal acts to your commission, including protected methods of police work. This is a criminal-intelligence activity whose long-term systemic objective is to prevent, detect and investigate crime. Judicial supervision is provided for insured police methods of work. This is not directly your commission, but judicial control, which is also the control that we all recognize in this country as legitimate in such a case. The disclosure of protected methods of police work is not covered by the legal scope of parliamentary supervision, as, as I said, the Commission can monitor only the implementation of covert investigative measures. I cannot make a concrete case of Ornig, and I do not want to comment in more detail, and last but not least, the case is still in court at the second stage, and the decision is not legally binding. But we certainly agree here, control must be carried out in accordance with the powers and to a legally defined extent. And I would like to see this case cleared up as soon as possible by a legal decision to see what really happened here, who is responsible for what. Supervisory services are generally required to cooperate with supervisory authorities in the exercise of control, which, as I said, must take account of the extent of their powers. In the future, we will absolutely support the work of all supervisory institutions, including yours, and allow them to exercise this control as effectively as possible. But the substantive distinction between controlled measures that are subject to the supervision of your respected commission and the protected methods of police work, whose disclosure is possible only at the reasoned request of the court, is an important difference. And even though there is a thin boundary, in the event of a dispute, any authority may refer itself to a court, and the court's decision is always the one that, in the end, decides which body is responsible for anything if a dispute arises here. So there's legal protection here, this is a security guard. However, I believe that this matter has been properly judged by the police that the matter is not directly in the part where they gave up, under your supervision, but under the supervision of the competent court, as I explained. However, let me say that I agree with you that nothing you have talked about must and will not remain hidden to you, to your competent commission, to the courts and other supervisory authorities, and, if necessary, to the public, to the extent permitted. I hereby conclude this answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u27	Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u28	Dear Prime Minister, I must say that I am now increasingly aware that there is a very large constitutional scandal here. When you say the police have cooperated properly, if I may tell you, the matter within the police has already been disciplined. So, they threw it under the rug, as a matter of fact. However, it was the apparent abuse of an employee by means of specific methods and means. In local terms, even some of the people sitting here today were illegally hacked into their accounts, their emails, their Facebook profile, and elsewhere, and what we could learn from the involved, with knowledge or even instructions from some of the police themselves. This, of course, is part of our framework, the esteemed President of the Government. And they would need these two rules to assess their behaviour, which means that it is an indescribable scandal and an undemocratic act to deny the commission of these two acts. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly said that it is irrelevant what is said in the title of the act. Its content is essential. And it has given two criteria by which things must even be made public. One criterion is that they concern direct use and the rights arising therefrom for public funds, for taxpayers' money, which is without a doubt in the present case. And in another case, they go beyond just a framework for regulating employee relationships, but also to intervene externally, especially when it comes to human rights. And this criterion is also fulfilled here. This is said not only to be undemocratic, but also to raise the issue of constitutionality, which is decided at the final stage. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u29	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miran Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Let me reiterate that every supervision of the Police, the Ministry of the Interior as a whole, intelligence activities and services, absolutely must be consistent, comprehensive, and that the Government has always advocated. I'll always be behind it myself. I also explained that this is a shared competence and that the protected methods of police work must be treated in a different way than controlled measures directly subject to the supervision of your commission. If there's been a disciplinary lapse in the police, of course, it's important why. If they considered that the procedure was not justified, they probably did not initiate the procedure. A lot of things are out of date because there's no procedure, because nothing's happened. But if there's been an irregularity here, it has to be absolutely exposed. That is why I am stressing and repeating, in this case the courts are responsible. Finally, the Ornig case takes place at a second stage before the competent court. If it turns out to be something that would resuscitate someone else, it will undoubtedly be investigated immediately. The police will be the first to be asked to investigate this, even in their own kind. For once for such indicators, we have no evidence, and I am waiting for these procedures to end. I'd certainly say we all have to respect the laws. We respect them, no matter what the addresses, you're right about the content. And the content here is clear. Protection in this case and in all others is that we always end up with a competent court that decides on these matters. Especially when it comes to allegations of human rights violations. In any case, this protection is guaranteed in Slovenia. If an additional procedure is initiated here, these procedures will run and we will come to the final conclusions. For once we wait for this and for other findings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u31	Master Branko Grims, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u32	Your Honor, given that the President of the Government is a constitutional lawyer, I must say that I simply do not understand this aggravation. There is already a constitutional practice in this area. When it came to a secret Israeli agreement, the Constitutional Court held that unpublished acts could not be judged because they did not exist at all. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, the question is why the Commission does not wish to hand over two documents, which no doubt fall within the scope of the case that the Commission is considering. Why is this hiding, ladies and gentlemen? What's he trying to hide? Who's he protecting? And above all, what remains of the guarantees of constitutionality and legality on the basis of which this government was elected. There's no excuse here, no document from this committee, which I'm leading, has gone public. This is said to be true of some very confidential matters, they are undoubtedly duly respected and protected by the Commission in this mandate. To say that this is a special situation or I do not know that now is the time to demand, forgive me, Prime Minister, if this is the way forward, look again at the moment at Slovenia's move on hundreds of migrants, and you have stopped the appropriate marriage proposal of your own minister and have left her alone, as well as the security of the public, and have taken responsibility for it. But now you're leaving behind constitutionality and legality, and you're a constitutional lawyer, even a professor of constitutional law, and you know what that means. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental question is whether Slovenia is still a democratic state if the only body exercising parliamentary control on behalf of the public is not allowed to do so, it is prevented from doing so properly. We have always done all this to the best of our ability. We have adopted many conclusions in full agreement. Even in a given case, when it is said to be left to someone else, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen – to whom? How should we properly assess what is appropriate, what is not appropriate? How can we carry out what this National Assembly has mandated us to do on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, if we are not allowed to look into the entire legal area of the matter, which we directly control? Here, ladies and gentlemen, control is over and democracy is over. For this reason, it is essential that the National Assembly speak about this at its meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u33	Mag. Branko Grims, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to ask a question to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. President of the Government! I'm asking you: What measures will you take that poverty among the elderly in Slovenia will not continue to increase but will start to decrease? Even now that we have recorded economic growth in the third year in a row and the outlook is promising, the material situation of the elderly and the retired is deteriorating. The reasons for this are, in a ten-year policy, inadequate in the areas of pension, social and labour security. It also ignores the potential of those who want to work after retirement under appropriate conditions. There's a lot of poor people among the elderly. Most of the poverty is among the elderly who live alone, especially among single women, with a poverty rate of twice as high as that of the general population. Under the poverty threshold, there were 78,000 pensioners in 2015, 55,000 of whom were retired women. The average age pension is now approximately the same as the poverty risk threshold. It does not seem shameful to you, Prime Minister of the Government, that there is a relatively rich Slovenia in which governments can easily throw billions of euros to remedy financial errors and afford the cheap sale of former social property created by the older generation, which is unable to work today, so many older people who cannot afford heated housing, healthy food, medicines when they are sick and also the necessary health care and care. The affluence of their social and health pressures is often left to humanitarian organisations, which is not a non-systematic and not a fair measure. The White Paper deals mainly with the determination of fiscal sustainability and forgets about people with low wages and pensions who cannot live with dignity. The White Paper’s proposals are similar to those of the past, which have led to the unsustainable material position of a large proportion of the older population and cannot solve the problem of poverty. Dear Mr. President of the Government, I ask: What will you do to restore the ratio between the average net pension and the average net salary? This ratio was only 55.4% in 2015, although the OECD recommended that it be 70%. Although the demographic fund can be an appropriate partial solution in the long term for future generations, it does not solve the problems of the elderly living in poverty today. Also unacceptable are the miserable wages of many workers with whom they cannot sustain their families with dignity. When these workers retire, their pension, even for the entire working period, is similar to a charity that cannot be survived [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u35	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you, Your Honor, Mag. Julia Bizjak Mlakar. The question is important and we are aware of this issue. Let me first say that the poverty risk rate in 2015 was 14.3% in Slovenia and fell for the first time in two years. Even compared to the members of the European Union, movements in the field of the risk of poverty in Slovenia are relatively favourable – not for all, but on average, as Slovenia is among the third members of the European Union in all these years, where the proportion of people living below the poverty risk threshold is lower than the average of the European Union. So we know the situation is not good, but it is progress, I have found out from the data, and we are also not among the worst, but among the even better within the European Union, which does not in any way bind us to further action. Poverty is declining in Slovenia as a whole, and unemployment has decreased. But it is true that these favourable trends do not apply to all groups of the population. In particular among the elderly, you mentioned single women, this rate of poverty is still higher than in the general population. We are aware of this, and that is why we are taking action. A novel of the Social Security Benefits Act is being prepared. Here, with the proposed amendments, we want to extend the range of beneficiaries to the protection allowance and thereby reduce poverty among the elderly. This proposal is already at the interdepartmental coordination in the Government and I hope it will soon reach the National Assembly. Next. The government regularly co-finances through the competent Ministry of Labour social protection programmes mainly carried out by NGOs that respond more easily and in particular to individual needs and ensure social inclusion in the form of self-help day centres and the like. The inclusion in the programmes is free of charge and the state is making money for it. In 2016, so far, EUR 800,000. The government is also already carrying out activities that will be the basis for updating the pension system. A working group was established at the competent ministry in April 2016 to prepare further adjustments to the pension system on the basis of the White Paper's origins. And here we know that based on the simulation effects calculations we need to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system and the corresponding income of age also after the previous period of the 2013 pension reform. Since the pension scheme is based on an insurance principle, the amount of the pension reflects the level of the salary and the length of the period during which contributions were paid during the active period. Here let me stress that what is particularly important for this is what is happening, thank God, the increase in employment, the opening up of new jobs, because this will be the best way to help all those who are still at or below the poverty line and all those who are living with their pensions as pensioners. If we provide quality jobs and we need economic development, economic growth, then we will be competitive, then society will also have more income and we will be able to help here. However, it is important whether an individual retires old or early. In Slovenia, individuals often retire as soon as they meet the first conditions for retirement, although their early retirement pension can therefore be permanently reduced to 18%. The lowest pensions are thus generally borne by insured persons who do not reach the age of 40 years of retirement. That is why we need to make sure that insurance workers work longer, of course, in some appropriate proportion in relation to different types of professions, and that, above all, young people will become more involved in the labour market, as we know here that we are also among the last in Europe. We have already recognised this in this mandate and are now working here also on how to make this as effective as possible. Let me also say that I am pleased that a decision was taken at the Committee's meeting on Saturday, supported by the coalition, in addition to the already envisaged reconciliation of pensions, so that pensions will increase further to 1.15%. Not much, but there is progress and a sign that the government is coordinating pensions, that it is serious. With all these measures that I have mentioned and those that will follow, we will put Slovenia on the path of a sustainable system that will not allow poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u37	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much for these explanations. I would like to say that I have asked you this question because I know the planned measures that you have listed, and I know they do not bring about a solution to the problem that I am alerting you to. In Desus, too, we keep trying to coordinate our pension regularly, and for which all governments, including yours, usually do not have enough attention. These days, Desus had to negotiate very hard with you that January's reconciliation of pensions would be around 1.15% and not just 1%, as originally planned. Nevertheless, we can see that only coordination of pensions is no longer sufficient. In order to avoid poverty among the elderly, we need different measures from those proposed so far. For example, the following measures would be appropriate: an increase in pensions to the level that would have been achieved if there had been no past freezes; a law-abiding minimum wage to survive the family, so that workers would not have slipped into poverty at the time of retirement; a law-abiding minimum pension; a gradual increase in employers' contributions to the level that workers pay for pensions; the introduction of free compulsory insurance for long-term care and the abolition of health benefits for the less-favourable, as it is unacceptable for the social state that the disease can lead to poverty; incentives for older people to work after retirement; a more effective employment policy for young people and so on. Dear Mr President of the Government: What will you do for a change, for many people of intolerable and unjust conditions, so that our citizens and citizens can live decently in their old age? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u39	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you very much. What I'm going to do as Prime Minister of the Government, I've already said in a way. He supported all the measures that go towards improving the situation in our country, reducing poverty, eliminating poverty. And I'm sorry, I'd like to repeat what you obviously don't know that in this government after many years we've started to coordinate pensions again, which we didn't before, that this government is bringing in more employment, that it's bringing everything I said before, poverty is falling again, after two years we have a lower rate again. Let me stress that if you do not know this, your party led by Mr Erjavac has supported all these measures so far, and all these coordinations have been agreed within the framework of the three coalition parties, only Desus can't make any such decisions in the government, they are also taken by SMC and SD. So you probably don't know exactly what's going on in your client, but I would suggest you look into it, because Desus was always part of a coalition that was solid in these matters. We have accepted all matters in agreement here, and this can also be confirmed by the President of your party, and I believe that the President of the Group of Members and everyone else will. I understand that you may be representing an individual opinion here that you are entitled to, but as I said, this government has a clearly-planned course. Even pensioners and all who are below the poverty line, and all those who do not have wages that are unemployed, are in our sphere of great concern, priority, so we are trying and will continue to work. As Prime Minister of the Government, I will do my utmost to address these segments of the population, but it is normal to see that society is making full progress so that the whole system is moving forward for the better. Therefore, you can be sure that we will continue in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u41	I thank the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the answers provided. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, should answer the questions of mags. Branislav Rajić, in connection with the reorganisation of the network of diplomatic and consular representations, including the countries of the African continent and Dr Mate T. Vatovec, in relation to the labelling of products from illegal settlements in Palestine, is absent today due to participation in the Foreign Affairs Council in Brussels. I ask the MP if they insist on an oral response or whether they may want a written reply from the Minister. Procedurally, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. I would have one statistical observation regarding the presence of Minister Erjavac at the meetings of the National Assembly. I went to review his presence at all the regular sessions, from the 2nd regular session, when the government started working until today, and the minister was present at 7 of the 23 meetings. I wonder whether it makes any sense to ask oral questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, since he is practically almost never there. This question, which is now on the agenda, has already been extended for the second time, I will today demand a written answer because it is unlikely that something will soon be given an oral answer. However, I would like to point out that I think that the fifth paragraph of Article 235, where the absence of a minister at the Council of State can only be justified on the basis of the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly, and today I do not think that we have this basis and I am somehow calling on you, or I ask you to try to ensure the presence of all ministers, but I think that the presence of Minister Erjavac is very keen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u43	Now I'm going to answer that question first, and then I'm going to figure out what the answers are. The Foreign Affairs Council, which is today, is certainly justified by the absence. In this respect, it is absolutely clear to me that such an event at the level of the European Union is what this institution has justified for it. Sometimes there may be other reasons, but in this case this is certainly the case. I can't talk about this whole period right now. I'm gonna check it out. I'll check first, and then I'll decide what to do about it. I can't check this moment for that long. But as far as the questions are concerned, you're asking for a written answer this time, mag. Branislav Rajić's lips. I can figure that out at this point. As a result, the Minister will then answer the first question orally at the next meeting of the assembly. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly. First of all, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Restovalšek will answer Mr Marijan Pojbič's question about compensation for damage caused by the migratory wave.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u44	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Members. First of all, I stress that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is not responsible for assessing the economic damage caused by the migration crisis. There is no legal basis for compensation for mass migration damage. The Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters defines natural and other disasters and the entire disaster protection system, but does not provide for disaster mitigation. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters defines only the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, but does not define the elimination of the consequences of other disasters or crisis situations, including the refugee crisis. I would like to point out that, in the event of a migratory wave, no crisis situation has been declared, but at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology at the end of 2015 we carried out an analysis of the damage in the most vulnerable areas in Šentilj, Gornja Radona and Brežica. The total amount of the reported loss of income in the municipality of Brežice was estimated at EUR 240 000, in the municipality of Gornja Radgona 302 000 and in the municipality of Šentilj at EUR 192 000. A total of EUR 2 million of revenue is projected to be lost in all three municipalities. The biggest damage was caused by companies belonging to the service sector due to the then difficult border crossing of service users on the other hand. The data were provided by companies on the basis of our call and are not verified or the methodology for calculating the income shortfall was determined by each company on its own. This analysis shall take place at the 68th regular meeting, on 23 December 2015, in the framework of the Report on activities carried out at the second wave of migration in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia during the period from 15. Ten to eight. 12. 2015 was also introduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not decided to compensate for the damage. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has intensified the promotion of Slovenia in border areas in the south and north with a view to establishing this cross-border service activity as quickly as possible after the end of this migration crisis. We are aware that this has not fully compensated businesses for the damage, but at least to the maximum extent possible it has mitigated it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u45	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. What I just heard from the minister, all you can do is throw up. A normal person simply cannot react differently to this exercise. He said how much damage the intended damage had been done. He said it was a shame, it happened, and he also told me who was responsible for the damage. And then at the same time, he says the government didn't decide to pay back the damage. Dear Members and Members, the coalition – what happened to you by accident? What kind of government do you have ahead of you? How the Minister hopes to come to the National Assembly and thus explain that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has caused such damage to its citizens and citizens because of its incompetence, will not repay it. Now, I ask you, Minister, whether you would have had your own company and if someone would have done you any damage that you had no influence over, whether you would have demanded compensation or not, whether you would have been entitled to this damage or not. I'm asking you. In such a case, what would you do if the client who caused you harm wrote to you that she had not decided to repay the damage to those who had been harmed? What would you do in this case? What country is this? What country do we live in? For God's sake, I really don't understand this anymore, really, Mr. Rest. I'm not saying that you're the only one responsible for this because you've clearly said that you have no say in this government, but that the government has made a different decision. You have suggested something, but you are here so much that the government must have a minister for the economy. And this is the sad truth of the current government and this coalition. And answer me, Mr. Minister – what would you do if the damage were done to your company? Please, specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u47	Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u48	Your Honor, you didn't listen to me very well. I said about the assessment and the figures that were transmitted, that the company numbers were not verified, and the injury assessment methodology itself was not harmonised. Secondly, I have said that the Ministry is within its capabilities, given that most of this damage has been done in the service sector, this means that, due to the migration crisis, this cross-border traffic in services or the use of services from our companies by citizens of the southern and northern parts of the country, in view of the three places I have been talking about, has not taken place. Therefore, as a ministry with intensive additional promotion activities in both areas, in the north and in the south, we have made at least a little relief through additional promotion in this area. So exactly we can't talk about these numbers. However, I myself visited both areas and became aware of the situation that actually, as you said, had been more affected. However, we have helped these companies, at least in the context of our opportunities, by promoting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u49	Now Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, will answer Ivan Škodnik's question regarding the title Green destination of the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u50	Mr President, Mr President! Slovenia hosted a two-day Global Green Destinations Day conference in Ljubljana on 27 September 2016, which is a central green destination event at global level, as the world's first country to receive a prestigious recognition of the green state or green destination of the world. This event featured the best practices of global green and sustainable tourism. Slovenia has joined in an integrated assessment under the criteria of Global Destinations and has reached a high point of one hundred and ninety-five points, thus becoming a model model for the whole world. We look forward to an extremely good response from tourist destinations and tourist service providers. On the basis of the Green Scheme of Slovenian Tourism prepared by the Slovenian Tourist Organization, Slovenia Green received seventeen destinations and ten accommodation providers in Slovenia. There are more destinations and accommodation providers in the evaluation process. This means that the Slovenian tourism economy has been following very well and following the trends of green tourism. Destinations and providers of tourist services are aware of the competitive advantages that the focus on sustainable tourism brings, namely, increasing visibility and reputation, increasing the number of tourists, the target groups of the higher income class, higher prices, higher revenues and added value. Nevertheless, it is not possible to ignore the fact that tourism providers care in this way for the environment and for the people living in this environment. Slovenia is recognized as a sustainable tourist destination. This without the activities of all key stakeholders in Slovenian tourism and very effective promotion would not be possible. It is crucial that these activities towards sustainable development accelerate and develop innovative tourism offer and detailed promotion. At the Ministry we have two public invitations – a call for the development of new and innovative tourism products amounting to €4.2 million in grants and a call for a public invitation to promote the introduction and implementation of environmental signs for tourism accommodation amounting to €28 000. For both of us, a sustainable component is important. In order to be able to effectively market our offer, in 2015 the Slovenian Tourist Organisation was provided with a self-sustaining operation and significantly increased its budget for operation in 2016, by 106 %. With European funds of €3.7 million, we have carried out the largest promotion campaign in the history of Slovenian tourism. Slovenian tourism proudly bears the brand I feel Slovenia and under its umbrella shows its green character. During the new strategic period, we will continue the path of sustainable tourism. Our vision is that Slovenia will become a five-star destination for green, active and healthy experiences. The basic objective will be to generate three billion euro inflows from the export of travel annually. I believe we can create them in a sustainable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u51	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister of the Environment and Space, will now answer the question of Miha Kordiš in relation to the environmental consent procedure for Ecology, the company for the collection and production of raw materials, d. o. o.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u52	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Miha Kordish, honourable Member, thank you for the question. Ecology, d. o. o., has an environmental permit issued at the location of Škofja Loka of 8. Ten. 2013 Our agency, the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, is conducting a joint administrative procedure for issuing environmental consent and environmental permits. These two permits, or the whole process, are still being resolved. Within this procedure is a requirement to increase capacity, installations to 22 tonnes of hazardous waste per day and 12 tonnes of non-hazardous waste per day. In the context of the procedure, an oral hearing was called upon at the location of the device with a view to clarifying all the facts and circumstances in that case and an oral hearing was held. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The environmental consent and environmental authorisation process itself has not yet been completed and a public disclosure of the draft environmental consent and environmental authorisation has already been carried out, under which a large number of interested individuals and the public have submitted the entry request. However, all these matters have not yet been decided. The findings from the minutes on the oral treatment and inspection of the operator Ecology, d.o.o., can be provided in writing. I have no intention of reading the conclusion from the minutes, mainly because I did not participate in the tour, I did not see these things myself, and then the cuts from such a record, which has 12 points, they have prepared so much for me, they sound very strange. With regard to the supervision of the Ecology business, d. o.o., I can also provide you with information from the inspection services which supervise this undertaking, namely, in 2014 the infringements were identified by establishing certificates of entry into the records of the waste collectors and the waste collection plan. These two documents were issued in 2012 in April. In the absence of follow-up to the decision, the enforcement procedure with cash migration was introduced and in February of this year it was found that the debtor had resolved the infringements of the rules and the inspection procedure had been suspended. This brief set of developments in some way provides information that the environmental consent or environmental authorisation has not been issued, that it is also dependent on the way and the arguments by which the individuals concerned and the public involved in this process will defend their interests. This means that their purpose is still completely open and allows for many solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u53	Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Minister has somehow formally summarized the progress of the environmental permits and the consensus on the Bulgarian Ecology, d. o. o. In doing so, however, it has been very explicit to avoid the content of this, so that I repeat the last two issues, which are particularly tanning, are also somewhat more principled in nature and less formal. The first question is: Why has a company that has been in breach of legislation for years that has treated hazardous waste without authorisation allowed business to be legalized instead of being prevented from doing so? How do you, as secretary of the department, view this practice? And then: Is it pre-emptive and well-being of the local population in a specific case? How do you define yourself as a referee and a competent minister to this case? I'm perfectly clear that the process on Ars, the issue of permits, etc., is not yet completed, but I'd rather ask that now, because, you know, the way it goes, it's too late to ring the bell. We have a hazardous waste treatment plant, under extremely suspicious safety standards everything happens, the assumption is that this company wants to make extra profits at the expense of the environmental security of Škofje Loka, the local population and so on. If there was an accident here, in fact Ecology, d.o.o., it ceases to be a bishop's story and becomes a national disaster.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u55	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you. I must say, Commissioner, that your claim that the company is operating illegally has somehow been denied by an inspection report. But if you have any evidence that the company was operating in contravention of the law, I think you know where this evidence is to be submitted. So to your comments, I told the inspection services that there was one violation, which required the undertaking to arrange a certificate of registration for the waste collector and the waste collection plan. However, in February of this year, he resolved these violations. What do I think, as Minister, about the procedures for which environmental permits are to be obtained? I think I've explained this a few times. The fact is that we have passed several regulations for the transposition of the IED Directive this year. This is the case for all companies authorised by IPPC to prepare or operate with amended new legislation. In particular, Ekologija, d.o.o., is certainly subject to all the provisions applicable to other companies. Regardless of their business results, business options are rules, legislation is taken in the sense that companies are equal before the law. But it is true that when we talk about the environment, there are many references to some financial interests. It is also true that they are financial interests. It is also true that job security is, after all, one of the tasks of our ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u57	Miha Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. The President, see, in the case of Ecology, d. o.o., the Minister held a position very similar to that of our local policy when it puts jobs with the environment at odds. So either we risk the environment for jobs, or we protect the environment, and these jobs will not be. The Socialists say it's a false dilemma. On the contrary, we need to create jobs that can work in cohabitation with the environment, which do not have problems protecting our environment, but not only in terms of nature, but also in terms of society, i.e. residents, residents in the given case from Škofja Loka. As far as illegal business is concerned. Look, the work started there in 2009, but you said yourself they only got a permit for eight. Ten. 2013 Here we have an immediate hole, four years wide, in this year the company carried out its 'business as usual', with a short whistle on the papers. You yourself have also mentioned the infringement alleged by the inspection, which is to be resolved by February of this year. We can look again at the permit received in October 2013 and then there are three years missing from 2016 when the hazardous waste treatment facility was in breach. What I want to point out here is this. I'm concerned about the consequences of an accident that can happen in Ecology, d. o. o. Not only is it because the processing of hazardous waste, however we turn, is a risky business, but it also appears that the protection of the environment against a possible accident is severely flawed. Here's a sewer that's taken directly into the sewers of a light cap and then into Soro, next to the cleaning plant, it's poured out. In the event of an accident, this internal sewage system is first poisoned, Sora is poisoned, the Sorški Field is poisoned, the cleaning plant is destroyed, which immediately raises the question of who will pay for it. It wasn't an empty rhetorical operation what I said was Ecology, d. o. o., just a schizophelic problem, and in the event of an accident it becomes a national environmental disaster. That is why I propose a debate on the Minister's response, which is clearly more of a position on the capital side than on the people's side. What will be the conclusion on Ars regarding the permit for the extension of the plant, but we must do so. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u59	Miha Kordiš, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November 2016, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to question the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, the other ministers and the Minister! My question concerns the period of August of this year when the Minister of Finance has completed the implementation of the state and municipal budget in a way that expenditure is frozen unless approved by the Ministry of Finance in particular. This means that, by means of a sub-legislative act adopted at the time, the Rules on the Completion of the Implementation of State and Municipal Budgets can easily freeze the expenditure or be subject to a special procedure, how it will actually be paid. In other words, this also means that tomorrow's and tomorrow's debate on state budgets for 2017 and 2018 does not really matter because the Minister of Finance can simply end up paying for expenditure at any time in the year. Here is the question on the ground, above all, as to whether, then, with the rule, we can actually change everything the National Assembly votes in two years and what remains of it. But today I want to know: How is this non-commitment in practice, what is happening on the expenditure side of the budget? Is there a suspension of payments because we know that we have a statutory payment deadline, which is what state institutions have? Are public procurement procedures in this regard being suspended? What is the total amount of commitments so far stopped? What is the estimate of the implementation by the end of the year? Is this also reflected in these budget documents, which we will talk about tomorrow and tomorrow? How real are these assessments? How does this affect the implementation of European projects? What is happening when we have somehow frozen funds or at least partially frozen funds in the field of European projects? What's gonna happen by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u61	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Member, thank you for the question. The Regulation on the conclusion of the year has a legal basis in Article 95 of the Public Finance Act, which provides that it should be issued by 30 September of the current year. It shall not set the earliest time limit for the adoption of such a Regulation. The Regulation was also adopted this year in accordance with the legal powers conferred on it by the Minister of Finance. The content solutions relate mainly or only to the state budget, only technical solutions and referrals to mayors, until they have to issue the rules on the end of the year of municipal budgets, also apply to them. Let me point out that the Regulation concerns taking on new obligations rather than limiting the payment of expenditure. All the obligations undertaken are also met in accordance with the statutory deadlines, i.e. in principle within 30 days, and in particularly justified cases, the Public Finance Act and the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget allow us to reduce this payment period. The Regulation itself lays down certain exceptions whereby this substantive solution restricting the taking of new obligations does not concern legal obligations, the payment of State debt obligations, payment in respect of official travel, transfers to social security funds, payment of obligations under judicial and administrative decisions, nor does it concern the payment or take-over of obligations under the European funds of purpose. In line with what I have said, I can specifically reply that there is no need for, or no retention of, payments in view of the adoption of this Regulation and its implementation. Payments shall be made within the prescribed time limits. There are also no restrictions on the execution of public contracts in cases where procedures have been initiated before or before the entry into force of this Regulation, but where new public contracts relate to the taking-over of obligations which are not exempted under the rules themselves, an exemption may be achieved if it proves necessary. The total amount of retained expenditure cannot be presented to you at this time, this would require technical monitoring of all claims, but in general we can assess that the implementation or limitation of new commitments ensures not only that the budget will be carried out in accordance with the implementation estimates that have been the basis for the preparation of the budgets 2017, 2018, but will also allow some unpredictable expenditure incurred in the last period to be covered in this context. It is essentially a legally sound measure that helps us to implement the budget in progress, which has been served by governments in the past and, as has already been said, has its legitimacy in Article 95 of the Public Finance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u63	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We don't have a total amount. I'm not saying that this measure is illegal. All I am saying is that it is illogical that the National Assembly adopts the budget every year, even 20 years ago, in the National Assembly, as we will do tomorrow and tomorrow, and then this decision is simply divorced by a rule that is a matter of a minister, a minister, not even a matter of government. That's why the work, I'll say, and even the legal arrangement, how can it be done, is questionable. This is the right thing to do, but it's not even a question, it's probably a broader debate. The second point is that we do not have actual evaluations because the Minister has also actually said that she does not have a total amount of how this is done. And we don't even have the amount of how this affects economic activity. It is true that the existing treaties should, of course, be in force. But what about the construction works? How do construction works stop here, and how do they proceed, given that we can have a roof contract and then other contracts and so on? Second question: What about European funds? We do not draw enough of European funds or draw them out because there are no projects. And those who are may also be stopped under this rule. What will happen also because of this with European funds the second year we have to give actual information this year about how much we are going to do of what we have actually done? If we do not do this properly, we will lose all European funds, and we will have to return those we have already received. I would really like to ask for a few more precise answers, a respected president and a respected minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u65	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much again, for your word. I'll do it again. European funds or commitments to draw up European funds shall be exempt from any restriction laid down by the rules on the end of the year, expressly in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation. Therefore, this Regulation has no impact on the absorption of European funds. And what you, honourable Member, are concerned that we should repay the funds here is not a drawback in terms of how much we get paid back to the state budget, but a question of how many projects are approved and how many contracts are concluded. These figures are not worrying or show that there are already signed or approved projects for 750 million at this time. Of course, this does not mean drawing in a single year, but allocation for several years. As far as economic activity is concerned. Given that it is also the government's commitment to accelerate investment investments to influence the stabilisation or acceleration of economic growth, it is also, of course, in the interest of the Ministry of Finance that we do not stop or limit the takeover of investment commitments. However, the fact is that most investment investments in construction matters, which you have also pointed out in the question, were taken over before this Regulation was adopted, and can therefore be implemented smoothly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u67	Mag. Andrej Šircelj you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I would like to discuss this response to the Minister of Finance mainly because, for the first time, we have not received all the answers to today's questions about the total amount of commitments stopped, what is the assessment of the implementation by the end of the year and how this affects the budget for 2017 and 2018. Secondly, it is really what we are talking about about European funds and that they can be exempted, but I think that the Minister knows that there are so-called integral resources, some of which can actually belong and can also relate to European funds. These integral resources can, I will say, also be taken into account in European projects. This may also result in the failure to implement European projects or in the risk of certain European projects being jeopardised or possible complications in Brussels or in the European Commission with regard to the implementation of these projects, where so-called integral resources are used. And these are for investment projects, mainly for construction investment projects. For this reason, I propose that these matters be clarified, that we actually get the net accounts, that we see how much implementation of this Regulation will affect the budget for 2017 and 2018, that we will probably later find out how real the budget 2017 is and that we will prevent any questions or issues relating to the possible return of European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u69	Master Andrej Šircelj, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November 2016 in the framework of the votes. Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is excusedly absent, and I ask you whether you want an oral or written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much, President. Since the Minister is not here to seek the truth in a pleasant or less pleasant dialogue, I will be very brief with this question and I want an oral answer next week. Thank you very much. A good week ago, some media released information about talks by the President of the Republic of Slovenia with the pope of the Roman Catholic Church. In doing so, the media refer to an anonymous source from the foreign ministry, which claims that President Pahor should literally promise to do everything in his power to reopen the question of introducing a believer in public education. In this regard, I ask: Are you aware of the content of the conversation by the President of the Republic of Slovenia and has it actually touched on the possibility of introducing a believer in school? Have you checked the reality of the allegations, in the slogans, of the high diplomatic source that appear in the media? Were the views of the President of the Republic in line with the Foreign Ministry? Does the government support the opening of talks on the introduction of a veruuch in schools? Of course I'm asking for an answer at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u71	Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance, Matthew Vraničar Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to ministers and ministers! My question is about the Economic Zones Act. I know it's been two years since this marriage was in the blue, but I would have focused essentially on this part of the law, which also had a certain impact on Luca Koper, in that it was possible to evolve in some way. However, there were also certain restrictions that were strict, and if you did not comply, you could lose that rating or benefit that they are. In all this, I am particularly interested in the thinking of the Ministry of Finance: Why is this law not extended or reconsidered, since in my opinion this represents an additional benefit for some potential investors, and to attract someone, usually these economic zones are made? I also want to know: Have any assessments or analyses been made in this regard? But it is about looking at some expansion of the possibilities of some new jobs, some multipliers and in the final phase, if you want, even one, in the notes, filling the rail freight on this new future track. When we look at some further development and expansion of these individual areas themselves, if I'm also specifically talking about Luka Koper, I'm curious: Is there any option for these areas to be specifically defined? Last but not least, we still have a fresh one here, but a new proposal for a law on strategic investments of the state importance of Hotch-Slovnica can be well thought out in this context. It is said that even for that part, I may be wrong to think or mix these two things up, but I think it makes sense to think about this law on economic zones, some possible development for Slovenia's potential economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The Economic Zones Act brings together two concepts. On the one hand, these are areas which, in accordance with European customs legislation, constitute free customs zones and are subject to specific customs rules and specific rules on indirect taxation, mainly in terms of VAT and excise duties. The second concept or second part of the solutions brought by the Economic Zones Act, which are specific to the Economic Zones Act, are reliefs in the area of corporate income tax. It was possible to reduce the tax rate and the possibility of increased investment and employment relief. The Economic Zones Act was adopted in situations where we had a high nominal rate of corporate income tax, first 25%, then 20%, and relatively low tax relief or not low, lower than the current investment incentives and R & D investments and relatively low employment incentives. This approach to create specific areas in which special tax regimes apply applies mainly in environments with a highly rigid tax system. We cannot claim this for the current Slovenian tax system. The nominal rate of corporate income tax is competitive, even more competitive is the effective rate of corporate income tax compared to other countries of very favourable incentives for investment and investment in research and development. In such a tax environment, which is conducive to the economy as a whole, it is virtually impossible to make a special tax regime that is still in line with European rules or the principles of corporate taxation, while at the same time attractive enough to encourage companies to invest precisely in these zones and not to invest in Slovenia in general. The Ministry of Finance therefore favours the competitive general conditions of corporate taxation rather than segmenting or setting specific conditions for individual areas. We have deviated from this principle in the context of investments in less developed areas in accordance with the Law on the Promotion of more coherent economic development. That we did not propose an extension of the Economic Zones Act, we were led primarily by results. Of the 55 companies that could benefit from special tax advantages in the only economic zone that existed in Slovenia, only one legal person took advantage of them. During the whole period from 2006 to 2013, this tax advantage amounted to a reduction of tax liabilities totalling EUR 9 million in all years, with no effect or any lower tax liability from 2009 onwards. For this reason, there is simply no economic reason for the continuation of such a measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferruga, are you requesting a supplement? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President for your word. Dear ministers, ministers, colleagues and coworkers have a nice greeting! Not only for Posavje but probably for the whole of Slovenia, the project of construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava is one of the very important projects. If we read old clips, we see that the hydroelectric power plant or the entire chain should be finally built by 2015. Today we are already at the end of 2016, and we also have some open questions in the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, and all the questions raised are still in the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. When we received a certain part of the funds for the completion of the infrastructure work at Brežica hydropower plant last year, I first proposed an amendment to the 2016 budget, and then my colleague Zorčič from the SMC participated very actively in this area in order to keep things at least temporarily moving. But the fact is, every month we lose because of the failure to complete the hydropower plant at the bottom of Savi, we get problems. That's how we get lost, because the country doesn't get back what it gets when it builds hydro power plants. Last but not least, during this time, people in the municipality of Brežice ask themselves whether a natural disaster will affect them also because they will not be completely built on the lower Sava hydropower plant. Dear Minister! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia ordered your Ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure, to prepare a financial construction by the end of 2016, i.e. the structure of financial resources for the completion of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava or for the hydroelectric power plant Mokrice. I have some questions and I hope for specific answers. First: Does your ministry intend to implement the Government's decision and familiarize the Government with the structure of financial resources for the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant? Second: What is the financial obligation of the candidate of the government or your Ministry of Hydroelectric Power? Third time, and that's what I think is crucial: Why is there no planned funding for the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant in the 2017 and 2018 budgets? And the last question: When will the Mokrice hydropower plant start building? Concendent, that is, the Government must first buy back land under the applicable law and concession contract, which we all know is the basis for the start of construction. I'm asking for very specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u78	Dear President! Mr Tomaž Lisec, honourable Member, thank you for the question. The chain of construction of hydroelectric power plants at the bottom of Savi includes the construction of five hydroelectric plants. At the Bosniak hydroelectric power plant, which is already in operation, the value of the investment was EUR 30 million. But all I'm talking about is an investment that involves building up an accumulation dam. At Orto-Blanca hydroelectric power plant and Krško was also an investment to build the accumulation dam and some parts of the infrastructure about €45 million. These two investments are gradually winding down. As you yourself have already said, in intensive construction, the construction of the accumulation dam at Brežica hydroelectric power plant, whose investment value, which was confirmed in the Government in 2013, has actually reached more than three investments by then. It's 157 million euros. INFRA is responsible for managing the construction of the accompanying infrastructure. We also received assurances from them that they are in the final stage with their parts in the accumulation pool, so that the concessionaire HESS, d.o.o., could start testing equipment on the dam building in the following month, as the pool is built to this extent and also precipitation or heavy rain at the beginning of the month makes it possible to fill this dam. For the last hydroelectric power plant in the chain, which is the construction of the accumulation dam of HE Mokrič, the process of obtaining environmental consent is currently under way and a cross-border procedure with the Republic of Croatia is also under way. The concessionaire also conducts procedures to obtain the necessary documentation that will affect future construction. Following completed procedures and, if appropriate, the procedure for obtaining documentation and authorisations will be initiated. This means that, at this point, there is not yet a precise timetable, nor is there a result of the coordinated resources and funding dynamics set out in the financial programme of infrastructure arrangements, but at the level of the Republic of Slovenia. And if we talk about when the decision will be made. The decision taken by the Government in 2014 and imposed, as you yourself have already stated, by the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Minister of Infrastructure to prepare this funding dynamic cannot be implemented by the end of this year, because the data or consent and documentation are not ready for the stage when the investment programme can be prepared. Therefore, there is no fixed amount of the concessional contribution and therefore this investment is not included in the 2017 and 2018 budget. When will it be easy? Once the conditions are met, the Minister of Infrastructure and I will prepare or mediate this decision. It is true that this is one of the government's unrealized conclusions. It is difficult to speak today because this needs to be prepared for the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, if you please, request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you, Your Honor. I guess we both know the project hasn't been done since yesterday. Not the entire chain, but at least the construction of the Mokrica hydroelectric power plant. And that the Slovenian public will know which places we are talking about, the respected minister, is Bošt ñj and not Bnieszczany, is not Orto-Blanca, but is Arto-Blanca and not Mokrič, but Mokrice. These are places in Posav, which should also be known in a wider Slovenian scale, as this is currently the largest infrastructure project. Dear Minister, in the past we had special laws that unfortunately extended. We had proposals for amendments to the budgets. We had, in particular, a lot of engagements, including colleague Zorčič on this side. Now we're at a point where there's no environmental consensus. Dear Minister, you said yourself, we have been doing this since 2013. But once again, we all know, there is financial damage by extending the operation of hydropower plants on the lower Savi and environmental damage also arises. In previous years, we have had cases where a small part of the rain has taken place in the construction of infrastructure work at the Brežica hydroelectric power plants, and the same is happening downstream. In short, today, when we should have all the data, when and in what way and who will do both energy and infrastructure work at the Mokrice hydropower plants, your answer is, we need environmental consensus. But, Madam Secretary, you are the Minister of the Environment. If I asked the Minister of Culture, I would understand such an answer. I ask the Minister of the Environment: When and in what way can we obtain an environmental consensus that will be the basis for all further work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u81	Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u82	Dear Member, Mr Tomaž Lisec, I am pleased that, like at least at the beginning of my arrival in Ljubljana, you are also teaching me excuses. And that's even more interesting because when I say Posavia myself, everyone tells me that it's not Posavia, that it's actually Styria. It's really nice and I sincerely thank you for your contribution. It is also true that the concession contract was concluded in 2002 and that since 2002, when the concession contract was concluded, this ministry has led several governments or several ministers. And it is true that a law has been passed for the construction of or under the terms of a concession to exploit the energy potential of the Lower Sava and it would be more than welcome if all of this were already built and completed. It is true, however, that when I took over the Ministry myself, even for the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, no financial resources were provided, that not only on my behalf but also on behalf of the whole government, it was necessary to make a strong effort to secure financial resources and to determine, in accordance with the concession contract, the tasks of the concessionaire, the tasks of the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u84	Of course, Vice President. I think it is right that at the next meeting we are talking about this project, which is not only important for Posavje, but also for energy, if you also want financial and not least environmental work, but is the only bigger project that this Government is carrying out at national level. Let us leave the promises of building a hydroelectric power plant and a third development axis, which are only on paper once again, but here we have something to show and see, and it is crucial because we have a lot of problems and unanswered questions. Yes, Madam Minister, I know you're not responsible for everything back in 2002, but we all know that the Bosniak Hydropower Plant and the Arto-Blanca hydropower plant were built in the right timetable. In the hydroelectric power plant Krško has already been slightly sprayed, even at the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, it would have been even more sprayed after 2013, if one of the last laws in the previous term was not one of the so-called Visak Laws, which really extended matters a little longer, but at least began to implement. And since today the Minister of the Environment is voicing an environmental consensus, it is self-explanatory because she has not done her homework or your officials, if we are accurate, but probably one and the same, at least not only for this government, probably for a few years earlier, who are probably getting a solid salary, but they are getting it for their misdeeds. And so, Mr Vice-President, I want one substantive debate to take place in Posavia to get answers, when the environmental consensus, what the financial structure will be, who will pay for this financial structure, and if we are talking about both the energy work and the infrastructure work, so that you will not end up saying, the state has given it, and in fact the state has given it to the Posavina largest company, to put it into the state budget and then to brag about what the state has given. In short, you took Posavje, and then you bragged about how you gave money to complete the hydroelectric Brežice. And I'm afraid such a story will continue at the Mokrica hydropower plant. Once the country sleeps slowly, we will lose a huge opportunity by completing the hydro power plants at the bottom of the Sava. And let's not forget the environmental part that can be a sad story if you don't get to the Ministry a little faster to work things out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on 17 November as part of Thursday's vote. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u86	Madam Minister, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues, respected by both ministers! In accordance with the Patient Rights Act, the patient has the right to obtain a so-called second opinion. I want to know: How can this right be exercised in the case of specialist activities for child heart surgery? How exactly do our tertiary public office travel patients? How are all these procedures going? In doing so, let me remind you of the events about Neža's baby girl, and also of the expectations of different decisions, faster decisions, it is said that the girl will finally receive appropriate treatment where her parents want it, that is, abroad, if there is so much trust lost here. But I want to know what it's really like to look for a second opinion. It seems simple to us, or such an impression is also made in public, to be very quickly complicated in this case when we are looking for another opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u88	Mr Vice-President, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, thank you for the question. Colleagues, colleagues, honourable Members! The right to second opinion is one of 14 universal patients' rights set out in the Patient Rights Act. The patient has the right to receive a second opinion, as a self-payer at any time, whenever he wishes within the public network, and only for secondary and tertiary treatment only, at most once for the assessment of the same medical condition. In this case, the costs of the second opinion shall be included in the compulsory health insurance and the right shall be guaranteed as part of the treatment in which the patient requests a second opinion. Nor does it require a guide to obtain a second opinion. The right to second opinion must be obtained within a reasonable period of time, which is at a time not exceeding the period still acceptable in view of the objective medical assessment of the patient’s clinical needs in view of his medical condition, his/her history, the likely development of the disease, the degree of pain or the nature of the injury at the time of exercise of this right. If the patient wishes to exercise the right to a second opinion, the patient and the doctor who is being treated must, in accordance with the legal provisions, first conduct a thorough discussion on the reasons, purpose and needs to obtain a second opinion on the basis of which the patient will judge whether this right to a second opinion will actually be exercised. The second opinion should be provided by the operator in whom the patient is being treated. If the operator cannot guarantee this right, the exercise of the right shall be granted to the patient by another health service provider within a public health network providing all necessary medical documentation. The second opinion shall be given by the physician of the relevant specialities or consulates of the same or other healthcare provider, which, due to objectivity or impartiality, shall not be the same person who has been or will be directly involved in the treatment process of this patient. The right to second opinion in the case of child heart surgery in the context of UKC Ljubljana is therefore exercised in the case of a request by providing a physician with appropriate specialities within the framework of UKC Ljubljana, if this is not possible, either for reasons of impartiality or due to the lack of appropriate specialists, and for another operator in the framework of the public network. The right to second opinion in the case of treatment of a child is exercised through parents, usually with the consent of both parents, who usually decide on it in agreement or through guardians. In practice, the patient’s doctor usually wishes to obtain a second opinion, informs the head of the clinic or department in which the patient is being treated, and this decision is made by the doctor who will draw up a second opinion on the basic documentation. Data on how or where an individual operator provides a second opinion in specific cases are not collected at the Ministry of Health and, of course, we do not have data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Good. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, ministers, ministers! My question this time will not be directly linked to Maribor, but it will also be a little wider, of course, indirectly to Maribor and Mariborians. We are talking about deregulation of the prices of oil derivatives, or on the question of parliament, Minister, I am referring to the letter meeting of the Government, where you are 7. 11. Adopt a Regulation on the pricing of certain oil derivatives on the basis of which those two petrols, namely the most sold 95-octane and oil, are no longer regulated by new petrol services on motorways and on fast roads, but become freely shaped by the god given. With this deregulation, of course, I have some things to say. We had a mother's working body about ten days ago, i.e. the Committee on the Economy, where we dealt with this issue. At that time, it was clear and loudly stated that by deregulation of these two oil derivatives or 95-octane and oil, we would have waited a little longer to decide that we would be on your side earlier, on the ministerial side, so it was said, first to see an analysis of what the current deregulation of the oil derivatives that we had previously released meant and what we could expect in the future on the basis of this analysis. Of course, as a result, what financial consequences can be expected both for the economy and for individuals living in Slovenia and, of course, how this regulation will affect competition between suppliers and what impact, as stated, will be for further information on oil derivatives prices. I would like to say this in this initial phase or in this Member's question that I have never personally opposed any deregulation, the release of such measures. I know that in response you will offer me that Slovenia is one of the few countries that has, or has had, this practice, but I would like here to decide on the basis of analysis, based on data, what is most useful for citizens and citizens, especially for the economy of which you are the relevant minister, by taking all stakeholders into account. Among other things, the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia, nicely put to this measure, is very reserved because it estimates that such price release could mean between 10 and 15 per cent price rises, and we know what this means for the economy itself. Maybe that's it in the first place.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Zdravko Restoršek, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u92	Dear President! Mr. Ambassador, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Thank you for your question: What is the analysis of the first deregulation that has been in force since April this year, and why has it not waited until the final analysis? The analysis of the first partial deregulation so far shows that there has been a minimal increase in prices at 98 and more octane gasoline, with the final price of petrol rising by just over 1% from price liberalisation. However, the analysis of the prices of combustion oil shows that the actual market price was even lower for a certain period than the price that would have been valid on the market if it had continued to be regulated. However, when the actual market price was higher than the regulated price, the price was higher only by a good percentage, as it was by 98 Octan. Why wasn't it waiting for a final analysis? First of all, I must say that the second step of deregulation we have taken is that deregulation on motorways represents only slightly less than 25% of the entire market for oil derivatives in Slovenia, says still more than three quarters of the trade in oil derivatives remains regulated. Another time. We did not wait for the final analysis because of the simple fact that 100- and more octane petrol and fuel oil are not the perfect substitute for the other two types of fuel, i.e. 95-octanic and diesel fuel. In any case, this first step, it is said, 98 and the fuel oil did not present any danger because there is nothing important to be done there, what the analysis itself shows from April to October. Individual fuels have completely different elasticities of demand, which means that they react differently to the price change, making it impossible and even wrong to conclude that the deregulation of the prices of the other two types of fuels, namely 95-octane gasoline and diesel, will have the same consequences as deregulation of 100- and more octane petrol and fuel oil. Next question. What will be the financial implications of the new state budget regulation and how will we compensate for the shortfall? The financial implications, the introduction of a new regulation to the state budget based on an analysis we have done together with the Ministry of Finance, which was made on the assumption of the so-called worst possible scenario, we estimate that there could be a drop of 200 000 euros in this year and that there could be a decrease of one million euros in the first half of 2017. I'm still talking about the second step of deregulation on highways. However, I stress that such a drop occurs only at the assumption of 100 % of the margin increase, which we believe will not materially occur and the resulting budget deficit will be reduced accordingly. How will the funds be recovered? We believe that it is premature to talk about the loss of funds, as the analysis has been made on certain assumptions and has only demonstrated the possible consequences of the liberalisation of prices on budgetary revenues. What exactly will be the actual impact of deregulation of oil derivatives prices will have to wait and see what it will bring. Following the introduction of deregulation of oil derivatives prices, there was no significant price increase and prices are therefore moving in line with forecasts and expectations. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, how will the new regulation affect competition between suppliers and what will be the impact on the further formation of oil derivatives prices? We believe that the new regulation will have a positive impact on competitiveness as the removal of regulated prices will lead to an increase in heterogeneous prices, we expect prices on motorways to be lower, while prices in cities and at borders will be lower due to competition. The effect of the regulation on price formation? The release of price control measures for oil derivatives will, after our long-term efforts, contribute to greater competition in the oil derivatives market, resulting in greater price competition between suppliers, which will also benefit consumers, as prices will be the same or lower than they have been before. The aim of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is to establish a normal functioning market where market mechanisms and competition between oil derivatives distributors can be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl, you're requesting a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u94	Yes, thank you very much for the answer, for the explanations you gave me from the analysis that obviously exists. Of course, in the decisions that we make in the National Assembly, in the positions that we then stand and do not change them from minute to minute, very fine analysis of such a previously seen and all possible scenarios, from those bad scenarios to those good ones, I speak good scripts in terms of more resources in the budget and in particular what is in favour of citizens and citizens. Minister, I have to warn you here that I am expecting this, and I really expect that in the Desus Group as well, that you are keeping a close eye on how these prices on the highways will form, already this assumption that you expect prices to rise slightly on the highway or on the highway system and fast roads, of course with some optimism they will not give me, but that they will go down the price outside the highway. Because it's hard for me to imagine both transit and all those who drive a day or a week on highways, so we can run down the highway so we can put our vehicles somewhere cheaper. Nor does it seem to me that we are going abroad, that is, across the border where we have this possibility and that we place our vehicles there, because with this country, of course, the budget is losing the much-needed financial resources. And maybe this, all of these assumptions are probably made on the assumption that this is a market where there are more instigators, while with us, we all know that there is practically a duopol where there are huge shares or huge percentages of two triggers of petrol or petroleum derivatives. Again, I will also conclude with this, of course, from you, so from the Ministry, I expect a vigilant awakening on this and if it turns out that the step has not been sufficiently thoughtful, good, but a step back for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u96	Once again, I must say that we are talking about a quarter or less of the deregulation of the oil derivatives market. The margin level has a small impact on the final price of fuel. The margins represent only 6% of the total fuel price structure, while the excise duty represents 40% of the price and 20% of the fuel oil. In the event of an overpriced price hike, oil traders would lose not only domestic but also transit passengers, which means that they would not only sell less fuel, but in particular lose a large share of profits on additional assortment – alcohol, cigarettes, sandwiches, where they have much more margins and create more profits than fuel sales. That's why they want as many customers as possible on gas stations. Domestic consumers will have the option of filling fuel on petrol pumps outside the highway crossing if they overprice. Priced insensitive fuel will continue to flow on petrol pumps along highways, so it will not affect the budget. We believe, however, that oil traders will not be overpriced, so that there will not be a greater decline in the quantities sold and there will be no greater impact on the budget if traders raise prices above prices abroad and this would result in the move of customers abroad, transit and thus the reduction of contractual quantities. There is something else to say, however, that all these strong, large diesel buyers, carriers already have specific fuel price contracts and are not as thin as we small consumers. Secondly, the price of gas on the motorway cross should also be seen from this point of view, although we have only three suppliers at our Slovenian highway cross, according to this regulation, we would have different prices at one and the same provider, because they will make differences. Today we are used to having all the fuel throughout Slovenia, at all petrol pumps with the same price. However, the analysis of the situation in the northern and southern neighbours shows exactly what I have said, that for different providers and also for the same providers at different locations, in different time periods, there are different prices. We will monitor these prices, we believe the market will work. After all, we have that last security guard that I believe we will not use, and that is to return the whole system to an old, regulated way that has been going on since 2002, and this law also says that this regulation is only temporary, for a period of up to one year, and we have been dragging it for 14 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already introduced the Social Security Benefits Act twice, which has been rejected by the coalition on both occasions. The last refusal at the previous meeting of the National Assembly was justified by the Government and the Coalition by the following words: “The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already committed itself by means of a coalition contract to relieve beneficiaries of a property-owned security allowance of less value.” Ms Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry, also said at the meeting of the National Assembly, quote: "On the basis of a coalition commitment at the Ministry of Labour, we prepared a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Social Security Benefits, which was in public debate until yesterday, that is to say until 19. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with the Coalition Treaty, the law proposes the deletion of the register institution of property owned by the beneficiary of monetary social assistance or a protective allowance. Because of the specific situation in Slovenia, which has been shown to be characterised by a high proportion of housing and housing, we propose a special margin of property censorship of EUR 12 000." End of quote. Minister, on September 14, you said to STA: “There are still many cases in the field where individuals, especially older ones, are giving up a protective allowance due to their attachment to real estate. The number of recipients of the protective allowance fell from 46 000 700 to about 10 000 from the 2012 legislative amendments. The 2014 changes in this area have had little effect.” So 36 thousand 700 people have decided less to receive a protective supplement precisely because of this law, which you, as Secretary of State and Minister, have adopted together. Thank God, at least one good quality, that after that time you also realized that you've made a big mistake, a strategic big mistake, and of course now you're trying to fix it, which I think is nothing wrong or right, it was wrong what you did when you adopted this law. It's a good thing you're fixing this now. And you're on POP TV 15. 2. 2016 told Jani Muhič when he asked you when the law should enter into force: “Yes, the law must be adopted in the National Assembly, we have a public debate, then the National Assembly, so I hope it will enter into force with 1. 1. 2017.’ And that's why I'm asking you: When will marriage come to the National Assembly? Will the changes follow the resolution of this very pressing issue, which I have just talked about briefly, in its entirety? What procedure is he going to be put into? When can we expect the law to enter into force? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Thank you, Your Honor, for the question. Some of the dates were correctly mentioned, i.e. on 19 September the law was put into public debate, the public debate in accordance with the Resolution on Regulatory Activities was one month, i.e. on 19 October it ended, and now the law, as in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Government, is in interdepartmental coordination. In particular, we are coordinating with the Ministry of Justice, because it is a matter of provisions that courts, under their official duties, will withdraw past records and there is a need to agree on a way so that the objective is 24. 11. The law in the Government and we also agree on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly if it is possible that, in accordance with the assistance of the Chairman of the Committee, he believes that the College of Presidents of the National Assembly will also be considered at the December meeting following a reduced procedure. And if all of this happens, it means it's going to be 1. 1. Just as the wish has been, the matter has been accepted and will enter into force. As far as the solutions are concerned, some have been said, but it's probably a lapsus, you mentioned that property worth 12 thousand, not 120 thousand, you probably said wrong, and for people it's important data. In short, there are three very important innovations in this marriage. The first is that the property records that have been available since 2012 will also be withdrawn. This is what the court will do on an official basis and it is necessary to agree with the contractors in what way to make this the easiest to take place, so that the withdrawal of the marks will no longer take place. Another important change is to take into account, in a different way, the property of applicants for cash social assistance and a social security allowance, because it is no longer possible in our legislation to separate money social assistance and a social security allowance because they have both a similar nature and are intended for the materially disadvantaged by the transfer from STIZ to the social security system. The difference between them is only in the amount of censorship. Monetary social assistance is a short-term benefit, so it amounts to around €290 and the security allowance has a price of €470. So, for example, we have a situation where older people can be entitled to both monetary and social assistance, and they receive a security allowance of up to €470 between the DSP and the protection allowance. This will apply to all of these two benefits in this law, namely that they may be entitled to financial assistance and a security allowance for individuals and families with incomes, but the price does not change here, and at the same time they are the owners of the movable property they live in. The condition is that there is a permanent residence of up to €120,000. If they are, they are entitled to financial social assistance and a security allowance and for them, no recovery of the aid received, both monetary and security aid, will be made after the new. But back to back, people need to be told, because there are a lot of questions, it is not possible to reverse change because it is necessary to know that some people have paid money for social assistance or a social security allowance. And if we were to turn retrograde backwards now, that would mean putting people in an unequal position. So that new recipients will be subject to cash and social assistance and a protection allowance following a new with 1. 1. when they ask. Back, of course, it's not possible. All that's been removed is a back-circuit. This means that they will be free to dispose of the property. I'm looking at Mr. Pojbich because he looks at me in amazement. There's no other way. We've dealt with this a lot. It is not possible to accept this purely legal view, so that this duty can be blotted out in return. But what's important is that, because we've given 120 grand, there's probably going to be a lot going to happen at the time of the adoption of the law on this element, why 120 grand. We have this number, and in the public debate too, we have not received a comment to this effect in the sense that it would be higher or lower the value itself, based on the average value of GURS, which is for Slovenia. On the whole of Slovenia, the GURS average value is EUR 118 000 and then we rounded to 120 000, so we came to this value. However, I believe that at the time of the adoption of the law, we will discuss these numbers and why this value and other elements will be discussed when we come up with a final solution, which you will also confirm.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you are requesting a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I got some answers, but now I'm surprised that the records will be back off the property. Those who haven't paid anything back now have a record. And if the sign goes off, then they don't owe anything if the tag goes off. Isn't that right? Oh, well, that'll have to be cleared up, that's a very important thing. So, one thing. The second thing that seems important to me is whether there will be a debate among the coalition partners when it comes to the 120 000 euro ceiling. As far as I have information, there is still a debate on this. The third thing that bothers me, however, is the problem that I've traced almost every answer you have to, among other things, if that happens, if that happens, if that happens. I don't have the right feeling, and I didn't get that exact answer to the question of whether he's going to be with 1. 1. 2017 has entered into force. This was a specific and explicit question for me. And also, among other things, as I said before, in the coalition contract, you have committed yourself to burdening the beneficiaries of a lower-value security allowance with the prohibitions on the disposal of property. It is now practically the third year of this term. And I'm hearing it from you again. I hope the matter stands and holds and will be with 1. 1. 2017 The law entered into force. Because I have to say that I have also spoken with the Members of Desus, and here they are also getting nervous because I have such a feeling that this matter is not going in the right direction in order to hold on to some of the hands you yourself have said. I hope that this will not be the case, but we will, of course, also clarify the absolute question I was talking about earlier if the label for those who already have the tag is withdrawn, what this means for that person at a given time. That seems an extremely important question to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thanks for the update. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you know very well who the authority is. As Minister of Labour to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia approves or does not act as a collective body and Members of the National Assembly. So these are the powers. So my cha-ci are within my jurisdiction because I believe that we would like to be absolutes and that we can do things, but I think it is right that we respect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. As I said, so I hold and do everything in my power to make it as I said. But with regard to the record, the institutes need to be separated. The registration shall mean only the security of the ownership right. And we are withdrawing this and the labels will no longer be available, and they will be able to back off, which will mean for all of these people who at this moment have the marking that they will be free to have this property, so they will be free to have it back, so today, if I am a recipient of a security supplement and have a record, it will be withdrawn, and that means that I can sell this property without any problems, but of course it must be viewed within the framework of the law. But if I have the property in the end and I get to 1. 1. 2017, when the new law came into force, I obtained benefits from the protective DSP, where during the period when I was granted the receipt of the financial assistance and the security allowance and was subject to the law, as is the case today, where my heirs to pay the state, I will, of course, if I still have the property, have to do so, for that period until the adoption of the new law still applies. So the rules on the law of succession for those who will receive the DS and the protective allowance for that period shall apply. This existing law has not been possible in a legal and legal way, since some people have already returned the amount of cash assistance received and the security allowance in this interim period and would put these categories in a materially unequal position. This was a problem, and there was a great deal of talk with the Ministry of Professional Services and the Legal Service about how and how to solve it. So, it is necessary and right to tell people, I am always in place to tell people that they will be able to have, but the new rules will continue to apply, and so the recipients of the financial assistance and the welfare allowance will be, once the law is passed, I believe that it will be with 1. 1. already stated that they will be able to apply for financial social assistance and a security allowance without refunds. But it's also an object within the coordination coalition, of course, as it is, it's an internal matter of the coalition's functioning.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished Minister is most welcome. The reorganisation of social work centres has been discussed for quite some time, for several years now, I will say that for a very long time, or a proposal. However, the consequences of this inappropriate current situation are reflected in such tragic events that have taken place in recent months or years, which we have witnessed and, more recently, also in the National Assembly. I have asked you a question over the summer, which you have also given an answer to, but unfortunately I am not satisfied with it, because I did not get what I wanted or specific answers. Let me remind you that in 2013, on 15 May, when you met with the representatives of the Community of Centres for Social Work, you yourself made a statement to the public where you first said that the pilot project of the reorganisation would start in the second half of 2013 and the second time that the reorganisation of social work centres would take place in early 2015. We are in fact already at the end of 2016 and unfortunately nothing has happened in this area, at least we have no concrete solution yet. In response to this question, you have indicated that you have been planning to reorganise social work centres at the Ministry for a long time. I really care about this word because it gives me the feeling that after almost four years at the Ministry you are still just planning to reorganise, but I believe it is a bit inappropriate and it is not. You have also responded in a way that no pilot project has yet been carried out in the context of the activities so that different working groups, the results and results of which serve to reorganise the centres, have worked. And specifically, on the question of when the reorganisation will be completed, you have concluded that it is taking place in three segments, which you have also mentioned, of course, and that it will really be completed when all these three segments become a stable part of the system. Dear Minister, I am interested in a little more specifically: What month and what year can we expect the completion of the necessary reorganisation of social work centres? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you for asking. The reorganisation, as you probably imagine, may seem simple, that is, 62 social work centres are organized, reorganised and set up different areas, units. To this end, new premises, new all statutes, need to be agreed where there will be any redeployment of employees, a completely new information system needs to be agreed; today there are 62 centres for social work and each has its own information system, have its own mail, all of this needs to be regulated. Thus, as far as reorganisation is concerned, that is to say, this organisational, modified chart of more closely interlinked procedures, statutory changes, staff changes, at the same time, changes in premises and information on newly established units are being carried out. It's a complex matter. Above all, in this period with all regional units and with social work centres, we have re-elected the directors, because, of course, it is crucial that these changes are as widely accepted as possible. In addition to the change of organisation, which is only one aspect of the change in the functioning of social work centres, two important, interlinked processes are under way, namely the introduction of social activation, a programme based on European funds, under which social work centres will operate. That's a big bite. At this point in the SVRK, we now confirm the representative project, which will be implemented in the following year, and all programmes will be announced there in the middle of the year. The first social work centres will have tools to reduce these reasons for long-term recipients of financial social assistance in order to be excluded from the labour market. That's a second very big bite. And the third, a little bit bigger, is a complete overhaul of the information system, where we introduce an information decision, so that the recipients of the ZUPJS – the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds will receive this information decision annually after they first say they agree to receive an information decision at home, following the DURS example. Not only will I not say this, but there are many discussions, because the entire ICSD information system is needed, that is, the site on which the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds operates, is six times more complex information than the PSIZ through which pensions are paid, and is so vulnerable that any change must be weighed very much. If anyone, I would like to make rapid changes in this area, because believe me, not only because of your questions, as Minister, I am absolutely aware of the priorities and I can ensure that we are doing everything we can to get things done as quickly as possible, so we now have external assistance, because simply with such complex changes, perhaps my colleague – actually a greater change has been made in the past only in administrative units, but significantly smaller than the change in social work centres, and it is a truly complex and mutually interdependent project. It is, however, with the Social Protection Act, which will be held in public debate, oris how social work centres operate. However, it will be very soon before you, the Social Protection Act, which will set up this structure, that social work centres will operate at the regional level, that there will also be a central unit of social work centres, which will have certain clear competences to help coordinate the remaining social work centres, but will be at the same level and operate through exposures, which means that, in terms of accessibility and employees, the law will not change significantly, but will soon change in the public debate. If I tell you here, why isn't there a pilot? This is not why the pilots did not, because they were first, but I will tell you the truth, lawyers spent six months talking and saying that it is possible without a change of law and local jurisdiction when it was necessary to do so, but they said that this is not possible. Unfortunately, I would like to, but in fact, the law needs to be changed, but if the law is changing, it's only right that we talk and get things done the way it is, without a pilot, but the clock is still the way it is. Social activation is already going to the SVRK, it's confirmed, it's going to start working again next year. By September 2015, the Decision is to be issued on a test basis. Reorganisation – it is supposed to be adopted and then it will go gradually. So, during the term of office of this government, there will be a reorganisation, a comprehensive reorganisation. When it'll be over because you asked. A Very Hard Answer [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u109	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, do you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your answer. I believe it's an extremely demanding project and believe me, I know what one reorganisation is after itself. I don't know things about ministries, but I know them better in the private sector, so I'm aware that this is not a project you're pulling out of today. Plus, it's an exception, I'll say, a very difficult area that touches the lives of all citizens and citizens and really needs to be carried out as it needs to be done without any more unloving situations. If I understood you correctly, if we look at this reorganisation project in a kind of comprehensive way, social activation will be somewhere in the middle of next year, it has already started to work, the project is currently under way, and if I understood you correctly, the first programmes should also be at the social work centres in mid-2017. I believe it's hard to define it more concretely, but still. But as for this second piece, this informational calculation, I'm interested in: When do you plan to have these first informational calculations actually come to people? With regard to this first set of restructuring centres and that part of the communication strategy, what you finally had is also a call for an external consultant, which you have more than obviously chosen according to your words. When, then, do you expect this assembly to be somehow framed? So we can fully expect somewhere by mid-2018, if I understand you correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u112	Most of the work will have to take place in the second year, so this decision is made by this informational decision. The following year, however, it is also necessary to hunt in particular that only this can be done in one point of the year because of the need for social work centres to have all the data before that, so it is possible to carry out in September or no later than October, no later, and no, in short, there are a number of restrictions to be taken into account, so that we are working on this and all the workers involved have these deadlines. I am working hard to contribute with the help of my colleagues and all that I can as a minister. But we do have a real problem with human resources. The Ministry of Labour, perhaps my colleague, my former predecessor Vizjak could tell you, this is the ministry that lost the most employees, 38 people only in 2012, some were more decent than other ministers and we were downgrading, we have a number of lawsuits because people were robbed of salaries in 2012, reductions, in short, we have a number of internal problems. But it's that objective fact that we have to work within, anyway. The second year, these changes, both legal and gradual then regional change, because they will take place within the area units that will be established, will, of course, at the same time transform into regional units. Imagine this, for example, if we look at Ljubljana, in Ljubljana there is 5 CSD, then there will be one central, there will have to be local jurisdiction, all employees will be offered new employment, contracts of employment to make, status and legal, for every legal person a new statute, a new establishment act, and everything that is connected with it, so it is really a real treat. Above all, it is important that before this, before the first step, we have all the labs of the project itself so set up that it just clicks, because we simply cannot afford any major mistakes. There are things that are so big, they get complicated, but we have to have things arranged. It is also important, above all, that the general public's agreement to be aware of this is that we are very clearly communicating what is going to happen. Above all, it is about equal access to services, equal quality of services and more social work on the ground, which is what we all want. Administrative work will be in specific units, there will be no more individual exposure, there will be a separation of monetary assistance and a protection allowance from all other rights, where more or less the current work lane, and in particular the key person who will take care of the family and the concept of social work will be put back at the forefront. It is, however, a fact that how it will live will be, but it will probably be a while now, as was the question and also the work and professions of social work, and we also count on all the support of both the Faculty of Social Work and all the other organisations that are important in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Dear Minister, my question today will focus on professional workers at social work centres dealing with foster care, foster families and those children who somehow find themselves or live in foster care. If the social work centre somehow finds that the child is at risk in this original or parental family to be protected, a new family, a suitable family, or, as we say, a social work centre, will be sent to care for such children, at the suggestion of a professional worker at the social work centre. Of course, this new family or foster father must comply with the law of certain conditions, it is said that the social work centre first determines whether the person wants to carry out the care at all or meets the conditions, and then the commission at the Ministry of Labour selects the candidates who are suitable for this, of course, those candidates must also be trained in advance and, on the basis of that, then the Ministry gives the authorisation to carry out the care. However, as it is then carried out only by fostering and depending on the social worker, it is called professional work at the social work centre, which is sometimes left to itself, I am now speaking in women's sex. See, on the one hand, this social worker or professional worker, however, helps the parent family who has problems first, and on the other hand, takes the child away from the same family and sends him into foster care. I'm going to put a lot of questions down, Madam Secretary-General, so please don't state legislation and procedures, but I'd like to ask you to answer my question. At the Centre for Social Work there are specialised professionals: I wonder how many of these people are in Slovenia? I would also like to know if who finds and responds if this specialised professional does not make the right decision? Have such an action been established, and what were the consequences for the professional worker and for the child, for example, do I not think of the Koroan boys? How many persons do they have permission to carry out fostering activities? What is the education of these people? How often is the training of these people at the time of fostering? How many kids are in foster care? What is the average time these children spend in foster care? Does anyone determine whether the persons carrying out the breeding activity are still suitable for the implementation of the breeding operation at the time of carrying out the operation, or whether they are authorised to carry out the breeding operation? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you for asking. I will ask you the question: “Minister for work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities ask about fostering in the Republic of Slovenia and the conditions for carrying out foster care”, of course I can answer certain questions, but some of you, when you ask the question, know that if you do not ask us that I will have difficulty in thinking about how many professional workers there are, I can tell you how many employees at the social work centres. You said you didn't need legislation, but when you mention it, you don't spell it right, so I'll tell you again what the law says about foster care. Parenthood is an institution of family law regulated by the Marriage and Family Relations Act as a special form of child protection which requires care and training in non-parents. The Law on Marriage and Family Relations contains provisions on the purpose of fostering and on the decision of the Centre for Social Work on the placement of the child in the foster family. The Centre for Social Work gives birth to a child who has no family, a child who for various reasons cannot live with parents, or a child whose physical and mental development is at risk in the environment in which he lives. Only the implementation of the fostering activity is subject to specific legal regulation in the Law on the implementation of the fostering activity. This law lays down the conditions to be met by a person wishing to carry out a foster activity, the procedure for obtaining an authorisation for implementation, the method of carrying out a foster activity, the method and funding thereof, and certain other issues related to the implementation of a foster activity. On the basis of the ZIRD, the Rules on the Conditions and Procedures for the Implementation of the Law on the implementation of fostering activities have also been adopted. Any person wishing to carry out a parenting activity shall be authorised to carry out a fostering activity before the start of the breeding operation. The formal conditions to be met by the applicant for the implementation of the breeding activity are laid down by the ZIRD in the second chapter. The conditions to be met - the acquisition procedure says that the applicant must first meet formal conditions and must not have reservations referred to in Articles 5 and 6 of the ZIRD; must have a permanent residence; must have at least a vocational or professional education completed; this may exceptionally be lower if, in all circumstances, it is found to be in the clear interest of the child; must be of full age; neither the applicant for the foster father nor the person who lives with the candidate must be deprived of the parental right; must not be deprived of the parental capacity; neither can the applicant for the foster parent or the person who lives with the candidate be legally convicted of a criminal offence which is prosecuted on official duty or because of the criminal offence against life and body. The Centre shall, after verifying the fulfilment of the formal conditions, issue an assessment of the suitability of the applicant and his family to carry out the parenting activity taking into account the following criteria: verify the applicant’s motives for the decision to carry out the foster care activity; take into account factors which could positively have a negative impact on the psychosocial development of the child; determine the appropriate living conditions of the entire family, in particular the premises and equipment intended for the child to be taken into care; take into account, in addition to their own findings, any certificates or opinions or recommendations of other institutions. The assessment of the eligibility of the candidate and his family should show the motives for the implementation of the foster care, the description of the preparation of the family for the child, the willingness of the candidate to participate in the individual project group, the record of the candidate's understanding of the foster system and the role of the foster parent as a member of the social service. Each year, the Ministry shall publish an invitation to tender for the implementation of fostering activities in accordance with the needs of the foster parents. The number of applications is generally smaller each year than the need for foster parents has been published. The eligibility of candidates for the implementation of the breeding operation shall be verified by the Commission for the selection of candidates for the implementation of the breeding operation, on the basis of this assessment the Ministry shall decide on the authorisation. The selected breeders shall be entered in the register and shall then regularly participate in training, enable and encourage contacts between the child and the parents and participate in an individual project group monitoring the development of the child and the fostering of related activities organised by the Centre of the Child. Parenthood in relatives is slightly different. I can tell you from here. Statistical data. According to the latest data at the end of October 2016, there are 687 foster parents, 611 foster parents and 76 foster parents in the Republic of Slovenia. 113 of them are carried out as a profession. On average, 1.7 children are installed. The mean age of foster parents is 53.81 years. 552 foster parents have children installed. 135 does not currently have children installed. According to the latest data, 941 children or persons up to the age of 26 are placed in foster families. The average length of care is 6.91 years. 228 children in foster care are placed in families of relatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u118	That's what I'm going to say, because I don't know whether it makes sense to keep asking now or not, Minister. In my introduction, I summarized your website, and you said that I did not properly mention these procedures, which I just cut down a little. I've asked you a lot of questions, and I still have a lot of questions, and since you've just read from your website or from your marriage, I don't know if that makes sense. Between, I think I've asked you about ten questions, you've only answered me how many children are in foster care and how many of these families are doing this activity. I think that's what I'm going to ask in the written question of the House. Thank you very much so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Of course, I must say that this is an additional issue, but it is intended to complement the issue. In fact, your question was quite clear: “The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities I am asking about fostering in the Republic of Slovenia, conditions for carrying out foster care.” And that's what the secretary answered. So you really asked her a little bit. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u120	I would like to make it clear that those things that are under the responsibility of the Ministry, I have been given information regarding the implementation of foster care. When you ask me how many workers there are at social work centres, how much they have internally organised, how much they meet, this is a question for the competent director. Because the directors of social work centres are responsible, they are responsible for organising work processes in the way they are organised. The Ministry of Labour provides funding for social work centres, where according to their contract it pays them annually according to the number of employees. There, if you think that we have written this worker's professional work on foster care, this and this, of course, I can request further clarification on this, but in the Ministry's system I have the information that we've provided. And the Ministry of Labour is relatively responsible for the legislation, in this case we are the secondary body and we issue permits for the implementation of fostering activities, while the social work centres are the institutions responsible for the implementation of fostering. When you ask how and how the social work centres are implemented, the professional worker implements the provisions of the law, this is mainly a question for the director under whom the professional worker is individual. However, the Ministry is responsible for general conditions. For example, there have been guidelines that have never been mentioned before, because this is an area where the rulebook is difficult and you write every detail, so it was harmonised. I believe that 2013 has adopted guidelines where it is professionally, with the expertise of social work and all of them, some general guidelines have been adopted as assistance in the implementation of fostering activities. The Ministry of Labour issued this brochure. In short, I have tried to answer the questions that are within our purview. Secondly, of course, if you ask the question in writing, we can also get it, but that means I have to ask 62 CSD directors to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! If I look at the road infrastructure map of the Republic of Slovenia, I can point out two regions that have rather poor road links with other regions or with the centre of our country. This is the Belokran region and in the northern part of the Koroška region. And today, with this question, I'm going to focus more on the northern part, so to speak, on the Korean province. I will not be launching all ten years ago, since placement or those first activities of the third development axis in the northern part, but mainly on activities in the last two years, especially the section of Velenje–Slovenia Gradec. We know that this section is spatially located in the area under the State Spatial Plan Regulation already in 2013. In the middle of the year last year, environmental consensus was also obtained in June. This is the last document that actually concludes this consulting part of a project and goes into that engineering or, we builders, when we say, into the operational second part of the project. In short, all the conditions for this operational continuation of this project in this section have been obtained and, as a result, the Minister-designate, I ask you: What are the activities in this section where all these procedures are met in the first part of this project? What are the activities today, and what are they planned for next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Member of the Commission, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, thank you also for the question raised. Indeed, these, I will say, are more remote regions where the connection, road or rail, with central Slovenia, is worse with some nuclear network. In addition to the listed White Krajina and Savinjska, Koroška region there are still some in Slovenia. Here we can safely expose the Kočevsko-fishing area, Pivko and Ilirsko Bistrica as well as Idrija, Tolmin. In all these links, this government has set itself the goal of taking one step forward to make one step forward in improving these links to these remote regions. The third development axis project in the north and south has also made a significant shift in this mandate. If I now focus solely on this upper part of the third development axis, we have, in fact last year, defined how this project will be implemented and also the model of its funding, given that it is a toll road, it has been decided that the investor of this project will be DARS, which will finance this infrastructure through the loans hired. Of course, we know that these loans will need to be provided with an adequate guarantee, or other ways are being sought to enable ADR to rent these loans, but things in this area are also unfolding. In fact, they are undergoing an additional examination of the economic eligibility of this project and for this purpose an elaboratory was created, entitled Addressing possible scenarios for the construction of a new road link in the corridor of the north part of the third development axis at the section from the A1 to Velenje and Slovenj Gradec motorway. The purpose of this expert base was to determine the possible stage of construction and to verify the different performance scenarios mainly in relation to the construction costs themselves. It was found that economic eligibility can only show detailed model calculations of long-term multiplier effects, which are determined in a way that all possible scenarios can be verified from the perspective of the long-term economic effects of the development of the entire region, which can therefore progress with this improved road link. Accordingly, the study of the four economic effects of the third development axis investment at the Šentrupert-Velenje-Slovenia Gradec section, which will assess these broad economic effects of the investment, assesses and confirms the eligibility of the investment. The study and thus the choice of the most appropriate scenario of this construction phase, which will also determine the capacity of this road, will be completed by the end of this year. The DARS also has a business plan for 2017, which is currently being prepared during this period, the planned development of the project documentation for both sections of the motorway, both to Velenje and to Slovenj Gradac, and funds are being provided for the acquisition of real estate by the DARS on behalf of and on behalf of the State, and these funds will be provided in the national budget in 2017 on a specific dedicated budget under building rights compensation paid by the DARS for motorways and fast roads. Activities are therefore being carried out intensively and the timetables are essentially complemented by the objective. The main objective is to obtain the building permit as early as 2018, when we aim to also publish the building bids. The preparatory work is also expected to be as synchronized as possible on both sections, both until Velenje and beyond to the Slovenes of Graz, so that the activities on both sections will be as coordinated as possible. We can say that the project has actually come into an operational phase and that the dynamics are proceeding according to plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u126	Dear Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, all the activities, because it's a toll road, are taken by Dars. And because of the fact that in the realization of Dars, I did not notice any further active steps in their realization, which is why I have asked this question. I would say at this point or at this stage, which we know is already going into the phase just before the building permit, to order economic eligibility studies, is being questioned. Because at this point, full-scale, full-start design should be carried out at this section, and also on the basis of these basic design data, purchases of land should already be made. This would be the right approach to follow these activities in this section, which have already been completed. It should also be recalled that Prime Minister Korosci has promised something. He promised that at this section, where the conditions of placement are met, as well as other steps to start construction, this was said last year, within two years. All purchases must be made before the building permit is obtained. The objective of obtaining the building permit 2018 – Are we really going to make all the purchases in one year is also asking me a big question because we know that this is a demanding and long-term process. That's what I'd call it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u128	The purchases will take place intensively in 2017. This study, which is now being done, is, as it is said, intended to decide whether construction from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac is justified in four-way executions, or whether it is possible and reasonable and ultimately justified in the construction phase, that is to say, only a two-band connection, and after the traffic has grown to a certain extent, the upgrade of the other two belts to Velenje. I think there's a four-lane entitlement here. For this part of Velenje to Slovenj Gradac, an additional study was commissioned to examine the macroeconomic effects in order to demonstrate the appropriateness and eligibility of this construction, in order to decide, at the first stage of the two-lane or perhaps even a four-lane. This will take into account the potential development of all economic operators and the beneficial impact of this infrastructure on all those economic operators linked in this region to this infrastructure. So here too, the extensive work done by Dars in this sense has been done, which is now being concluded, as it is said, and then all these procedures are being carried out intensively, both by the production of project documentation and by the acquisition of land. Our desire, as it is said, is that both sections, both to Velenje and to the Slovenes of Graz, should be carried out in the most coordinated manner possible in order for all these activities to take place at the same time. That is why the Government is working to ensure that this lower section is put in place as soon as possible. Our goal is, if not by the end of this year, at least as early as possible at the beginning of next year, also at this section, which is needed to ensure that Velenje and the entire region are properly linked to the activity at this section at the same time as the section from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you, Chairman. I propose that a public debate be held on my issue. That's what I'm basing it on. The Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway project is now under way. When this project is completed, Dars has not prepared any major project to continue after this completion of the project. All indicators, macroeconomically and so on, show an improvement in the financial situation of our country, from year to year there are more budgetary resources for infrastructure, although we know that Dars is not building on the basis of the budget, but building on his own resources, of course with the State guarantee. After the completion of the Drazenci-Gruškovje project, there are several smaller projects prepared or prepared by Dars until then, but no larger project is prepared to continue this investment cycle on Dars. This is where it comes in, I'd say, some sort of time vacuum. And that is why I believe that this section, which is ready for such a phase to be completed at this time – we know that the Drazenci-Gruškovje project will be completed quite quickly – that during this time, after a rapid process and with all its activities, this project can be prepared to this stage so that Dars can continue to build a highway programme or also in this part of the rapid road programme in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November, in the framework of the votes. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. My question today is touching the doctor's study. I have asked the Minister this question several times. This time not even about the level of funds and when these funds will come because they have already happened this year, thank God, and here the Minister for providing funds in the budget for doctoral studies, I would like to thank once again. I also commend the measure contained in the new Higher Education Act, which includes co-financing of a doctoral study. [[Incomprehensible]] So where was the problem? The problem arose in the distribution of these funds. For the first time, admissions to the third stage of the study took place before the conditions for co-financing were known or before the tender came out. The entry also took place before it was even known whether a specific institution had obtained co-financing, while some institutions even fell out of place due to strange conditions, in particular because research references from mentors and mentors who were employed elsewhere were not taken into account. Next, there is an additional problem because co-financing for a number of students is essential. Some faxes went to the students so much that they were told, yes, but you can pay this first meal of tuition later, some said, see if we don't get the co-financing or you don't get the funds, then you can get out of the study without the extra costs and so on. There were also some profit colleges which had submitted contracts to students that now, if these students were not to receive co-financing, they would have to pay a share of the value of the first year of school. These amounts are moving, now depending on college to college, from a few hundred to a thousand 500 euros, and this is not negligible money. What I'm basically interested in is, Madam Minister: How you will and what your chances are to remedy this year's consequences of this call [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u133	I'm sorry, I made a mistake and I pushed it wrong. You've got 40 seconds. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much. Then you'll be asked a further question. Madam Minister, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u134	Dear Presidents and Members of Parliament! Commissioner Miha Kordiš, indeed, in 2016 the Ministry launched a call for the co-financing of a doctoral study, a generation of 2016, under which it will also provide from an integrated budget in both this year and, of course, in the coming years together, following the current estimate of EUR 4.8 million. In 2016, the Government also adopted a new regulation on co-financing of a doctoral study to publish this specific invitation to tender. This was also necessary because in the future we regulate the proposed amendment of doctoral studies in a different way than in the current law. Above all, so far it has been the funding of a doctoral study in the context of cohesion resources, the latest scheme in 2012/2013, so that your praise is in fact a source of encouragement that we are now systematically proposing to address the issue of a third-level doctoral study as a systemic solution. As regards the tender itself, the Ministry issued a public call for co-financing, i.e. this year, on 5 August. This was before the deadlines for admission to doctoral studies. This is an important information because it also relates to your assumption that this clock did not work well and that the information did not flow properly. It is said that August was already a tendering month, and this means that candidates in this case also had information that there will be an opportunity to obtain funding for doctoral studies for the next study year, of course in addition to the scheme for young researchers. In view of the resources presented, it was also clear that no co-financing would be possible for everyone, even in the light of the way in which the selection procedures for the selection of a doctoral student or student at the level of the institutions are taking place. In fact, through a public invitation to tender, the Ministry shall lay down the conditions to which each higher education institution may respond by its application for this invitation to tender, these are more detailed conditions for the choice of co-financing, and this institution may also be defined as specific conditions, which are the domain of a particular type of study. Of course, the institution has this right, but in any case it has to follow the basic conditions that are described in the invitation to tender uniquely for all institutions – for whom this study is intended, whether or not they already have the level of education acquired by candidates and candidates who apply, who have not yet had a co-financed study under the study programmes, and in particular what the so-called quality of the mentor should be according to scientific research work. The selected higher education institutions received a notification of doctoral study programmes that met these conditions for funding, which I had just summarized in October, so in mid-October, and they also immediately joined the selection of candidates. In the selection of students, as already mentioned, in addition to the conditions laid down in this Regulation, it was possible to establish additional conditions and selection criteria, which had to be approved and attached by the competent authority of the higher education institution. This is also the answer to your question about some criteria. This, of course, makes it possible to diversify electoral procedures in particular in relation to the specifics of each study area, which is important because difficulties under normal conditions in the public tender can of course vary. We also attach doctoral studies or co-financing to quality, i.e. both the quality of the mentor and the student, which is also one of the orientations not only in Slovenia, but we support in the higher education world in terms of finding new excellence in development, new excellence in research work and, of course, also meeting the criteria of the individual involved in this demanding study. You also mentioned the University of Ljubljana, specifically in this invitation to tender, the university itself used for additional criteria, for example, an average evaluation of the previous study, the research work of the candidate so far, and then took that into account in the selection. If there were equivalent points, it held, at least so reported by the university, and these were rare cases, including the priority of the application, i.e. the timing of the application. However, it is important to move forward, if it is still allowed to say that this is the most important part, because in 2017/2018 co-financing will also be carried out further, of course in line with budgetary resources, but it will be necessary to respect the use of these funds not only in accordance with the annual decision of the Minister, but also in view of the number of graduates of this third stage in the last five years, namely the importance of the institution in developing a doctoral study.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u135	Mr. Miha Kordish, you will request a further reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask for an answer, because I really came to you with this question in good faith, I didn't go to besieg you or full criticism, because I think that this call came up with these mistakes and I'm embarrassed by the slump, not because there's some weird math behind it. So I'm really curious about how you're going to step forward. Because now from your answer it was more understood in terms of, yes, because there were no such serious problems. And in fact, there were these problems, see, there are some students, they're enrolled, they have to give money, even though they didn't get that co-financing, because their colleges sat in their pockets. Let's say that's the first such thing. Another such thing, you yourself mentioned that you have, say, the University of Ljubljana, but that under the terms of the invitation to tender, mention the necessary points in relation to the publication of scientific, professional articles, according to the participations in conferences and so on, what are really things that are only done by doctoral students, is that you do not do them before you even approach the doctoral study and so on, of course, there are still questionable deadlines here, on August 5, yes, maybe papers can come out, but because you yourself have announced that in mid-October to higher education institutions, so there is not much time-consuming space for students. All these delusions or mistakes or stumbles, however, look, you can't deny them, have happened, some of the students are in trouble. So I repeat the question: How many of you have been playing around here with the idea of trying to try this one generation, which is now in the bag, to solve and these few examples somehow to protect yourself from the financial annoyance of college? Then how are you going to fix this in the future? Are you going to keep higher education institutions a little bit tighter so they don't pick up students, or are you going to give enough time to make co-financing conditions known before students sign up? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you very much. As I pointed out earlier, however, it is a new system for a long time since 2012/2013, so it is very important to move forward so that we really keep this systemality not only transparent but also effective for all involved, both knowledge institutions and students. Therefore, my emphasis is also in the conclusion, which may not have been sufficiently heard, not only to continue co-financing, but within the framework of the available budgetary resources, as this is also an emphasis on co-financing, but also to determine these funds by the annual decision of the Minister, taking into account the number of graduates of the third level of the institution over the last five years. So this year's call for a regulation, and then the continuation of co-financing in terms of how we can also use these funds deliberately and with a clear objective. As we have done so far for the second or first stage, a much clearer procedure will also be for the third stage if, of course, the amendment of the ZVIS, which will gradually make it easier for us, will also increase transparency, openness and, above all, the information flow towards students. It is true, however, that certain institutions, of course, also had a lot of work and problems with their choice, which they actually put in this study, especially the specifics already mentioned that require individual discipline. There are different election procedures here. All institutions, however, had to respect the implementation of the basic criteria of the invitation to tender. That is why perhaps some day later the Ministry itself made an assessment of who of the institutions met all these conditions, but in what way, of course, they then carry out the whole process, but it is also the domain of discipline. If these complications have arisen anywhere, we are also in contact with the institutions, in accordance with the rules which they have adopted, and with the responsibility of the body which has accepted this also at the knowledge institution itself, of course they must also inform and deal appropriately with the candidates or candidates who have entered this scheme. I stress, however, that it is important that we systematically move forward here and thus ensure the strength of the highest level of education that we have in our institutions of knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak will ask the Minister for Culture, Mr Anton Persak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u140	Dear Minister, at the end of October you visited Austria and met with your Austrian colleague Thomas Drozd. At this meeting, you also spoke about the issue of Novice, which means the Slovenian weekly in Austrian Koroška I am interested in: What did you make with your colleague? Did you also inform our Slovenian community in Austria's Koroška? We know that Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty requires Austria to finance a minority press, but unfortunately this co-financing is very modest. For example, in 2016, only €53 000 for four minority weeks, of which there are two for the Koroška weeks, with the News receiving 28 000 euros a year. We know it's barely for the editor if he is, let alone all the other expenses. In doing so, we find that they receive just as much as the issuer pays the tax to the Austrian State on the other hand. And so 90% of Slovenia is funded, only 10% of Austria. They also promise a law on press promotion, which has long been in preparation. Although I like to set the example of Austria, because in many respects it has laws, they are also excellent in implementing them, they can be an example to us, but in this case I cannot be satisfied with Austria's attitude towards the Slovenian minority press. So I'm asking you what you've agreed to with your colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Anton Pershak, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u142	Madam Member, let me take this opportunity to congratulate you on your re-election as Party President. With regard to the questions, let me say that the conversation with Minister Thomas Drozd was very constructive, it is true that the issues of the Slovenian minority and other minorities do not fully fall within its competence, since Austria has the same level as we do, otherwise at a slightly lower level in the Government, the Secretary of State for Minority Issues; of course, this is entirely the matter of the Secretary of State. On the other hand, I must say that Slovenia has been very involved in this issue, namely the media and their fates, minority media, so I was not the only one who spoke to representatives of the Austrian government about this. In this regard, the Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia has already addressed the government, and our Minister for Slovenians has spoken about this in place and around the world and, as Minister Drozd has said, so have I. The Minister has specifically promised that he will take action in the government to address this problem and, as far as possible, on a longer-term basis, what he has told me is that they are also preparing a new media law, that it is already in his plan for the issue of minority media to be settled within the law that he is preparing. And he is counting on this law to be prepared by the beginning of the next year and then adopted in due course. We also discussed other issues related to the issues of our minority, in particular its cultural expectations. And he has shown, I must say, understanding for this and also ensuring that he pays attention to it. I can also say that I invited him to visit Slovenia. He himself showed interest in this and, in fact, suggested that this visit be carried out in the first quarter of the following year and that it would be a good opportunity to continue this kind of conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you're requesting a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u144	I would be pleased if Mr Minister would also propose a date to which this problem will be resolved. We know that the News Week deals with major financial problems each year so that it can turn it off. So we can't count on a marriage that's gonna be ready someday. The experts who are involved say that this will probably not be so soon. However, the Slovenian Government must monitor this closely and, of course, require Austria to comply with Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty. We need to be persistent and consistent here. I know that the Minister for Slovenians himself is incarcerated and has no such power in the world. I expect, of course, that both you and the Minister of Culture and the Foreign Minister will be very effective in referring this issue to partners on the other hand. Because I have often found that we are not sufficiently consistent when a country has to comply with its contractual obligations, the legal obligations regarding the Slovenian minority. Therefore, I ask you to insist, address this issue and, of course, also demand a solution to this acute problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u145	Mr. Anton Pershak, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u146	Yes, thank you for that additional question. I would like to point out once again that, as Minister Drozda has said, in particular, he has warned that he cannot be the one who, as a proposal for a solution to this financial one, will support this and will also encourage the Secretary of State to propose this solution. At the same time, as you yourself have said, I must say that in this case the work of our representatives is indeed somehow coordinated and multilateral. As has already been said, within the external ministry system, this initiative has gone to the title of the Austrian Government, on my part, by the Minister for Slovenia in place and around the world. This is a case where we do not act on multiple salaries and, of course, we will continue to do so, at least as far as the Ministry of Culture is concerned, I can guarantee that. I must say that I am also personally in constant more or less contact, because some people, representatives of the Slovenian organisations in Koroška and Styria, know each other, so that some of us also personally exchange e-mails about the issues they are suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u148	Of course, I will propose that we have a special point, which would be addressed primarily from this point of view, in terms of how consistently our government is committed by our ministers to the implementation of laws relating to Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries. I would also point out that the Slovenians in Koroška expected you to stop by before you went to Vienna because you were supposed to be so arranged and then were a little disappointed because it didn’t happen and only later learned that you were in these conversations. Since they can give you the first hand data immediately, they also tell you different backgrounds, so I certainly suggest that you not only exchange e-mails, but actually meet with them, invite them to consult me in Ljubljana, because this way they feel that they are involved, and then you can even better represent their interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of the Interior, mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Since Mrs Žnidar is absent, please, if you also define yourself to the way you reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Please give the oral answer at the next meeting. I am sorry that the Minister is not here today, but I believe that the next month, when we have the question sent again, the topic will probably be the same or even more interesting. My parliamentary question, of course, concerns the issue of protection of the southern border from the point of view of illegal migration. Now that the Minister's gone, I'm going to start a little unusual. Nobody listens to me like that here in the hall, so it's mostly because of the viewers. Look, right now from Belgrade to Croatia's border along the highway, several thousand people are walking. Right now. This was published by the media this morning. These are obviously tired of waiting in Serbia and going, regardless of whether it's a highway, on the highway or at least going, I will say, this was published in the course of the morning, against the border with Croatia. If they continue their journey, we can expect them here at our border out there in a few days. Second, on Thursday, the Austrian police received a citizen, a German citizen in particular, who was somehow connected or flirted with some of their organisations, which glorify Hitler and his role and time. She handed it over to a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. In Slovenia, however, this citizen became a free citizen, because in Slovenia it is nothing wrong, it is nothing criminal. What was I trying to point out with these two cases? For the first time, we are not prepared to protect the border, and for the second time what we said in the National Assembly, that criminal legislation must be amended in the light of such extremists, so that the Slovenian authorities can also treat them appropriately in accordance with the legislation. Since of course we did not adopt this law at the time, I think that the colleague sitting in front of me is such a situation today – this citizen is a free citizen in Slovenia and cannot stay in Austria and they banish her. Of course, this topic will be much more or even more topical in the coming time, so within a few days or thirty days or whatever, it will be a matter of question. However, I would like to point out that the State of the Republic of Slovenia should take all necessary measures to secure the border as well as the Austrians. I cannot only be critical to the Minister, but I must make it clear that her law on foreigners, which has brought good solutions, is a temporary suspension of the Schengen legislation, if necessary, in the cabinet's drawer. If the President of the Government does not continue to do so, he will be responsible for this situation. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you, Dr. Gorenak. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister and to all who are still in the hall! Minister of Infrastructure Dr Petra Gasperšič, I will ask about the measures envisaged to ensure the overall transportability of the Vrsič crossing. It is the only high mountain crossing in the Republic of Slovenia, which is also within the Triglav National Park. In the past, there have been many problems with transport itself, especially in this winter time, so I am asking this question to avoid any complications this year. The question also goes to other segments of this important transition. It is also about transport or ensuring some normal transport during the summer, since in recent years, when the traffic burden of this transition has increased considerably, there are also problems with transport in summer peaks. From this title, there have been several initiatives in the past to take a systematic approach to address this problem. As I said, both the provision of winter transport with the individual measures available, as well as the provision of some normal transport capacity in transport corners, when there is a high frequency of traffic and, above all, a calm traffic on this high mountain crossing becomes a problem for some normal traffic that is in transit. In view of the fact that much has been invested in some reconstruction in last year's part of the Russian President's visit, it is said somewhere to the Russian Chapel, and given that in the past there has been a great deal of promise that there will be more investment in transport infrastructure at this high-mountain transition, and thus uninterrupted transport throughout the year, I ask the Minister: What measures are actually envisaged, both in the short term and in the long term, for the overall transport and use of this transition from both perspectives, both winter and summer transport? How can we arrange a peaceful traffic, given that the crossing is within the Triglav National Park?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u153	Mr. Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Member, Mr Daniel Krivec, thank you also for the question raised. With regard to this part of the issue of winter transport, I will answer more specifically. In last year, the top road was recategorised to a higher, third priority class in terms of winter maintenance, meaning that roads are also maintained in winter conditions, of course if weather and mainly avalanche conditions allow along the road. The road crawls and pours until the height of the new-western snow reaches an inch [15 cm]. During the nighttime snowfall, the road does not crawl and closes for all traffic. After each more extensive snowfall, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment, ARSO, reviews the avalanche conditions and prepares an assessment of the risk of snowcrawling, which is then also the basis for the decision to reopen the road for transport. In this way road transport will be ensured at a time when the conditions along the route are favourable and it is possible to maintain the road at reasonable costs. In the event of an adverse situation where transport safety as well as the safety of winter service operators, or too high financial resources are required to ensure transport, the road will remain closed until the situation improves. Let me give you some more information on the duration of the road closure in the last three years, the three winter seasons and the related maintenance costs. Thus, for example, in the winter season last year, it is 2015/2016, the road across the Vršič crossing was closed 74 days, in the previous season it is 2014/2015, and in the season 2013/2014 130 days each year. So, when we put the road in a higher class, this transport, we can say, what has increased, the number of closed days has practically halved. The last winter maintenance season was around €157 000, 98 000 in the previous 2014/2015 season and 107 000 in the 2013/2014 season. These are therefore data on the regulation and provision of transport in wintertime. With regard to the summer season, I agree, however, that in recent years there have actually been difficulties in providing, in particular, the capacity to regulate steady traffic, and thus the congestion at the top of the peak crossing point. Thus, it may be necessary to consider either providing some additional surfaces for this peaceful traffic to be properly regulated, possibly against the payment of a parking space. In short, these matters should certainly be considered. As far as maintaining the road is concerned, last year a number of funds were invested up to the section of the Russian chapel. In the following season, measures are also envisaged higher along the road, especially in the part where there are really significant situations and in fact the integrity and transport of this road is already being threatened in some way. So much can be done briefly on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you, too. Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u156	Yes, thank you to the Minister for these answers and to ensure that maintenance is provided at the same level as last year. In view of the road situation, it is important to note that from the Russian Chapel there is virtually no traffic for buses. In view of the fact that this is such an important road, it will probably be necessary to take a short approach to resolving and providing funds for the reconstruction of this shorter section as well. As far as this summer burden is concerned, or in the last period of time, it is also a burden for noise, which has been very problematic in recent years, especially within the lower part of the Triglav National Park. Therefore, it may be a further question, given that I have been talking about some provision for the annual transport of the Vršič crossing, also the issue of the shorter tunnel project which was submitted to the Ministry, where there was also agreement that this is within a protection area and that this would in some way also solve these environmental burdens at the very top. Was this project of this shorter tunnel under the top of Vršič, which solves both the winter prison and, on the other hand, the problems with steady traffic, whatever was done at the Ministry? Is there a project in this direction that could also draw on funds from the following financial perspective? I am interested in this because it is an area which is in the narrow part of the protected area of the Triglav National Park and which also has the possibility of providing quality resources. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u157	Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u158	Yes, with regard to this project, it is said that a certain connection to the tunnel below the top would be ensured and thus this area of traffic noise is actually being burdened, and in winter conditions, in itself safe transport is ensured in this threatened area, unfortunately, I cannot currently specifically provide information on the realisations or procedures for the implementation of this project. I assure you that I will obtain this information and we can transmit it to you in writing. However, such a project is, after all, the only way to achieve the right budgetary capabilities is if it is really possible to obtain European funds. We now know that for road infrastructure alone they are very limited, exclusively to the core trans-European corridors. So we should really check these options here if these funds could be provided from any other, that is, dedicated resources, given that this is a protected area of nature or an area close to the national border and perhaps in this sense may be important. I will provide more detailed information on the possibility of implementing this project in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Dark, and the Minister for Home Affairs Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. My question concerns the appearance of the symbols of the occupier's associates at the time of the posthumous remains in Barbara's trench. We're going to remember a lot of them after two photos. One of you is Minister Anja Kopač Dark at the baptism, where the wreath with the inscription Slava hero. And the second photograph is a group of people in front of the Maribor capital and one of them bears the flag of the Independent State of Croatia. So the question has two dimensions, criminal and political, so I'm asking both ministers. My question to the Minister of the Interior, from whom I will ask a written reply, since it is absent, relates to this NDH, was the Quislin unit and its symbols must be treated in the same way as the symbols of fascist Italy or Nazi Germany. Public display of such symbols must be punished and therefore I wonder: Have the police dealt with this case, which is documented in these photographs? What instructions do police have for action if, when crossing borders or in public places, they notice that people have NDH symbols on them? The question to the Minister of Labour concerns the purpose of the sad ceremony: What do you report with this act? The President of the State wrote that the ceremony was prepared for the wishes of so-called civil associations representing their victims. As far as I know, there was no official ID. According to the available data, this was the majority of the members of the Quislin units, called Ustashas, who murdered seven priests and thousands of women and children in Autumn. In short, I want to know: By what criterion have you determined which associations can represent victims, because these associations are responsible for provocations and many citizens of Slovenia feel very confused and played? In short, what do you report with your participation in such celebrations, because such Croatian and Slovenian associations advocate fascism and cooperation with the occupying party? Our position here is perfectly clear. Fascism is evil and the country must clearly demonstrate whether fascism condemns or tolerates it. Here you cannot sit in two chairs, because the Fascism that has shaken Europe and caused millions of casualties has not been caused by wicked people, but by the good, kind people who have looked away as our government does now. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. In the absence of the Minister of the Interior, I give the floor only to Mrs Anji Kopač Dark for her part of the answer. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mrs Violeta Tomic. Barbara's military cemetery in the Hudi Cave was discovered in March 2009 and is located in the abandoned mines of Laško. In the area between the first and second caves, 432 human remains were found. An investigation continued in the first of the three shafts, in which the remains of the victims were again found at depths of eight meters. From a depth of 5 feet [5 m] to a depth of 13 meters, 346 victims were raised by the end of June 2009. Then the competent investigating judge stopped further investigations as he concluded that there would be no further data obtained to identify the perpetrator. All the victims were temporarily stored in a morgue built by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities for this purpose. Barbara's War Cemetery in the Hudi Cave was 21. 11. 2012 entered in the Register of Military Cemeteries of the Republic of Slovenia. In September 2015, a meeting was held with the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve the issues of hidden graves on the subject of further activities in the regulation of the Barbara Reef War Cemetery in the Hudi Cave. At the meeting, it was agreed to proceed as soon as possible to the crossing and to the arrangements for the burial ground outside the mine. Based on expert opinions, the position was taken that the most appropriate location for the burial of remains in the burial grounds in the area of the Dobrava memorial park near Maribor is in the immediate vicinity of the cemetery and the monument to the victims of postwar beatings. Following the completion of all the necessary procedures for the preparation of the necessary documentation and the execution of the procurement procedure, preparatory work was launched in August 2016 for the regulation of the warehousing site. 3. Ten. 2016, with the unfortunate ceremony, began the transfer of the first remains from the temporary morgue to the Hudi Cave, which took place until 27. 10. when the memorial ceremony and funeral of the victim from the temporary morgue were held in the area of the Dobrava Memorial Park. That was 778 postmortem remains. Experts from the National Forensic Laboratory of the Ministry of the Interior took samples, stored DNA samples according to professional standards, which are used for forensic DNA analysis for each of the grave pits of exhumed bodies. DNA analysis will be carried out in case the professional criterion is met, allowing for a realistic expectation that human remains can be identified. The victims will be buried individually in the common burial ground, thus ensuring traceability with the location of the site and the samples taken for subsequent identification. Work continues to dig up victims who are still in the mine ditch. The estimate is 2,000,500 postmortem remains. If you're asking me what I was doing 3. In October – as a citizen and as the Minister of Labour, whose ministry was responsible for the procurement and execution of the crossing that passed from the Huda Cave, I bowed to the human victims, which, of course, you want to use in the direction that this is related to my attitude towards fascism or anything that has been said repeatedly that it is not. Unfortunately, I had this possibility that in March 2009, when it opened, I was there in that hellhole, and I hope no one will have to see it and face it. No matter what, there are victims who deserve to be buried. While someone was being abused; organized on 3 October was by the New Slovenian Testament and, yes, unfortunately there was an inscription on that wreath that did not judge there. I have personally bowed down to human victims, whom I think this generation, with a very clear attitude towards national liberation, to ours, I have repeatedly said in the National Assembly that this does not mean changing our history, but that we can bury people in a way that is pathetic and dignified, and in this I have no bad conscience whatsoever. But if you want to use this, my attitude towards national liberation, to events, it has no connection, and it serves only to continue disputes between peoples in our country, nothing else, and we are moving away. The fact that you're saying that this is an exaggeration to tell the Minister of the Interior what the procedures are to prevent this, she'll say. But that was not the purpose of the act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u163	Mrs Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u164	Look, during World War II, there were so many unnecessary victims on all sides, and national liberation and revolution were, of course, justifiable acts. But the collaboration is discarded as such, and once we clear it up, it's time for the pieté. The pieta and I don't have any problems, but we are upset by the ideological note of this ceremony. We also know, as reported by journalist Trumpus, that these people have sacrificed the political and church leadership of the so-called Ljubljana Province with their conscious and armed collaboration. And you are a member of the Social Democrats who, together with the Union of Fighters, made a statement in which you wrote down, quote: "In the SD we will continue to strive that no one will use the five-year events to mutilate the values of NOBs and use them for political purposes." And you are attending this ceremony as an official representative of the country and this country is built on the values of NOB, excuse me. And I want to know if you're saying that every violent death is tragic in its own way, especially because most of the people killed were actually misled. Then it's okay if they were sacrificed by their leaders with some wrong goals. But if you report that the NOB is a crime in itself and that the collaboration was therefore justified, then this is certainly not right. I would also like to know if, as a representative of the Government, you know the commitment of the Slovenian political emigration in Argentina in 1990, where they have demanded exactly what you are implementing today, in short, to repeal all the legislation which has the ideal basis of the NOB, to rehabilitate all the collaborators and without a clearly held position and the corresponding measures set out in these points, any reconciliation is barren and is already doomed to failure in advance, thereby endangering the peaceful coexistence of the Slovenians. Do you know these commitments that you fulfill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u165	Minister Anja Kopač Dark, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u166	Look, unfortunately, the only purpose of this is to keep the Slovenians and Slovenians apart and to continue to use the emotions of people who have been affected during a very sensitive period of our history for emotional manipulation for political purposes. But I'm glad you read the SD statement and the Union of Fighters. So I don't have anything to add here. Perhaps I would just add that we agree that after more than 70 years after the world's largest sea, until now, the time has come for us to bury all the victims of war and post-war violence who still do not have our graves in Slovenia. It is very clear that this does not mean revitalizing history or whatever you want to show now. The fact is that we are probably capable, I hope that my generation and perhaps even your generation is already capable of seeing victims as victims, as people who deserve a decent burial, without, of course, interfering with our historical facts and any kind of conversion. And here the views are clear, and I am glad that you also stated that you do not object to a five-year burial. It was just a five-year-old funeral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u167	Mrs. Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u168	Of course, all victims have the right to a grave, including millions who have died in concentration camps. Here I would say that there is a significant letter and a pity because I do not have enough time, the Italian General Alessaandr Lusan, who wrote to Mussolini, in which he described that he has no words, what he witnessed, when the Ustashas were bloodyly killing people and residents, mainly Serbs. In short, they were saved, and some of those who got rid of them were stronger than all of them, all of the armies of this world, because they lost everything, lost their children, their wives, their mothers, their sisters, their houses, their possessions. They were even freed from fear of death. The purpose of their lives was only revenge, terrible revenge, for they were in some way ashamed to survive. In short, an indelible stain will fall on Italy and our culture if we do not distance ourselves from the Ustashas until the time is right and we do not allow ourselves to be attributed to support madness. I just want to say that we don't mix things up, Your Honor. Whoever's taking advantage of this human disaster, we know it. And who uses it for political purposes, we know it well. Obstetric symbols do not belong to any of the celebrations and should be disabled. The same change in the future – as Pahor says, we do not change history, we change the future. Sure. The RCC gets even stronger positions in society than it has, even greater political and material strength and symbols of the most horrendous criminal groups, which have been ashamed of even the occupying forces, are being tolerated today. This is far from the values we envisioned at the time of self - conquest and even less so in the spirit of reconciliation. Thank you. I expect a debate on this on behalf of all the victims of fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u169	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Marija Bačič will ask the Minister for Science and Sport Education Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič a question. Ma'am, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, all of you, who are still in the hall! Dear Minister, in recent years the problems caused by the decline in the number of children in primary education have been brought to an ever-increasing level of education. In particular, in secondary education, there are plenty of organisational and human resources issues that are reflected in the difficulties of reshaping departments, while at the same time more and more high-school teachers are at the Employment Institute. It will take a long time to move from primary school to secondary school the trend of increasing the number of births, which has slightly improved the democratic image of the country. The consequences of past negative demographic trends are also felt by the student homes, which were basically built for students to stay as close or better in the education area as possible. Many today face the threat of imprisonment. Therefore, they try to solve their activities by offering housing conditions to students, by offering training and education activities for children with special needs, by offering other accommodations or beds, by eating, by washing and so on. One is the Diajska dom Murska Sobota, which is supposed to no longer have the conditions for existence and should even be closed after informal information in the next school year. Let me point out that this house has a favourable local location and has been present in the Premur area for eight decades. Therefore, its closure would be a major mistake that would be detrimental to the wider environment. That's why I'm asking you, Minister, in general, as well as for this example: What are the ministry's plans regarding the functioning of student homes, which, in order to reduce the number of students, are facing an increasing lack of housing capacity? However, the number of children in generations is increasing and it would be a shame to close the student homes during this bridge period, as the need for their accommodation will soon increase again. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u171	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u172	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the student homes, as we know them today, were created in the 1980s, of course with different plans, and especially with visions of how certain areas will develop economically in order to strengthen the network of secondary schools. What we see not only then, but also today, is a different demographic situation, different levels of economic development of the environment and, of course, the need for secondary programmes, the implementation of these programmes, and in particular the level of entry into these secondary programmes. Diagnostic homes were designed to complement the implementation of secondary education, especially vocational, vocational and high school education. And that's why there's been a lot of investment for these purposes. It is true, however, that due to the decline in fertility, including the expected number of children from other republics, the distribution of the network of secondary school programmes itself, especially in the recent period of road construction, transport opportunities and subsidisation, there has been a lack of demand for housing in these homes as expected in the very vision of home development. We also know from numerous studies that it is recognised in Slovenia that young people are staying at home longer and longer, especially where these education centres are close to them. They shall not be transferred to student homes or any other nearby capacity linking the secondary or study concept to the location itself. According to estimates and analyses, young people are closer to enrolling in nearby schools, where their location is easier to access. As already mentioned, also subsidising transport or their transport and scholarship policies are often chosen in a way that is also possible. All of this is a domain of very different factors within different geographical regions in Slovenia. We have urban centres and areas where the demand for housing is growing. And of course we have areas, one you mentioned, where demand is not or is also strongly visible in secondary school programmes; not only in the last year or two, but in the longer term. What is important in this is that, regardless of the past and the present, about 6% of the population has been continuously enrolled in student homes, according to enrolment in secondary schools on average for about 10 years. Usually much less than the population itself, which is also understandable for these reasons. What and how do we resolve situations in certain student homes? In order to develop homes of additional services that allow not only filling capacity, but also other services that help, as far as possible, meet all the requirements of the quality implementation of the programme. Above all, we are looking for solutions for homes in the Ministry, because they can no longer function legally as independent persons, because there is simply a lack of demand for housing and also less opportunities for the development of other services. This brings them together organizationally to larger schools, showing the need for either space, space activities, or even a certain form of stay in the way that comes to individual programmes. This was, for example, the case in Škofja Loka and Portorož. This house, which has been exposed, comes from a region where demand for programmes is decreasing, especially through certain programmes, where living in the environment is also such that students prefer to remain or prefer to remain in their home environment, i.e. mostly at home; or have the possibility of looking for relatively accessible other programmes in other urban centres. How do we deal with such cases? It is always very gradual and thoughtful, because it is important how the local community works, what programmes are encouraged and how we can also link the development of secondary school programs with the attraction of all those students or students who would like to stay in the local area; or perhaps even attract them from other areas. Therefore, carefully and step-by-step with all stakeholders involved, we are always exploring and looking for a solution to these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u173	Mrs Marija Bachič, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you for a very comprehensive answer. However, in the event of an accidental closure of this house, I cannot agree with you in any way, so I am joining your opinion or your proposal that we, together with the local community, should somehow be able to resolve it. I think there is also the Centre for School and School Activities in the option, if that were possible. If there's any closure of this house, it's going to be a disaster. I also heard from informal information that they were supposed to shut down the Murzophos, and they were supposed to be open in a suburban settlement in Rakićan. This booth is much more maintained, as well as infrastructure, transport connections are closer. If you are thinking this way, it would be really thorough to think about it, and perhaps I would invite you to visit to say a word on the spot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u175	Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u176	We always involve all the participants in these processes, because it is local dimensions, it is a matter of importance in some local environment. Of course, the situations, as I have already defined, are very different in demographic terms, even at the level of entry, even as expected, as well as in the development of the programmes themselves. But it is certainly not just a decision by one of the guides, but always in dialogue with all sides, because it is only then that we can find common solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to ask the question of the Minister for Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić, and the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, we are monitoring this year that there are more and more deaths on Slovenian roads. Despite various preventive actions and other programmes run by the government and also by NGOs, these figures are still increasing. We'll probably all agree together that we can't do everything to make sure there's no fatalities. There is a great deal of prevention, and most definitely in the conduct of each individual. But there is much we can do if we get those most vulnerable people off the road. I'm talking about bikers and pedestrians. And my question concerns putting cycling routes in space. During the month, during the week of mobility, you also adopted an action plan when you said at the Ministry that you would do everything with this year's awareness and other actions so that there would be no more deaths among bikers than last year's. As far as I'm aware, this number has not been exceeded yet, and I sincerely hope it will remain so. This summer we had a fatal accident in the Poljanska Valley, in which a young biker died. I'm sure she wouldn't have to die if they had a bike track. We've been talking to the mayors for a long time. We want bike paths from Jyrov to Škofje Loka. Here we run into the problem of bureaucracy and various rules. We know what it's like to have a bicycle rule, how it's about their widths, how it's about their destination. Dear Minister, a very general question: What are you going to do in your ministries to get the Members on the tables to facilitate the placement of cycling routes into space? The municipalities are interested in this, the Ministry of Economy called last year at the BSC for a call for projects planned by the municipalities in the coming years. Three projects were selected for Gorenjska, including the cycling route between Bled and Jesenica. Unfortunately, this is where it got complicated, but for another time, why there were no more projects put together to evaluate together and even build together, not to do it separately. I want to know: What will you do to facilitate the placement of cycling routes in the area in terms of bureaucracy, regulations and all other procedures and legality that prevent easier installation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u179	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, for asking the question. With regard to the placement of these cycling routes or routes in the space and their construction, the Ministry of Infrastructure closely monitors these trends in the development of cycling, and we also respond to this as much as possible through concrete projects carried out by the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate and other stakeholders by integrating this cycling theme into various development and strategic plans. The development of cycling infrastructure is an integral part of the Transport Development Strategy, as well as a motion for a resolution on the national programme, which is currently part of the parliamentary procedure. The separation of cycling and motor transport is a very appropriate measure, as you yourself have pointed out, to ensure greater transport safety. Recently, as well as more and more for the development of cycling tourism. With the introduction of the new Transport Signalling Regulation this year at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we immediately joined the Infrastructure Directorate in marking the remote cycling link from Ratec to Ljubljana. And this project was successfully completed a month ago. In view of the positive reactions, the remote cycling link labelling project will continue in other parts of Slovenia. Let me say that here we are establishing a remote connection in a way that we use special markings to take this cycling route on different routes; sometimes also on dedicated cycling routes. Differently on different municipal or state roads, however, they are chosen to be as safe as possible for the safe development of cycling and thus allow for a journey by bicycle at a greater distance across the territory of our country. With regard to the placement of state cycling routes into space, it should be said that the independent, classical placement of such infrastructure into space is virtually not carried out. At the moment, we have no State Spatial Plan in progress, but cycling infrastructure is usually an integral part of another road or other infrastructure project. Most of the time, however, the construction of such infrastructure is carried out within the framework of works for public benefit; it is said in the context of road renewals, where there are also sidewalks and cycling routes, in particular in settlements, within the framework of the existing road body. If, then, the process of placing state cycling routes on the initiative of the Ministry of Infrastructure begins, the Ministry of Environment and Space will take over, and the Minister will probably say more here. I would also like to mention the activities we carry out at the Ministry. You probably know that this year we had a call for the co-financing of integrated transport strategies, where we expect local communities to anticipate certain cycling routes as part of these strategies and will then be able to implement them by co-financing with European funds. At the Ministry, we are also planning amendments to the regulation which lays down the conditions for the design of cycling routes in a way that would reduce these requirements for the width of sidewalks and cycling lanes in areas where we do not deal with less roads, and thus also allow for easier and faster installation and construction of these links in settlements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u181	The second part of the question will be answered by the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u182	Dear President, honourable Member, Mr Jan Mahnic! The Minister has already said that State spatial plans for the construction of cycling routes are virtually not accepted; however, cycling is accepted as part of another comprehensive spatial arrangement of State importance. It is, say, roads or the construction of embankments, such as at the bottom of Savi, it is a cyclist’s connection to railway infrastructure. That's what it means. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u183	I'm sorry, Madam Minister, time's up. Mr. Jean Mahnič, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you. It's just that I'm giving it to the minister a certain amount of time that she doesn't have anymore, or she'll have it in three minutes to answer me. I can see that the problem is somehow detected and you know where the problems are. You've opened up another subject or problem. You said that the problem was that there were no individual projects; however, projects were, if I understood correctly, when certain new transport links were being built. I didn't go into that much detail, and I didn't go to see where these fatalities are on the bikers' side; whether it's more in urban centers, or if it's outside the settlements. I think it makes sense, and what we see in the urban centres, these cycling paths are well covered. The problem is dangerous road sections, where the road is one where we know that high speeds are being achieved, especially by stronger road users, these are certainly passenger cars and other stronger means of transport, where we have a fence and we cannot get the biker just because we do not have the right basis, to get off the regional or state roads in a way that could make it easier and then actually build this cycling track. How are these projects now? Is the Ministry planning any other or additional calls; is that all that was last November? This is a call from the Ministry of Economy, where everyone could apply for their project, and then they said that they would seek or determine the appropriateness of individual projects in coordination with other ministries, namely the area to which the notified project was also selected, in which case we are talking about this cycle path to be evaluated and implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u185	Minister Irena Majcen, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u186	I'll be very brief. Placing cycling routes into the space is usually a local arrangement or an arrangement at local level. But it is true that it is broader, it is part of a connecting path. We'll have opportunities to move faster into space. They'll be given in the law on space regulation. This is one of the three laws that we are preparing at the Ministry for adoption next year. This law on regulating the space of certain investments, and certainly this is the construction of cycling roads, provides for the adoption of spatial acts of a regional level where this binding route could be adequately resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u187	Minister Gaszperšič, these are your last minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much. As you have already mentioned, there are several places on the national network where either the sidewalk or the corresponding cycling link should be provided. These projects are largely identified and will also be implemented in accordance with the possibilities of providing budgetary resources. These projects are no longer eligible for co-financing with European funds, so we need to provide them with budgetary resources. As it is said, these projects, sidewalks and cycling links are largely carried out within the framework of existing traffic arrangements. In this case, therefore, we do not face the need to involve these projects in space; of course, we are facing a problem to ensure that the infrastructure is regulated. Here we have quite a problem with this existing regulation, which sets out what are the widths of the sidewalks and cycling lanes. And right here, I've talked about this before, we want to simplify this rule so that these widths can make it easier and cheaper to get into space and provide safer infrastructure of this kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much, both ministers. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc a question. Here you go, Mr. Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and to you, President! I have a question about specialization at the General Hospital of Trbovlje. Problem there is next. In the General Hospital Trbovlje and in general in Zasavje there are no doctors; the reason is that specialization is given by the Medical Chamber under the authority of your Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, according to the regions that are shaped according to the principles of the Regional Units of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, but not by statistical regions. This means that Zasavje belongs to the Ljubljana regional unit; as a result, from Ljubljana they give specialties for Zasavje. What's going on? One thing is that the specialists who are sent there from Ljubljana are not usually residents of Zasavje and are therefore looking immediately after the completion of their specialization to move to Ljubljana or near the centre. It is said that they leave the hospital where they were specialized; on the other hand, the hospital does not have the opportunity to specialize medical students there in this hospital. They probably have an interest in specializing there, staying there and working; but the hospital does not have this possibility because the specializations are not her dosed, but are being administered from Ljubljana. So I ask you: Are you at the Ministry thinking about a different way of inviting and approving specializations? One initiative was, for example, to amend article 18 of the Medical Services Act, where Zasavje would be defined as a sub-region and thus somehow gain autonomy in the definition of specialisations. But if you haven't thought about it that way, I'd like to know: What are other possible solutions to the human resources deficit in this hospital? What solutions do you have and do you think about the problem at the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mr Members Luka Mesec. It is true, as you point out in the parliamentary question, that the system of tendering for specialisations and general arrangements for the employment of specialists in Slovenia is not well regulated. As you have found, staff problems have been dealt with by the General Hospital of Trbovlje and also by some others precisely because there is no commitment to hire a specialist when she finishes her specialization at that hospital she sent to the specialist. These personnel deficits have also been caused by the way in which specialisations are tendered. You do know that they are prescribed by the Medical Chamber, although with the consent of the Ministry of Health; unfortunately, in recent years they have not devoted enough to the long-term planning and needs of residents for medical care and with doctors. Specialisation and method of invitation to tender and approval, you have correctly determined, laid down by the Law on Medical Services. You also rightly point out that these specialisations are approved for regions based on the district units of the Health Insurance Office, but not for certain health care providers, and therefore, inter alia, due to this system, particularly in peripheral areas, there is a significant shortage of relevant specialists. At the Ministry of Health, we are aware of these shortcomings in the specialisation tendering system, so we will also propose appropriate amendments. There has already been some coordination with the professional public on possible solutions to the approval of these specialisations; above all, it must be said that we need to play a more important role here for directors, hospital managers and health centres to tell them about the staffing needs that specialists need in the long term. Among other things, since negotiations are under way with the medical and dental union, we find that almost 750 family medicine doctors are missing when the standards are in place. We have also obtained information on how to call for specialisations in other countries of the European Union. It is true that there is also some way of creating needs for regions, but in the future we will commit a specialist who completes a specific specialisation to at least certain years of work in an institution where he has performed this specialisation. This will be proposed in legislation or in systemic solutions. With regard to the General Hospital of Trbovlje, the following: there is no longer any restriction on employment; therefore, I would say that there are no obstacles to the fact that the General Hospital of Trbovlje is properly staffed, of course if it receives the relevant specialists. In fact, there are no longer those restrictions, measures taken by the ZUJF, which prevented additional employment of doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Luka Moon, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thanks for the answers. I'm kind of happy with them. Everything you said was very general; it is said that you have obtained data from abroad to propose appropriate changes to consult and so on. But the problem we have is very specific. As you have defined for yourself, not only for Zasavje, but in general for peripheral hospitals is a problem in the system of specialization. We are simply faced with the fact that those who are from Trbovlje or Zasavje, often even fellows from the General Hospital of Trbovlje, do not get a specialization; for example, they get a medical student from elsewhere, who, of course, find a job in Ljubljana or somewhere closer to their place of residence. For a short period of time, it should be done that a specialist is being sought or that a system is being set up to prefer the specialists who are there; or that the hospital will have the opportunity to specialize in local medical students and that they will remain there. In particular, I am interested in what I have pointed out before: Are you inclined to amend the Medical Service Act in the way I suggested? This is said to be an amendment to Article 18 in order to simply define Zasavje as a sub-region and thus the General Hospital of Trbovlje would be given this opportunity, which I describe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you. Throughout my term of office, we have not simply agreed on the number of specialisations offered by the Medical Chamber, because we have found that there are no specific specialisations as well as a lack of specific regions. For example, "participating" is very lacking in rural regions, as you mentioned Zasavje and Trbovlje, and in regions that are essentially gravitating against Ljubljana. Unfortunately, most people are looking for employment in Ljubljana. I will definitely continue the practice, and also from this place, I will ask that the directors of institutions where they are lacking give a number, so that at the Ministry we can then propose an increased number of specific specialisations, because then we simply disagree with what the Chamber proposes. Let me say that by the end of 2024 we will have a thousand 864 specialists in Slovenia. It is true, however, that hospitals have the opportunity to keep a specialist in their hospital in such a way as to require the reimbursement of the costs of specialisation they had with this person in the event of relocation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, you have the floor to request a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. Since I have not received any promise or commitment from the Minister that this law will change in a way that corresponds to peripheral hospitals such as the General Hospital of Trbovlje, I propose that a general discussion be held on this issue. As I wrote in addition to the response, we have a general problem in Slovenia with the fact that peripheral hospitals and health care homes do not get the appropriate specialists due to the existing method of specialization. Therefore, at least in order to solve this particular problem, the problem in Zasavje is true, I propose that a general discussion be held on the amendment of Article 18 of the Medical Services Act in order to regulate at least this region. Otherwise, I would once again urge the Minister to prepare an appropriate system of procedures as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November, in the framework of the votes. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the question of the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Lord Hear, here you are. Your word is.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the story of the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Center has a long beard, almost like King Matjaž. I must say that we have been talking almost every two months through questions sent, through informal meetings both in Ljubljana and at local level, regionally, how to finally get this emergency centre in Ptuj through to start building it. As you know, financial resources have already been provided in the budget for this year. In some ways, the Health Committee has also proposed to the government to include the Ptuj Emergency Centre in the emergency centres network. That's what happened last year. It is up to us now that this investment or project is finally made. The General Hospital of Ptuj is tied to 120,000 people, who have already been severely reduced by the scope of many health services in recent years because less resources have been allocated to this area than other comparable ones. As a result of this, the difficult liquidity situation of the General Hospital Ptuj also presents some difficulties in providing own funds for the construction of the emergency centre. It is, however, a fact that with the daily delay of this investment or project, we are improving the equality of access to emergency health services for the inhabitants of the Lower Podrav Region. As an opportunity to solve the problem, it was recognised by the local community and also by the House of Pensioners Ptuj's idea, as well as the proposal that the House of Pensioners Ptuj, which has been operating in recent years more than EUR 10 million, will contribute the necessary additional financial resources. This surplus was created by the people of our wider region of Lower Podravska Region, which is already less developed, the unemployment rate is above average high and the social situation is relatively low. Therefore, the mayors of Lower Podravje and also Members have for some time called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to keep the surplus created by the Lower Lawn, namely Ptujčov and the inhabitants of the surrounding area, in the environment where it was created. At the same time, it is not to be forgotten that the Guardians of the House of Pensioners Ptuj are very common users of emergency and emergency services of the General Hospital Ptuj. At first, I would like to pour some pure wine, not because it was Martin’s; but to finally get this project through and start talking honestly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you for saying that again. Dear Member, Mr Chuš, it is indeed what you have said. I kept my promise as always, and the money was in the budget, and we put the emergency center in the network. As you know, according to the criteria this centre is classified in Class C3, the total value of the construction project of this centre was little less than €2.5 million. And the Ministry has a million €909,000 at its stake. In view of the participation of previous emergency centres, where hospitals had to give their share of the participation, Ptuj hospital should contribute EUR 585 000. And here, unfortunately, it's stuck. Let me tell you, if we were to go after a project that was approved, we would actually be able to already, I will not say, build this emergency centre; but we would be very intensive in building. Let me say that this money is not lost or we have it in the budget fund and it will be transferred to 2017 and will remain for the same purposes. Unfortunately, however, as you mentioned, this hospital has liquidity problems due to some past cases. And, of course, he's having trouble providing his share of the money. These are the reasons that Mr Chuš also spoke about that proposals and ideas have come to use the surplus of the Ptuj Retirement House. I must say that I am not aware of the latest results of these activities in the local field. I think my colleague Anja will also say more, which is responsible or responsible for the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u203	Minister Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. I'll tell you about the latest developments in this area regarding the House of Retired Ptuj. This house also included the building site of the care unit in the investment plan in 2016. The purchase is foreseen from the General Hospital Ptuj of EUR 600,000. 4103/271 of 21. 6. 2016 gave agreement to Ptuj House of Pensioners on the financial plan and work programme for 2016, which, among other investments, also planned the purchase of land from Ptuj General Hospital, which will be financed by Ptuj House of Pensioners from funds of unused depreciation in previous years. In view of the opinion of the Ministry of Justice and later the representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration, in 2014, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs informed the operators of the state’s immovable property under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Administration that, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law, they can freely dispose of the real property of the State and the self-government local communities of the purchase and sale of property held in the administration. Thus, the House of Retired Ptuj could purchase property from another public agency without restrictions, in accordance with our notice. The first paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on the Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities provides that operators of immovable property of the State are public authorities, judicial authorities and public entities designated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as controllers by a decision or the right to manage the immovable property of the State is conferred by law, by law or by an act of establishment adopted by the Government. However, Article 14 of this Act, which deals with legal matters, provides that the Government shall decide on the non-remunerated transfers of property rights on immovable property of the State, and on other legal matters relating to the real estate of the State shall decide and conclude the legal transaction of the manager or the person empowered by the chairman. Whether the Director of the House of Pensioners Ptuj has already begun a real estate buy-in procedure from the General Hospital of Ptuj on the basis of an approved business financial plan and in accordance with the powers it has under the Real Estate Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u205	Mr. Hearst, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u206	At first, I'd like to thank you for your answers. Of course, she also thanks Minister Kolar Celarc. Despite the fact that I do not substantively agree with you in many ways, thank you for listening to the initiative of the local community to transfer the funds in the budget to the following year. It is interesting, however, what has been heard today, because I hold in my hand the initiative signed by the Director of General Hospital Ptuj Andrej Levanič and Jožica Šemnicki, Director of the House of Pensioners Ptuj, dated 22. 6. 2016, where they signed the initiative or intention and readiness to participate in the construction project of the Emergency Centre at General Hospital Ptuj. The Council of Pensioners has already approved the financial plan for 2016, which also contains funds for the purchase of the above-mentioned land for the purpose of expanding its activities. We will be able to purchase land after agreement has been reached on the financial plan by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The divestment of these lands does not jeopardise the strategic development of the General Hospital of Ptuj; nor is the activity of the House of Pensioners of Ptuj a competitive activity of the hospital. On the basis of what can be heard and also on the latest events in the local community, which are somehow going in the direction that the health centre of Ptuj also supports the construction of the Emergency Centre Ptuj in the General Hospital Ptuj, I no longer see obstacles to turning on the green light and starting with the construction of the Emergency Centre Ptuj. Am I wrong? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u207	Minister of Health, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u208	In financial matters it is simply that a letter of goodwill or intention cannot be sufficient to close the financial structure of the building. What Mr Chuš mentioned is a fine and right expressed will; but it must be followed by more binding commitments such as contracts or conclusions that we can really know that the hospital will participate in its part of the participation. When we get it, we're gonna go public right now, because we've been ready for this for a while. And I must say that quite a few meetings have been held in our ministry with the hospital management; various options have also been proposed. However, it should also be said that the General Hospital of Ptuj presented a new investment programme for this emergency centre at the beginning of 2016, where the value of this investment increased by a good million; and I will not now list which renovations of buildings and other matters are not part of the emergency centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you. Dear Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u210	I think all the conditions are met for things to be intensified and to be carried out on the ground. What's manoeuvring is now to be carried out. The Director has the formal agreement of the Ministry, so that he can start work, it is probably necessary to do some more legal work; but all the preconditions for a situation to be carried out are now done. I take it that this consent was given in relation to the said 21. 6, so it's been like this for several months now. The question of dispatch does not change the situation on the ground in any way, but it is important that things are carried out on the ground as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u211	Mr. Chus, you have the floor for a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u212	Since I am time-bound with only two rounds, we have found that we can still discuss, including with regard to the amendment or consent of the Ministry of Health, from which I received a written reply that you cannot issue consent to the amendment; but I have got the feeling that you support this project. And today, when I'm on my way to Ptuj, I have to say that I'm going to step into action right now and get the actors to speed up this project, because if the Ptuj Emergency Center started building yesterday, it would be too late. However, as an acceleration and incentive of the project, I would suggest that we also hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will ask the Minister of Finance of Mags a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Lord Vatovec, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, the first CEF call opened this month, where the government is supposed to run for European funding for the second track. Last February, this candidacy was unsuccessful under the same package because no financial structure was concluded. The first call is now open, the second open next year in January. I think it should be stressed that financial structures, at least clearly, are still not there. It is still not clear whether the role of private partners should be played by Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railway or by someone else, say the Republic of Hungary. But clearly there is something else, and that is that no one in this Chamber, probably even wider, probably does not yet know what the phrase of the cooperation between Luke Koper and the Slovenian Railways means. I checked with the administration of Luke Koper, where they claim that they are not familiar with this proposal or that they are not otherwise familiar with it than they are with the media, as is the case with the rest of the public. They were not notified by the Government, not notified by project company 2TKK; cooperation is undefined. In particular, those who are supposed to participate in this project, with the exception of Slovenian Railways, probably do not know anything about this. On the other hand, the media recently issued a minutes of your delegation's meeting with the delegation of the Orban government. And this record speaks of one very crystal clear thing: that the Hungarian side would invest 200 million in this project, in return it would have acquired ownership and influence in Luka Koper; their state banks, the state railway carrier and construction companies would have obtained business in the construction and operation of another track. And that, if not otherwise, is a much more concrete financial structure. That's why I'm interested in the following: What is the expression of the participation of Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways? Does this mean that you will have to recapitalize 2DKK and where you will get the appropriate funds? Why is Luke’s leadership not aware of the cooperation that is expected of them? What option will be applied to the European call for proposals? Or a variant with state-owned companies or a variant with Hungary? And the last question: How much of Luke Koper's share would this government be willing to give up this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u215	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Vatovec, in the introduction, let me begin by explaining that the Ministry of Finance is not responsible for the topics you are asking. However, we are actively involved in these discussions, as the second-tier project of Divača-Koper can have a strong impact on the public financial situation in Slovenia. That is why it is our responsibility, and above all our responsibility to be actively involved in the project. It is not your claim that our delegation, I have understood this in terms of the delegation of the Ministry of Finance, has had discussions with the Hungarian side; but this is one of the options studied by the Interdepartmental Working Group to examine a set of forms of public-private partnership. We are also actively involved in this working group by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and this is by no means a working group in which we would be the bearer ministry. With regard to other issues, this is an application for a CEF invitation, for a financial structure, and with regard to the participation of Slovenian Railways and Luke Koper, I reiterate that this is not a matter under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. However, as far as I am aware of the fact that we are active members of the Interdepartmental Working Group, there are no final answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u217	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to request an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you. I was kind of expecting this answer about jurisdiction. As you said, the fact is that the two representatives of the Ministry of Finance are in this Interdepartmental Group, that they were present at this meeting with the Hungarian delegation and that in some ways your ministry is watching over the fate of public finances in this country. And it probably has something to say about how this project is going to be implemented. I don't buy this escape answer. I'm kind of asking the same question again. We are at this meeting and we are asking Members questions to get concrete and, above all, direct answers from ministers. Since people have been at this meeting and there are probably discussions about what the design of this project would be like for a long time, there is probably at least some outline of what the strategy will be. Because this call is now open for the government to prepare this project, or I hope that the government today has a little clearer idea of how it will go into the application of this call so that we will not witness a similar debacle as we did in February. Please, let us repeat the exercise, but I want a little more direct answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u219	Madam Minister of Finance, Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I do not deny the authority to ask whatever you want; but I cannot answer matters that do not fall within my jurisdiction. In our ministry, we care about one aspect of this project, an important aspect, but only for one of them. This is a public financial aspect. I have said that the final decisions on the financial structure and form of the public-private partnership have not yet been taken. Each of them has its own fiscal implications. And considering these is the task of members of the Interdepartmental Working Group by the Ministry of Finance. It's not about avoiding the answer, it's about responding in accordance with the powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Minister. We have thus concluded the first round of questions sent. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počovalski a question. Mr. Kordish, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. I am asking the Minister about deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives. There is no hidden news that the position of the Minister is that the prices of petroleum derivatives must be fully deregulated and that the ministry is being used for this purpose. Thus, with the last government regulation comes the deregulation of the prices of oil derivatives along the highway. My questions here are simple: Why are you opting for a policy that is extremely harmful for the population, for the economy and also for public finances, and is solely for the benefit of the oil distributors who are here in the oligopolistic situation? Why do you not take into account your own studies on the consequences of such a policy, which speak very clearly about margins going up; we can even expect a 100 per cent increase in a few years? Why do you not take into account the Committee on the Economy's decision to assess the consequences of deregulation of oil derivatives prices by the end of the year and continue deregulation before then? In the United Left, we have already called twice a meeting of the Committee on the Economy in order to stop or at least stop the deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives, but our conclusions have, unfortunately, always been driven. But the coalition on that first call – I think we organised it already in May – adopted a decision when it gave you an assessment of the consequences of deregulation by the end of the year. But of course, at this conclusion, you are now obviously blubbering and continuing deregulation. Of course, this policy is very controversial. The Union of Consumers has spoken against even the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, but at the Ministry you have somehow taken up the programme to continue to liberalise the prices of petroleum derivatives, regardless of the harmful consequences this has for all sectors of the company, with the exception of the profits of oil distributors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u223	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u224	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Member, thank you for the question. A new Regulation on the formation of new prices for certain oil derivatives is in force, according to which in the Republic of Slovenia the pricing of motor 95-octane gasoline and diesel fuel remains the same as before, except on motorways and fast roads. With the second step of liberalisation following the first liberalisation of 98-octane and extra light combustion oil, we have come to have less than a quarter of the oil market liberalized in Slovenia. So we're not talking about perfect liberalisation, we're talking about fourth. We have taken a second step to liberalise the prices of oil derivatives, as I said, on a quarter of the oil market. We believe that the liberalisation of oil derivatives prices is not harmful for the population, the economy and public finances and does not serve to forge profits from oil distributors. The release of price control measures for petroleum derivatives will contribute to greater competition in the market over the longer term, resulting in greater price competition between oil suppliers, which will have long-term positive consequences for the consumer and for the competitive economy and the free operation of companies on the market. The aim of the State is to establish a normal functioning market where market mechanisms and competition can be established between oil derivatives distributors, so we will continue to seek to liberalise the prices of oil derivatives throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, as you have found that I am working personally. Use of a government study on the consequences of price deregulation. With regard to the government study on the consequences of the liberalisation of oil derivatives prices, we have already explained on several occasions that the study carried out by our Ministry and by the Ministry of Finance was made on the assumption of the so-called worst possible scenario, namely that the margins on motorways and fast roads will rise by 100 per cent. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we estimate that the possible increase in margins on motorways will be significantly lower, resulting in a corresponding reduction in the public financial deficit. Our expectations and projections also confirm the current situation in the market for liberalised prices of 98- and more octane gasoline and extra light combustion oil, which have been on the liberalised market since April this year; and where 98-octane petrol does not contain more than 1% of the higher price, and in heating oil it is the opposite or even lower price over a certain period. Let me explain that at the Committee's 33rd emergency meeting, the economy adopted a decision proposing that the Economic Committee of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia assess the effects of the deregulation of oil derivatives prices based on an analysis of the evolution of prices of released petroleum derivatives by the end of 2016. This decision does not limit the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the implementation of a price deregulation policy or the abolition of regulated pricing measures for oil derivatives. An analysis of the consequences of deregulation of the prices of the 98-octane petrol and petrol derivatives will be carried out in the first months of next year. And the first analysis of April-October is done, we have it at the Ministry, and it shows what I said earlier. The deregulation of the prices of oil derivatives on motorways and fast roads is therefore in no way contrary to the decision taken by the Committee on the Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u225	Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, you are operating on terms such as: you estimate that there will be no price rises or margins; you believe that this rise is not harmful; at the same time you ensure that the deregulation of the prices of oil derivatives does not serve to raise the profits of oil distributors. Then what's this lift for? We have one analysis that says the margins will rise. The margins will rise, prices will rise. This is the only set of serious data that we operate on, in addition to very non-binding opinions from the Ministry, which do not rely on anything. They are complemented by an ideological footnote on competitiveness. These government regulations have so far limited prices up, not down. If new distributors want to enter the Slovenian market and offer lower prices to consumers, they can already do so. The only thing you do by liberalising the prices of petroleum derivatives is to break the ceiling through which oil traders can wind prices. This is all and, of course, goes to the detriment of other sectors of the economy, to the detriment of public finances and to the detriment of the vast majority of the population and population in our country. I repeat the question: Why do you choose a policy that is extremely harmful, which goes against the well-being of the vast majority of this country, even against your own oath that you made when you took office? Why do you consistently ignore the results of your study but try to rejuvenate them, go around them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u227	Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u228	Why? Because the existing distributors in this system we have are running away. And the existing system is forcing us into what you're trying to convince us to do. Secondly, none of this has happened since April until now, as you predicted at the first step of deregulation; but nevertheless something about why worrying about the high prices on highways is excessive. The level of the margin has an impact on the final price of fuels to a very small extent. The margins represent only 6 % of the overall fuel price structure; while excise duties represent around 40 % of the price, only 20 % of the fuel oil. In the event of an excessive price rise, oil traders would lose not only domestic but also transit passengers on motorways. This means that we would not only sell less fuel, but in particular lose a large part of the profits on the extra range, in which they generate the majority of the profits you are talking about. In short, domestic consumers will have the possibility of filling fuel on petrol pumps outside the highway, while price-insensitive consumers will continue to refuel on petrol stations along highways. However, we also consider something, and we must not underestimate the oil traders so that they do not overly raise prices; as a result, there will be no greater decline in the quantities sold because they do not want to do themselves harm. I also believe that there will be no greater impact on the public financial situation in this area. There are still more things to talk about. The existing regulation regulating fuel prices also lasts from 2002. By law, this Regulation can only be extended by 6-12 months, except for. However, this exceptional extension of the regulation has been going on for 14 years if I can calculate the matter. We are also obliged to take a step forward in this area; in the end, in 1990, we decided on a market, not an agreed economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u229	Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u230	I agree with the Minister in that general judgment that we must move forward; but regulating the prices of petroleum derivatives is not a step forward, is a step backwards. One step further would be the complete nationalisation of Petrol. This is a step forward, and we're bringing labor management into Petrol. That's a step forward. The second step is to fully regulate the prices of all oil derivatives, which is the diametric opposite of what this government is doing. And I would like a debate in this National Assembly on the Minister's response because his replies do not rely on any facts, they do not rely on any analysis; they rely on the ideological dogmas of the free market and apparently with the material support of oil traders, who spoke out loud only through the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia in favour of deregulation of oil derivatives prices. Everyone else was against it. It was against the Union of Consumers, it was against even the Economic Chamber, of course it is against the public in general, because it knows well that deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives means raising those prices. And it is simply not enough to remove these concerns by swinging our hand and arguing that nothing dramatic has happened since April of this price liberalisation. Let's take this time range to a few years and look abroad what happened in Austria, what happened in Croatia. There's margins going up everywhere. In these two countries, even by 100%. These are very hard facts that cannot be torpedoed with opinions and assessments that do not rely on anything. And that is why in the United Left we are warmed up in this topic as we are; because here the government is taking measures that will strike the Slovenian consumer, especially the poor and the working people, due to higher gas prices; only to raise oil distributors' profits. This is disputed by your first words at the plenary session of the National Assembly, when you swore to act, Mr Minister, for the well-being of this country, for the well-being of its inhabitants. What we are seeing now is the only prosperity you are working for, the prosperity of oil traders; and therefore we need a debate in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Violeta Tomic will ask the outgoing question to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Mrs. Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, chairman. Minister Koprivnikar, two weeks ago, a protest of J's payroll workers took place in front of the government palace. That the highest concentration of criminal anomalies is in the pay group J is a well-known fact. That these injustices need to be removed, we know from 2009 that the government and the unions have agreed on this. You always promise to fix this burning problem, and nothing has happened until today. The wage classes of these workers are still often below the minimum wage. After more than two years of ministry and after three budgets of excuses to do so, you no longer have. On the other hand, there are more reasons to protest these stigmatised workers every day. The way in which the so-called public sector wage arrangement you have chosen, Mr Minister, is more similar to blackmail than negotiations. I don't know how else I can describe what's been going on in the last few months. Despite last year's agreement with the unions that there will be no unilateral moves and that changes in the salaries of public officials will only occur with the consent of trade unions, the government has put in place a proposal for a law that preserves virtually all savings. Last week it seemed like you'd come to your senses, you postponed the consideration of the law so that you could agree with the social partners, as you promised a good year ago. And what did you do in this coalition today? For tomorrow at 11:15, so to speak, at midnight, you have convened the meeting you wish to attend, according to all, to adopt this harmful law. Although the union agreement is not yet in place, you are calling a night meeting to treat this law completely intransparency. What does this mean for public servants, teachers, nurses, chefs, educators and cleaners, we don't know. At the protest, the workers and the workers asked me to ask you a few questions: Why has the Ministry of Public Administration, despite government commitments repeated every year since 2009, not yet in more than seven years have it ensured the abolition of the anomalies in pay group J? How do you plan to eliminate anomalies in the public sector wage system? Do you believe that the criteria for evaluating public servants in the same situation put all public servants in the same position? Do you find it acceptable that the starting classes in the public sector wage system are below the minimum wage? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u233	Dear Minister of Public Administration, Mr. Boris Koprivnikar, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u234	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, Member, for that question. If I'm trying to answer in this short time in a row. I followed the protest outside the palace. Interestingly, some trade unions took part in the protests; not those who explicitly represent group J. It is interesting that in those days the point of removal of salary abnormalities was withdrawn at the request of trade unions at the government negotiating group. I have not chosen the arrangements and the means of negotiating for myself, and we are bound by the law and the agreements we have so far. An agreement may be the responsibility of both parties, although every time we do not reach an agreement, the responsibility lies solely with the government. The two sides are negotiating and the two parties must also negotiate. This government has not taken any unilateral action, it has done everything in agreement. The law currently in parliamentary procedure has also been tabled in accordance with the agreement of the negotiating group. In accordance with the agreement of the negotiating group, we have also informed members on the Committee that the conditions have not been met, given that no agreement has been reached with the trade union party. Therefore, the Government has acted decisively on all the requirements and obligations it has accepted. Speaking of the draft law, which is savings, let me remind you that already signed agreements have returned to the public sector this year over 200 million additional costs of wage funds. And already signed agreements will return 110 additional millions in the coming year for the cost of work. We are burdened with a 300 million-dollar increase in labour costs, namely that we are solely in favour of saving. As far as night meetings and other matters are concerned, since it is the insistence of Members that this point should still be closed in the context of this budget meeting, this is the only way to actually do so. It was also the commission of members of the committee to try again with the union agreement; and I am now coming from this agreement. However, the first agreement in this regard was concluded in 2009, in fact, it was not realized, as savings measures, not release, were also implemented during this period due to the crisis. In the mandate of this government, we have also adopted, as agreed with the unions, the concept of the abolition of anomalies. The government negotiating party has already held 22 meetings on its side, examined 700 jobs, drafted a proposal; however, it must be understood that jobs are included in collective agreements which the government cannot unilaterally amend. Despite repeated calls, we still have not encountered a concrete response from the trade union party to agree on the classification of wage classes and the government cannot unilaterally do so. I can tell you the history of these negotiations, everything is also documented and also found in the minutes; however, so far there has not been a concrete discussion as to how this government proposal, which has been prepared, has also been forwarded to the trade union parties, with which the whole process has been agreed, will actually be implemented. Once again, the government cannot unilaterally do this because it is enshrined in collective agreements. It should also be known that the salary class, which means the basic salary and is classified under the minimum wage, means only the starting salary class. And I agree with you that the classification of these wage classes under the minimum wage is not acceptable. I agree. However, the correction of this must be made in agreement with the unions and the correction of these starting wage classes has an impact on the whole salary scale. However, the minimum wage is not only an item, a category relating to the public sector, but to the whole; and it is a general fuse, under which no one can receive a salary in that country. This is why it is also a safeguard for the economy. As regards the fairness of the remuneration measures, these are set out in the Public Sector Wage System Act, uniform for all. The chairman who assesses this is the one who is always responsible for assessing his subordinates. And it is precisely with the amendments to the Public Sector Wages Act, which we have been trying since February to reach this agreement, which you have pointed out, to the union commitment, that we are trying to do just that in order to make these criteria more objective, more concrete and more tailored to individual paying groups in order to achieve the final objective we want, namely, that the quality and scope of the employee's work are more directly linked to its payment. Even here, unfortunately, we did not run into union readiness, so substantive discussions have not actually taken place in all this time; but the trade union side has in principle rejected any discussion on changing these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u235	Mrs Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u236	As I expected, you will avoid responsibility and put it on the unions, those who are truly the only ones who stand up and defend the interests of the workers. You obviously, Minister Koprivnikar, have clearly put aside those 10% of the best-paid. You're saying the government hasn't made a single unilateral move. I don't know when it was coordinated to give 60 million euros to the richest. It is said that the rich crises are long gone, and the poorest will continue to be saved. May I remind you that this government anti-social reform gives us €80 a month. And on the other hand, for the worst paid workers in the public sector, there is no way you can find money to have a starting point higher than the minimum wage. And this is where you find a whole bunch of excuses. It is interesting that, as President of the Management Committee of the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia, you spoke quite differently. And there's one more thing I'm worried about. Here I have a proposal for a law on social protection activities that opens the door wide to privatisation of homes for older citizens. I really want to know if you can make sure that this doesn't happen. Since I have a few more seconds, look, the driver – courier, with a three-year vocational school, is in the 12th grade, the server is in the 10th grade, the diet chef is in the 15th grade, the economy in the 17th grade. Does that seem acceptable to you? Are there any excuses for these people who are full - time and living below the poverty line? Is there any excuse that can hold judgment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u237	Minister Koprivnikar, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u238	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you Members for these additional questions as well. Besides, I don't know what my job in the Community of Social Institutions is to do with it; and I don't know what the statements were that would be contrary to what I am defending today. All measures to release austerity measures, such as promotions and the release of salary scales, were agreed with the unions. The types of measures that can be relaxed have been given them a choice, and they have decided which ones have a priority. I'm sorry. I have to say this. The regression of the salary scale or the release of the salary scale, if any, was one of the measures agreed upon in the negotiations with the unions. And it wasn't a unilateral government move. In doing so, let me say that we have also placed on the table once again an offer to pay the full regression to all up to the 30th pay grade, while others still have restrictions. And they're stepping up that offer. With regard to the Social Protection Act; I really don't know if it's in place for me to comment on it, because I don't even know any proposal. But you need to know that, too. Trade unions always report that public servants, rightly, have saved so much for this country during the crisis. With the release of the salary scale, the best-paid civil servants saved the country; let’s be honest. Those are the ones that got the most cut. And what was machined by the release of austerity measures by choice and in agreement with the union was only a return to the pre-crisis situation, as we promised. And that's what we're actually doing, strictly in agreement with the unions. All the measures that have been released so far have been agreed upon and the government has not taken any unilateral action itself, nor has it made a single unilateral decision, nor has it made a single proposal in the field of wages to Parliament, nor has it implemented in practice without a signed agreement with trade unions, which it also strictly respects. I'm sorry to say no to these obviouss. However, I personally agree with you that it is necessary to speed up the elimination of these salary anomalies, so we have worked extremely intensively on the government side. The proposal is ready. However, it cannot be applied unilaterally because we currently have such a system that entering into a collective agreement cannot be a unilateral intervention, but an agreement between the Government and trade unions. Once an agreement is reached, the removals of salary anomalys will also be possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u239	Mrs. Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request a procedural request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. Minister, the change in the income scale has been made by the government itself. She didn't expect any negotiations with the unions here. And these EUR 60 million that you have given to the richest, best paid in the country, could be "donated" or managed by one more social policy to pay the worst-paid. This would be a social measure worth this government. It seems totally unacceptable to me that those who are full-time employees who carry out their work as full-time employees still live below the poverty line and that, despite the fact that savings are being released, as you say, do not take care of them first. I think all government measures are moving in the direction that money flows from the poorest to the richest. And, of course, that's unacceptable. The gap between the poor and the rich is increasing in Slovenia. And the tightening of the belt continues, and in this way we can look forward to new crises, for we know that the rich will not live any better with this forgiveness; but the poorest would know this very well. That is precisely why, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to hold a debate at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u241	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November, in the framework of the votes. Mr Luka Mesec asks the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić, and to the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Lord of the moon, here you are. Your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u242	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again! My question is about the route of the third development axis in the middle part. In August, a study of variants was published proposing the most appropriate variants of the construction of this axis, namely, for the middle part, that is immediately under the highway, available three variants: First, G1, went through Sevnica and Šentjur; second, G2, through the Wall Bridge, the Roman Toplice and Lasko and join the highway near Žalc and Celje; third, G3, and takes place from the Wall Bridge through Hrastnik and Trbovlje and joins the motorway at Prebold. The Ministry of Infrastructure commissioned this study and carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Space. Together, both ministries found that the most appropriate variant of G2 is the one that runs from the Wall Bridge across the Roman Toplice and Lasko and joins the highway with Žalec and Celje. This choice is surprising. But it's surprising for the following reasons. First of all, the Sava congregations were working on a G3 route. Trbovlje, Hrastnik and Zagorje on Sava have very bad traffic connections with the rest of Slovenia and will become a blind intestine if this development axis is to overrun them now. Secondly, Zasavje built its regional strategy, at least partly, even on the assumption that the third development axis would take place on this route, as some silent agreement had existed years ago. And thirdly, the Strategy for Spatial Development of Slovenia three municipalities in Zasavje are called Trbovlje, Hrastnik and Zagorje ob Savi, defined as the centres of national importance, which must be developed as a priority. On the other hand, we have the congregation of Laško and Rome’s Toplice, where the placement of this route through their congregations was even opposed because it was supposed to affect tourism. At the same time, Laško is defined in the Spatial Development Strategy only as a long-term centre, not as a centre of national importance, as is the case with the Sava municipalities. That's why I'm asking you: Why did you decide to take the route past Laska instead of on the route past Zasavje? Did you take into account the development documents and the needs of Zasavje when placing the middle part of the development axis? Why did you not take into account in the National Assembly the adopted Strategy for Spatial Development of Slovenia, in which the Sava municipalities are defined as municipalities of national importance? Have you taken into account the daily traffic burdens of the existing road network and the number of migrants travelling to work from Zasavje? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u243	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u244	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Luka Mesec, for the question raised. With regard to this placement of the third development axis in the middle part and elsewhere, quite a number of activities have already been carried out. Thus, in the middle part of 2008, when variants were developed over the whole course of the third development axis from Austria to Croatia, 10 variants were evaluated and compared, and then eighteen combinations of these variants were compared. All versions started with a link on the A1 motorway and ended with a link on the A2 motorway and took place in three corridors, as you have already named, i.e. the G1 corridor across Kozianska, this is the eastern corridor from Šentjur to Sevnica; then the central corridor, called the G2, via Celje and Laško do Radeč; and the western corridor across Zasavje, so-called G3 corridor, from Prebold, Trbovlje, Hrastnik to Radeč. The variant in the central corridor was then assessed as the most appropriate, as has already been said, from Celje, Laško, Wall Bridge to Sava and then through the Market, Mokronoga, Šmarješke Spalice to the A2 motorway near the New Town. The essential problem of this proposed solution was mainly reflected in its economic inequitableness and also the social inadmissibility of the proposed route in particular areas. Therefore, a redefinition of the design baselines was proposed, where the study of variants was then supplemented and also carried out a comparison of the currently selected variant with two other so-called minimum variants relating to recovery to the main extent of the existing network. In October this year, such an updated study of variants was also made public. In this completed study, the original central variant, which runs from Celje, Laska to Šmarješke Spalice and joins the A2 motorway near Otočec, was proposed again as the most appropriate option. In addition to this study, no variants in the Western corridor across Zasavje or any other variants were re-examined. However, a major emphasis was placed on this third development axis in the Wall Bridge, through the new road connection G2-108 Hrastnik–Zidani Bridge and related new bridge over Sava and Savinja in the Wall Bridge, because this link, as we know, is already placed in space. However, I would also like to point out that the project is still in the stage of the variant study, that comments are still coming and their analysis will only begin, so it is too early to talk about the final version of the third development axis in the middle part. However, I can also say that as an acceptable option, one will be selected, which will then be feasible and attainable as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u245	Mr. Luka Moon, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Excuse me, Mr Mesec, I would like to give the Minister of Environment and Space a word. Mrs. Irene Majcen, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for including me in this response. It is true that at the Ministry of Environment and Space we are conducting procedures for the adoption of State spatial plans. It is true that the management of procedures alone is not easy, it is difficult. It is also true that any placement of state investments later on encounters the disapproval of part of the population; and this has also happened in the placement of the third development axis. History takes us back to 2006, and in 2008 there were comparative variants in three corridors, and somehow it turns out that because of geological data, the G3 variant through Zasavje was stalled. If further procedures show that the local environment does not accept the proposed solution, as the Minister of Infrastructure has already said, any changes can be made at any stage or included in the preparation of the State Spatial Plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u247	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u248	Thank you. The Minister responds that there was a chosen route where Zasavje was also in mind to join Zasavje at the Wall Bridge. But for Trbovlje or in general for Zasavje such a trailer is practically useless. No one will drive across the Wall to Ljubljana because it would only make a circle. This, however, is because we are talking about one of the endangered regions here. There, due to the collapse of mining and also the thermal power plants in recent years, unemployment has skyrocketed, and thefts are dying. And if the third development axis overtakes them now, they're actually going to die out or they're going to become, like I said before, some kind of developmental appendix. I would therefore like to point out here that not only to judge some of the interests that currently exist, but to see how these 35,000 people living in Zasavje today help to launch a new development, as the national strategy defines, of national importance. And so I ask that I invite the Ministry to re-examine all the options, because if I understand correctly, you have not taken them all into account; and that we should discuss if a third development axis could go through Zasavje. That's my supplement to the answer. Is there any chance that the route would be redefined and that a third development axis through Zasavje could be brought down?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u249	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u250	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. As has already been said on my part and on the part of the Minister for Environment and Space, the current proposal has by no means been completed. Since, at the time of the public decomposition itself and even now, when written comments are coming, certain objections to the choice of variants have been expressed, we will be forced to consider other options. And if these other options prove more acceptable, we will also propose alternative solutions. I would also like to point out that, while we are looking for solutions for this third development axis, which will be placed in the middle of space as a two-passenger road connection, at this time until it is placed and then built, we must certainly do a lot more in the meantime to improve the existing road network. Here this government and our ministry are making intensive efforts to increase funds, to rebuild and maintain the existing network. The existing link between these places in Zasavje and the highway will, of course, be updated and improved to Ljubljana. A number of measures have already been taken and will continue to be taken. As it is said, we are working intensively to ensure that the links between these remote regions and the highway network improve as much as possible, of course, within the framework provided by the available budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u251	Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. As the Minister also says that the debate on where the middle part of the third development axis will take place is not yet over, I suggest that we also discuss the options available in the National Assembly. In doing so, I would particularly like to call for the possibility of going to the third development axis through Zasavje, because, as it is said, this is an endangered area, an industrial destabilized area, an area that is currently without serious development prospects. And one of the key issues for this region is to get a normal, good road connection, as this is a prerequisite for any further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u253	Luka Mesec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November 2016, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u254	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister Gasperšič, a little as a context, I would like to remind you of these statements over and over again, before your interpretation you said that you would resign if the second track did not start building before the end of next year. Last month, I asked you to resign because of the statement written in the Draft Budget for 2017, so that the financing of construction under the Public-Private Partnership will not start until 2019. You said on the committee that this came from another time and that it was obviously a lapsus; for the media later you said that the beginning of the construction could be delayed until 2019 if you were looking for classical private investors. And then you stressed that you want to include two companies, Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways in this public-private partnership. The minutes of the September session of the Hungarian and Slovenian delegations regarding Hungary's entry into the second track project were recently published. Hungary is demanding a minority share in Luka Koper. And from the reports of the Interdepartmental Working Group on the preparation of a set of forms of public-private partnership for the construction of the second track that we have acquired in the United Left, it is clear that Hungary has already requested this at the beginning of this year. So throughout the year, you did not tell Hungary whether you wanted or didn't want to tell them that Luke Koper's shares were not for sale, because what you've been constantly providing to the Slovenian public. In addition, it is clear from the same reports that, while you have checked interest in Hungary and in other countries, you have never checked the interest in cooperation with those who, according to your words, are the most involved or key at this time, namely Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways. In addition, at the time of the publication of the minutes of the meeting with Hungary, the statement was also published that Luka Koper was not involved in any agreement on the form of a public-private partnership, which I have also personally examined. On the side of Luke Koper, it was claimed that the newspaper statements were holding you. So I have four very simple questions: With whom are these discussions on the design of a public-private partnership model to finance a second track? Are the representatives of Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways involved in the discussions on the creation of a public-private partnership for this construction? What should be the financial contribution of these two state-owned enterprises in order to include only the state and these two companies? How do you intend to alienate any share in Luka Koper if you advocate that you cannot influence SDH, which is responsible for such decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u255	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u256	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. These questions, as you yourself have already said, have already been commented on in public and have already been answered in grave terms. Maybe all the details that you've put out at the end of the day haven't been there yet, but the direction is clear all the time. Since the fall of 2014, when I tried to reach or start a dialogue with the two presidents of the administration in my first train ride on the existing track, to work together to find a way to provide this financial structure to carry out this extremely difficult project, my efforts have been focused on this dialogue all along. However, as we have all been able to witness together, one of these participants in these arrangements somehow refused to cooperate and it has been stressed that this investment should only be financed from the budget; it has also been assisted by various other experts and we have not moved very far in two years. Finally, after all these events in the summer and with my interpellation, it has apparently matured the time that one additional effort is needed in this effort to find this agreement on possible cooperation. I can confirm that these talks are taking place together under the auspices of SDH, so that there are no powers here for me as Minister in breach. This, as it is said, is done in cooperation with SDH. I am counting on these arrangements to produce a result in a short time, so that we can then present something more concrete to the public and to all interested parties, so what solutions are we talking about? However, I must say that this is the solution to this cooperation with Slovenian private companies. If this agreement had not been reached, then we are in the classic public-private partnership where private investors are sought through a public tender. We know that this is far more difficult and far longer. I really hope and I am counting on you to fulfill my commitment to start building this project at the end of next year, to bring us all together here, both our key logistics companies, so that we can put the financial structure together. The financial structure itself has been mapped several times in the grave, and this oris remains the same. It is estimated that approximately EUR 400 million of capital investments should be provided, half of which will be provided by the Republic of Slovenia with the recapitalisation of 2TKK, half of which should be provided by other investors, i.e. both companies or possibly any other investor. Then, of course, 30% of co-financing by European funds, for which we will run on the call. Another invitation to tender has already been issued, another publication is expected, and we are expected to apply for both tenders. What then remains until the final investment value is covered by borrowing through the so-called EFSI mechanism, or sometimes they say the Juncker Fund. This is a financial structure, and in the context of these capital injections we expect the two companies to cooperate. Of course, there are still open doors for the cooperation of the neighbouring Republic of Hungary, which has expressed a very strong interest in participating in this project. On their part, it was expected that they would get some small share of the management, cooperation in Luka Koper. This was on their side a condition, not an offer from our side. If it turns out that Hungary's cooperation is to be included in the project, we will also discuss this way, which will be acceptable to us and to the Hungarian side.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u257	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u258	Thank you. The direction you are going to, of course, I like it if you insist on the cooperation of Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways. But there are open two issues that are crucial. When are you going to get in touch with Luca Koper and present this to them? If in some way you insist on trying to carry out such a project, it might take at least some extra effort, but not an excuse for that April 2014 ride. We also know that the project council was formed, but it met only twice and then nothing more. I think this dialogue is probably limping on all sides, not just unilaterally. And the other thing is, how will this affect these two societies? My assessment is that they're probably not capable of making some major investments. These 200 million should probably cover these two companies. How does this affect their existing investments, which they are obliged to carry out in accordance with the plan adopted? Then how is this relationship maintained? And one more thing is, what does this mean if, say, this cooperation does not occur? What does a Hungarian script mean? Are you then prepared to engage in negotiations and also to reflect on what Hungarians demand or expect in return, namely the minority share in Luka Koper and the participation of all Hungarian construction and logistics companies in the management and construction of the second track?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u259	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I'm going to say that it's too early to talk about all these details, and I really can't answer you as Minister of Infrastructure. How this will affect whether companies are able to cooperate, with any input and so on; these analyses, these proposals to the management of both companies, are being prepared jointly. We had two or three meetings at SDH, where we also met with the President of the administration of Luke Koper. In the meantime, meetings were held between the administrations. As we say, we expect the coordinated results of these analyses and a coordinated search for cooperation by both administrations to be presented to SDH and to us from the Ministry. Then we will see how these proposed options meet all the other conditions that we are still facing, that the solution does not affect the increase in public debt, that the solution meets the conditions for granting a concession for the construction of 2TKK, that the solution is also appropriate from the point of view of the acquisition of European funds. In short, all these matters will then have to be properly checked from all these points and on this basis the final form of cooperation, the most detailed model, defined and prepared. As it is said, if this proposed form does not meet or meet in any part of any of the work that I have mentioned, we will seek further solutions, as we say, through the cooperation of other investors. This cooperation with the Republic of Hungary would have a positive impact on some of these issues. We leave all this stuff open on the table for now. Indeed, the final decision will be taken on the basis of detailed analyses of the advantages and disadvantages of the individual solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u261	Mr Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u262	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary! When we talk about social policy in the Republic of Slovenia, as a Member and also as a citizen, I am concerned about the decline in the middle layer in Slovenia for meals and, on the other hand, the increasing equality of Slovenians and Slovenians in poverty, in misery. The minimum wage is intended to ensure a normal, decent life for every citizen and citizen. But I don't think that minimum wage has been guaranteed for quite some time. Of course there are several questions here why; but in my opinion the problem is mainly that it pays that work in Slovenia is too taxed, too burdensome. And the only way to fight poverty in Slovenia is to create new jobs. We have maybe two models here. The first model speaks of creating a more favourable business environment, i.e. lowering taxes, fighting bureaucracy, lifting bureaucratic barriers, of course also an environment that will attract foreign investment. Now, let's say we open up the possibility of Magne Steyr to invest in a factory in the municipality of Hoče-Slivnica. On the other hand, we also have a so-called subsidised model, which keeps people saying that they get something from the country; and once these subsidies are withdrawn, there are no results. In fact, it is only, in my opinion, temporary solutions, which have proved to be very ineffective to a large extent in Slovenia to date in the field of social and economic policy. Money's spent, jobs aren't left. I want to know: When will an establishment in the field of social policy take place in the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u263	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u264	Thank you for the broad question. We probably agree, Commissioner, that social policy in the country has some function of redistribution and is linked to other policies: economic, active employment policy and others. In your speech, however, you addressed the issue of social policy and the link between social policy and the decline of the medium layer. While I find it difficult to see the link between social policy and the collapse of the medium layer, social policy only reshapes creation in society. The basic function of social policy in society is to provide a secure network for all those who fail in the country. Then you raised the issue of taxation, administration and investment. All of this is not one of the categories under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. It is, however, because in the end you mentioned the subsidy policy, and you did not make it clear that you are thinking of an active employment policy, so that the subsidy policy can only be linked to active employment policies, which are within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs. However, once again, it is not about promoting the subsidy policy in general, but it is about active employment policy measures, as in all European Union countries, aimed at vulnerable people in the labour market, to increase or reduce their barriers to labour market integration. And if you look at the existing subsidy programmes, which you say are destroying the medium layer or I don't understand very well the questions. We are talking, for example, about the subsidy programme Employment me, where subsidies of between EUR 5 and EUR 7 000 for employment of at least 12 months are long-term unemployed and uneducated. Then you have a subsidy programme New option where a subsidy for employment of at least 12 months is EUR 5 000 for persons between 30 and 49 years of age who are registered at the institution from 6 to 12 months of age. And the second subsidy programme is the First Challenge, which is intended to employ at least 15 months under the age of 30 from Eastern Slovenia. In short, these are subsidy schemes which are not intended for companies but are intended for individuals who are long-term unemployed. Of course, general questions about economic and economic policy may be how, in what way a decision with the cost of doing all this is connected, but only social policy is difficult to bear responsibility for all that you have stated. However, I agree that this may be a matter of debate, but perhaps we could ask someone else this question. If you have a question about employment and the abolition of poverty, which you basically wanted to raise, because you asked the question: “... I will raise the question of employment and the elimination of poverty, especially of the part of the population that is active and living on the edge of poverty, but I will also focus on encouraging the employment of the unemployed.” If you'd like to ask me further, I'd be happy to give you the information.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u265	Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u266	Yes, the basic question I am raising today is when it will be worth working again in Slovenia. More and more citizens and citizens are also, of course, often when I hear a case, I think that those who do not work come in the month the same as those who do. Allow me to introduce you to the case. I was in the Rippers myself last week. And look at the case of a four-member family with two children. Parents who are not employed receive 875 euro of social assistance and a child allowance, subsidised rent, subsidised kindergarten and, of course, compulsory health insurance, which is covered by the municipality. We will come together at €1850 per month from public funds in full. The four-member family, in which both parents work for a minimum wage of €650, amounts to €1300 for both of them, a child allowance of €100 and a subsidised kindergarten, bringing both of them together with salaries and public funds of €2100. The difference between those who work and do not work is EUR 250 at the end. And of course, every citizen finally wonders why he would work if you weren't even stimulated or motivated to work if you were working practically for nothing. And I believe that in this country we must finally raise taxes, introduce bureaucratic barriers such as valuations, tax receipts and everything else. We politicians, however, think that we must stop treating citizens and citizens as criminals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u267	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u268	I will now try very well to answer this because, basically, I do not see the link between the question you asked me first, namely, where social policy undermines the medium layer, and now you have asked the question when it will be worth working on, and you state what the remuneration of individuals should be. I would like to remind you that the issue of remuneration, social benefits, of course, can also be a question of the medium layer and what it is, it can also be linked to what you had a recent debate on free lunches in the National Assembly. And if I'm not mistaken you were absolutely in the position that this free lunch should be dedicated and then you can answer the question you asked me. Because that allows the first three classes to get free and someone who will be in the fourth grade will spend a month losing 140 euros. So I ask that you are so much that in the context of all questions. Of course, things are interconnected and, of course, it is possible to say, when we want to please one side, we say one thing when we want and we have a problem on the other side, we respond differently. The fact is that the basic problem is the added value in the economy and the level of wages in the economy, because at the level of the average wage, it is necessary to have a minimum wage in this relationship and therefore a minimum income, which is the basis for calculating the financial assistance and the security allowance. And, of course, it is crucial for those who receive a cash social assistance of EUR 290, that is little, when the family receives the allowances is not so small anymore, but of course the difference between these 290 euros and the minimum wage that we have raised in this mandate, where we have eliminated the allowances and the minimum wage we are trying to coordinate and is about EUR 700 gross. The problem is the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia and that more than two thirds of employees receive a minimum wage below the average, which is not only connected, Member, with taxes, because we are not talking about the net, but rather about the gross amount, but the key problem is the added value in the economy, so how much added value are we creating, which is linked to the development potential of the economy. These are probably key issues, but they are all interconnected. However, social policy as such, of course, is not responsible for such questions, but, of course, it tries to distribute with redistribution what we create. However, it is based on some righteous criteria that these criteria of righteousness are accepted as widely as possible. I am sorry that when I listen to people living in distress on the one hand and on the other hand, we simply give too much so that people in this country are not worth doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u269	Mr Andrej Chuš, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that the instrument of the question of the question of the matter of question, oral, is a question to the Minister, but not that the Minister of State is here to answer and ask questions to me. However, I certainly believe and take the initiative to hold a debate on the Minister's response at the next meeting of the National Assembly, because I believe that we are often discussing some of the topics that are not touched at all, even today quite a few such questions have been raised. I think that there is a need to put new jobs, economic growth, and, of course, new jobs, among the priorities when we are also talking about the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u271	Mr Andrej Chuš, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 17 November 2016, in the framework of the votes. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 17 November 2016, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. Members and members of the Defence Committee shall be informed that a meeting of the committee shall begin in a large lounge in 15 minutes. I'm adjourning the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m.
