ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 38th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Marinka Levičar, Mrs Jelka Godec, Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Mrs Marija Bačič, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Dr Milan Brglez from 17:00 on, Mr. Franc Laj, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, Mr. Bojan Podkrashek, Mr. Janez Janša, Mr. Jožef Horvat, Mr. Jernej Vrtovac from 16:00 on, mag. Branislav Rajić, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, Mr Igor Zorčič, Dr. Franz Duck and Mr Roberto Battelli. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda for the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday 21 November 2016 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 51 Members and Members were present, 50 of them voted for and no one opposed. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recommends in relation to the social status of members of the Slovenian military. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 24 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tank, the first to sign. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, General Osterman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today's session is on a topic that is more topical from month to month. The disastrous social situation in the military in the SDS Group has been highlighted since the beginning of this government's mandate, when the trend of departures from the Slovenian Armed Forces has turned further down and the reasons for departures have become clearer and more resonant. The current social situation is a catastrophic and far-reaching proof of this is the number of recent departures from the Slovenian Armed Forces and the ratio of departures and arrivals despite the contrary claims of Minister Katičeva has not yet been stabilised. In the position put forward by the President of the State, Mr Pahor, it is stated that the Slovenian Army left 540 members in the year before. Members of the Slovenian Army, who work in military barracks in Celje and Maribor, describe the current situation as an exodus of employees in Austria due to low wages, making it difficult for them to survive themselves and family in a region where unemployment is high and is a multi-partner of soldiers without a job. More than 100 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as we have seen in the media, have received humanitarian aid in the form of the most basic means of survival. I dare say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, in the supply of migrants who have illegally crossed the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and in the meantime destroyed trains and other equipment and ingratitude of metal food, put undue effort, care and resources into their own citizens who wear on their working uniforms the symbols of a country that many of them do not allow for decent work any more worth of survival. About a thousand 200 employees in the Slovenian Army are classified around 20 pay grade. To give you a show: a beginner soldier in the 19th grade has 890 euros in gross wages or around 620 euros in net wages. A soldier in infantry with more than 10 years of experience is in the 21st pay grade and earns a little less than €700 net. Even for an economic migrant who is an asylum seeker, the government devotes more money a month than it does to pay a soldier, which is absurd. Due to wage policy at the Ministry of Defence, overtime is almost never paid. The area of defence is also concerned with the excessive timetable in public administration. Members receive overtime in the form of compensatory hours, which they then use during the week in accordance with the order of the superior. Unfortunately, baby diapers can't be paid with compensatory hours at the grocery store. Bisak’s claim that after 6 months of compensation hours, payments are now made is purely misleading, since the superiors are commanded that soldiers — except in extreme conditions — should use all hours before they fall after six months. Currently, in the Slovenian Army, despite additional deployments to the Mediterranean and Iraq, the number of members of missions abroad is decreasing, for example in Kosovo. The missions, which represented social corrections, are now becoming increasingly accessible, making the disaster situation in the Slovenian Army worse. In addition, the lack of money at the Ministry of Equipment, which would be safer and more war-friendly, contributes to poor social status. Soldiers are now buying backpacks, footwear, gloves, cold - weather clothes, and the like from low wages. During the migration crisis, a sad state of defence emerged when soldiers for crisis cases received decommissioning equipment for crowd control. We have been briefed on this by the members of the Defence Committee on the ground by both the members and the commanders. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that if the soldiers had higher wages, they would buy these safeguards themselves. In recent years, the Ministry of Defence has allocated more resources for advertising campaigns on radio, television, the Internet and elsewhere. It tells potential soldiers that it is honorable to work in the military, that it is full of challenges and personal satisfaction. What the ad doesn't show is the state of the military account 5 in the month. He also does not show a soldier who receives aid packages. He doesn't show a soldier who's never home for a lousy payday. Instead of spending millions of euros on advertising campaigns that obviously do not have a hook, the Ministry of Defence would rather spend money on raising the salaries of soldiers and paying overtime for each extra hour. In this way, many young boys or girls would rather join the army, as well as those who are already employed, doing their work better and with greater satisfaction. Despite the misleading statements made by the secretary of Bizjak and the minister of Katič's social dialogue between the unions and the ministry, discussions on how to register the working time of union workers cannot be part of social dialogue. Decisions between the government and trade unions have an impact on military wage policy, despite the fact that defence sector unions have not agreed on the substantive conclusion of the negotiations. Representatives of military unions have been unable to participate in formal and informal negotiations with the Government for almost a year and a half, which means that the possibility of any agreement between the Government and the soldiers is zero. The immediate involvement of trade unions in negotiations with the Government is needed, as solutions can only be negotiated in the interests of the defence sector, not only teachers and other employees in the public sector. The security situation in our immediate and distant surroundings is deteriorating from day to day. The situation is deteriorating in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Turkey, the Mediterranean, Africa and elsewhere. NATO's rapid intervention forces are being established, the allies are strengthening their presence in the Baltic, and the government is standing at the crossroads and does not regulate the basic conditions for the lives of soldiers who will have to defend us if the situation worsens. Not only is it because of the poor conditions that there are more departures from day to day and we can rightly ask ourselves whether, in the event of an armed conflict, General Staff Officers and Officers will defend us. Because if things go any further in this direction, which they are going to now, in a few years they will be the only ones working in the military, and the troops will be empty. Security is a good that cannot be brought about suddenly when crisis situations are at full swing. During a time of relative peace, it is necessary to train, equip, pay and prepare the army for battle. The poorly paid soldiers and low morals resulting from this greatly undermine the defence capabilities of the State, the Republic of Slovenia. The fight for a better social situation in the Slovenian Army should not be the fight of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but the government should sincerely strive for the best possible social situation in the military, not both in the Defence Committee and in the National Assembly, our calls and proposals for improving the situation are constantly rejected. During an interview on commercial television this week, the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, praised that his government and I had once again become a credible interlocutor in international relations and that our word meant something again. With less than 1% of the GDP earmarked for the military – and this army, which will obviously be overrun by Luxembourg and Malta in a few years – the fact is that if there is anything more under this government in NATO, this credibility will actually blow up quite quickly. Months ago, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia complied with the demands of police officers. She did this this week in the case of the doctors. Colleagues and colleagues, when do soldiers come in? The catastrophic situation in the Slovenian Army has been highlighted since the beginning of this government's mandate, and it seems that both the calls of the opposition and the professional public in the government do not depend. The money is available to the Government for all except for those who have been paid the worst and those who are willing to place their lives for the country, for its citizens and citizens at risk. Colleagues and colleagues! More than enough reasons are that we have proposed to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be held only with a debate, but unfortunately we will not break with the concrete conclusions adopted. The new year 2017 will be here in a good month. The minister said that some things would be settled by the end of December. By the end of December, we are also giving the Slovenian Democratic Party time to familiarise ourselves with the documents promised by the Minister and the documents currently being prepared. As I was aware, by the end of December we would have received the Defence Act. Well, how's that? Nor has there been any proposals for a meeting in the parliamentary groups, so it is likely that the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army will be no more. Even so, if we were to receive this law once in the future – if it is as a draft, it does not improve the situation in the Slovenian Army, but the current situation as it is is is legal. This is what we say, we do not look forward, we do not see forward, we go against all medium- and long-term programmes, and we apologize for the situation as it is. We are talking about defence budgets for the next two years. The following year, the military will receive a good 18 million euros more for a few boots, for a few combat uniforms. What about the equipment? What about everything else? Not only is the military failing morale because there is no stimulating wage policy in the military. Morale also declines because no equipment is needed because there is no modern equipment. Because when you talk to soldiers when they go on a mission abroad, one day after you go to coffee with them, you only hear what they saw, how their colleagues and colleagues from the Allied armies were armed, and they are ashamed to be represented abroad by such equipment. That's probably what the president of the government was thinking when he was talking about how we made a reputation abroad. In Styria another company will be opened, which company will hire a few hundred or thousands of people, and those who are now working for a miserable salary in the 72nd Brigade of the Slovenian Army will leave. There are more and more departures; not only those who receive poor salaries, but also those with high education, including those who have studied at elite military schools abroad. But if you have an elite military school abroad, five years as a lieutenant, you lead a platoon, logically you will go when someone offers you a thousand 500 euros net salary, because employers are aware of the experience of Slovenian Army officers, especially those who need a frame to speed up processes, etc. – they need a staff with excellent leadership experience. Our officers have this and they decide to leave the Slovenian Army. The Slovenian army is getting closer to what the Social Democrats once said: the borders of 5,000 members and members. If we were to add up those who could go to the field now, we'd get to the number 4,000 200, I doubt it. This has also proved to be true in the migration crisis, which we have made with recent efforts – I speak mainly in the human resources sense – as much as we have been able to handle as much as we have not felt for citizens and citizens, with the exception of those in Rigonca, where migrants have literally crossed the yard. You've probably all seen what Turkish President Erdogan said. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we going to do when we have an exodus of members and members of the Slovenian Army when this Islamist dictator opens the door and lets hundreds of thousands of migrants into Europe? Then we'll call the police for help, then we'll call the military. You've raised your wages to the police. That's right. They've been paid better than soldiers before. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time to do something else for members and members of the Slovenian Army. The fact that they are included in the salary system together with other civil servants is the anomaly that the members and members know most about. Not to go into the field because he gets that 80 cent allowance to stay home, he takes a hospital, he refers to the article as having little children, and that's why he doesn't go into the field. Why? Because he gets more at travel costs if he gets to work every day in one week than if it's one week on Milky Way or Poček. It's a real situation. Because if they're there, they don't get transportation supplements and other things, and eventually the salary is lower. These are the anomalies that, when I went to the Magnetograms, the Slovenian Democratic Party convened a meeting in January 2014, i.e. under the previous government. But yes, you have proven yourself in the case of police officers and doctors. Now we expect you to do the same with those who have the most miserable salaries, while at the same time the greatest responsibility for the security and defence of our country, our countries of the Republic of Slovenia. I look forward to the end of December when we can see what the Ministry has done. And I look forward to it in January and February when we propose recommendations to improve the situation again in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u3	The proposal for a recommendation is at the 43rd urgent session of 14. 11. 2016 treated the Defence Committee as a parent working body. Since the Committee did not adopt the recommendations at the end of the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Franz Breznik, a member of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Slovenian public! At its 43rd emergency meeting on 14 November 2016, the Defence Committee considered the proposal for a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the social situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank and published on the website of the National Assembly. On behalf of the proposaler, Mr Mahnič, President of the Committee, then stressed that the Members had already requested an extraordinary meeting in spring on the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as the situation in the field of defence has deteriorated significantly since 2009 when the President of the Government was precisely the current President of the Republic of Borut Pahor. At the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which began on 25 April 2016, the Supreme Commander of the Defence Forces, President of the Republic of Borut Pahor, was also invited to warn the National Assembly and Government that Slovenia must also take measures to improve the level of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces in order to improve international security conditions and tasks in NATO. Prior to the discussion at the meeting of the National Assembly, the Defence Committee rejected the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia to invite the Government National Assembly to provide an additional EUR 46 million for the Slovenian Army. The Ministry of Defence has thus been rejected as recommending that the Ministry of Defence prepare a strategic review of the defence and that the Ministry specify the establishment of a medium battalion fighting group with final operational capacity at least in 2018. Despite the warnings, therefore, those responsible do nothing to resolve the catastrophic situation in the Slovenian Army in any way. Representatives of military unions also point to some other anomalies that have been present in the Slovenian Army for a long time. The proposal reminds us that more than a thousand 200 employees in the Slovenian Army are classified under the 20th pay grade and that the average net salary of the initial soldier is €700 and that after 10 years it does not rise to more than €840 and that this time it has requested more than 100 soldiers from the Slovenian Army for humanitarian assistance, this year. The result of the current catastrophic situation in the Slovenian Army is also never a structural reform at the Ministry of Defence, which in the past two decades has been hired to generally reduce the state's unemployment, but not to serve as a support and development staff for the Slovenian Army. In presenting their written legal opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Dr. Samo Dijak, said that the Legislative and Legal Service noted that the first point of the recommendation in one part could have the content of the decision. With regard to points 2 and 3 of the Recommendation, they note that there are no indications to justify the adoption of these two points for the reasons for the convening of the Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly or in the explanation of the proposed Recommendation. The Legislative and Legal Service is of the opinion that the proposed recommendation in this part should be supplemented. Secretary of State, Mr Mag. Miloš Bizjak presented the government's written opinion: Savings measures and the resulting reduction of the defence budget. After 2010, they had an impact on the development of the planned capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces, on the implementation of the commitments undertaken under NATO and on the ability to carry out the statutory tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces. One of the consequences of the austerity measures is also reflected in the Slovenian Army. In its opinion on the proposal for a recommendation on the situation in the Slovenian Army, the RS Government has already stressed that changes in the wider security environment to which we have witnessed in the past period and the related need to deal effectively with security risks require the creation of comprehensive systemic solutions with the aim of ensuring an effective sustainable defence system that will ensure an adequate level of defence capacity of the country. In this context, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has implemented the following measures: the Ministry of Defence has already completed the Strategic Review of Defence, a revision of the basic normative documents of the defence system is being prepared, and in particular a new set of targets is being developed with the allies in NATO. The Committee further voted on all points of the proposal together and therefore did not adopt them. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 9 December 2009, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the social situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the home working body had been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u5	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u6	Your Honor! Already at the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 5 May this year, which addressed the situation in the Slovenian Army, I presented my position that the Government is aware that changes in the wider security environment require the development of comprehensive systemic solutions with the aim of ensuring an effective and sustainable defence system that will ensure an adequate level of defence capacity of the country. At that time, I stressed that the Ministry of Defence was working three ways in this context. First of all, a strategic defence review is being prepared. Secondly, a revision of the normative documents is being prepared, of which the proposal for a defence law is already under public scrutiny, while amendments to the Service Act in the Slovenian Army are being prepared. And thirdly, along with the allies, a new set of targets will be developed in NATO. In addition to this, I have stressed that halting the fall in defence expenditure and gradually increasing it is a goal to be pursued by the Government in the medium term and also covered by the medium-term defence programme for 2016-2020. Contrary to the statements made by the applicants of this extraordinary meeting, which state that those responsible do nothing, I can inform you of significant progress in all these areas. Of course, all the problems that have accumulated in the defence system cannot be solved immediately. The public financial framework and wage system in the public sector are also two important frameworks, including the Slovenian Armed Forces. Today, I can report, for the first time, that the Strategic Review of Defence 2016 is complete and that the proposed measures are in inter-departmental coordination. Based on analyses, which also cover the staffing area in the Slovenian Army, final findings were drawn up and proposals for measures to be forwarded to the Government in December. Secondly, with regard to the revision of normative documents; a public hearing was concluded on the proposal for a defence law and inter-departmental coordination. We also took note of the draft law before the summer, and some, including the SDS, held meetings on this subject. The new Service Act in the Slovenian Army is also ready and will be presented to the unions first on Thursday, as we want to further align certain solutions with them. Thirdly, in coordinating the new objectives of capacity, we are in the so-called third phase of defence planning when NATO's target capacities are being developed. In September, we adopted a formal proposal for objectives on the basis of which the analysis was carried out. Our response will be sent to NATO in early December and bilateral coordination will take place in Ljubljana in January. The government is also following the objective of halting the fall in defence expenditure and gradually increasing funds, as the budget for the next two years of the defence area gives priority. Funding increases by €22 million in 2017 and €22.8 million in the 2018 budget on the basis of the 2017 proposal, i.e. total of €67 million in two years. For the Slovenian Army, an additional 19 million will be provided in 2017 and an additional 18 million will be provided in 2018, amounting to EUR 55 million in two years. Increasing funding for the Slovenian Army will also affect the position of its members. In order to improve the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, concrete measures were implemented in 2016. In the field of human resources, measures have been taken to improve the state of completion of the Slovenian Armed Forces and to rejuvenate the structure. In the field of logistics, certain medical equipment, JRKBO equipment, unexploded ordnance equipment, 1200 war uniform sets, a thousand protective vests, hearing silencers, electronic communication equipment and drones with the construction of a module in a motorized battalion battle group. In the field of training, changes have been made in the field of shootings with the aim of enhancing shooting skills, activities are being carried out to support allied safeguards through exercises and collective training to increase interoperability. The average number of days of field training for a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces has increased and will exceed the standard criteria of 7 days in 2016. The proper regulation of the situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces is one of the objectives pursued by the Government in regulating the situation in the Slovenian Army. The reform of the system legislation in the defence field is planned to upgrade existing solutions in relation to the situation of members, in particular in those areas where certain shortcomings have been identified and where it has been found that certain specificities such as the conclusion of fixed-term contracts, rights at the age of 45, restrictions and prohibitions and the like have not been adequately addressed and are not acting in a stimulating manner in the Slovenian military. I have also repeatedly stressed that the regulation of the appropriate status of soldiers is one of the conditions for the human resources completion and consolidation of the Slovenian Army. If, years ago, the Service Act in the Slovenian Army managed to achieve positive effects in the acquisition and award of personnel, the subsequent financial crisis has virtually destroyed them. Restricts on emplacements, travel costs, contract extension awards, contractual reserve awards and military service members, which were mainly introduced in 2012, have left profound consequences in all the structures of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which can only be phased out gradually. At the same time, it must again be said that the social situation of soldiers is not determined only by wages, although this is the most important element. The military profession is demanding and specific. I agree with all those who claim that the situation of soldiers is not adequately regulated, but I would like to point out that, on the other hand, the social situation of soldiers is as poor as the social situation of all those civil servants with comparable or lower levels of education. This is due to low wages in the single pay system. The average salary of the soldiers was 1.085.30 euros gross or 750.53 net in the first half of 2016. Otherwise, the average wage in the Slovenian Army is 1,726.68 euros gross or 1,126.89 net. None of the soldiers receive a minimum wage and receive it from civilians in the Slovenian Army in group J. The number of members classified below the 20th wage class is currently 227 and not a thousand 200, as stated in the proposaler's request. The number of members on the minimum wage below the 15th grade varies between 81 and 93. We have already implemented several measures within the existing legislation to improve wages and consequently increase the stimuli of the military profession. Thus, the payment of the supplement under Article 59 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army has been aligned with the legal provisions. The volume of payment of this supplement has jumped to 4.5 million this year due to the change in payment and the migration crisis from one million in 2015. It is received, inter alia, by all members involved in assisting the police in managing the migration problem. We also conclude employment contracts for a period of 10 years. We pay the prizes both for the conclusion of the contract – for 10 years 5 average wages and for 5 years 1 average salary – as well as for its extension. In the Slovenian Army it has been since 1. 3. 2016 pay certain overtimees and working hours which are not used by members during the 6-month reference period. This year's payroll in the Slovenian Army is higher than 17 million euros in the previous year, taking into account military engagement in migration issues. Of course, the increase in wages immediately raises the issue of the relationship with operating costs and investments. With regard to the regulation of the salaries of comparable professional groups, the Government is 3. 6. This year, taking into account the strike agreement between the Government, the Police Union and the Police Union, the Interdepartmental Working Group appointed an interdepartmental working group to prepare a report on comparable police posts with financial implications and proposals for solutions to eliminate salary abnormalities. In this context, the jobs of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces have also been addressed. The government has imposed on the Interdepartmental Working Group to address the evaluation abnormalities and titles in the public sector's pay system to address the findings of the report and submit a final report to the Government by the end of this year. We strive to align the pay grade of the Slovenian Armed Forces with the new pay grade of the police after the strike agreement has been concluded and in view of the amendment of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. Yesterday, we tabled an amendment to the Regulation on the classification of formational duties and titles in the Slovenian Army into wage classes where an increase in salaries for military personnel is proposed for two wage classes to the rank of captains, which will have an impact on the salary of EUR 7.8 million per year. This would ensure the comparability established in 2007 and 2008 with the police. I regret any case where any citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, because of his social situation, has to resort to humanitarian organisations for assistance. It seems particularly unacceptable to me that such assistance is forced to serve full-time employees, including employees in the Slovenian Army. Of course, in each system, individuals can be found on the social side for various reasons, which often are not directly affected by the employer. Despite repeated explanations, in connection with the distribution of social assistance by Karitas Vojska vicariat, general information is provided in the material of the applicants, which tries to create the impression that almost all soldiers receive Karitas packages, which is not true. According to Karitas Military Vicariat in the Slovenian Army, their assistance receives about 100 individuals and families who are in financial distress because of the longer hospital stock, members whose partner lost their job, members who have a family number, four or more children, families affected by natural disasters, civilians employed in the Slovenian Army with guaranteed personal income and some pensioners. Allow me to briefly touch on the social dialogue with the unions. The procedure for obtaining and examining the opinion of representative trade unions in the defence field is governed by Article 100b of the Defence Act, paragraph 4 of which states: "If, by law or collective agreement or contract between the Ministry and the representative trade union, the Minister is required to obtain the opinion of the representative trade union before the decision is taken, he must send a proposal for a decision or act to the trade union and set a reasonable time limit for the drafting of an opinion which shall not normally be less than 15 days. If the Minister fails to bring the proposal into line with the union's opinion, he may take an uncoordinated decision, but he must explain in writing the reasons why the union's opinion has not been taken into account and inform the union accordingly." A similar procedure for obtaining an opinion is also governed by Article 26 of the Law on Public Servants. Also, the contracts concluded between the Ministry and the unions do not give rise to any different obligations of the Ministry. At the Ministry of Defence, in coordinating regulations and other acts, we take into full account the provision of Article 100b, paragraph 4, which provides a framework for the conduct of social dialogue in the adoption of regulations in the defence field and is therefore unnecessary. At the same time, it should be added that neither Article 26 of the Law on Public Servants provides for the right to collective bargaining in the defence field. In preparing the new Defence Act, we first presented the proposal to the unions and began to coordinate with them. The same will be true with the new Service Act in the Slovenian Army, when we first invited the unions on Thursday next week to present new solutions to them and we will try to reconcile them to the best possible extent. Unfortunately, some of them rather point out formal, procedural reasons instead of substantive requirements and the coordination of certain important rules, such as the previous amendment to the Slovenian Army's wage regulation, are not even involved. And if I touch on the proposal to draft a law on the elimination of harmful consequences, our opinion remains unchanged. The recommendation is inadmissible in relation to case law. Neither the Defence Act nor the Pension and Disability Insurance Act provide for compulsory retirement in the defence field, but only an end to the employment relationship in the defence area, which is a significant difference. However, each individual may decide whether or not he or she will retire in a professional way. That, in specific cases, it is not an illegal and unconstitutional dismissal of military personnel, the case law also confirms. It should also be noted that the Constitutional Court, in its constitutional assessment proceedings, has found that the union's proposer has not demonstrated the conditions of threat to the rights of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which has led to the rejection of both requests. With the 2015 novel ZPIZ, we have also decided on the vocational pension that was established in 2012 to change our proposal and to compare retirement with other comparable professions. And in the end, let me finish. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that, in view of the activities we are already carrying out, the proposed recommendation is unnecessary or in the work relating to the preparation of a proposal for a law on the elimination of harmful consequences, in their view, illegal and unconstitutionally dismissed military personnel are unacceptable and rejected. I welcome every debate that goes on to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army in the defence system in order to improve the situation of members and members of the Slovenian Army. But I certainly expect it also after we consider concrete solutions when we are given the opportunity to co-form individual articles, constructive cooperation, as today at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u8	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! The fundamental question is, do we want the Slovenian Army, or do we need it? If the answer is positive, then it is clear that our soldiers need to be properly dressed, worn, armed and provided with appropriate training and, in the end, paid. Otherwise, if we do not want to do this, if you feel that the Slovenian Army is not necessary, then it is better to stop it immediately, because it is not fair to soldiers and it is not worth it that members of the Slovenian Army walk around with torn uniforms, with shoes of poor quality, without ammunition and also with families worth living and go to Karitas and Red Cross. If our assessment is at least an assessment of the New Slovenia Group is that the Slovenian Army is still needed, then it should also be provided with adequate funds. [[…]] However, some seem to express this desire only in words but not in actions and in such an inappropriate, vague way as to eliminate it. If you take someone’s resources to develop, you will destroy this organization in a long time and thus shut it down. If this is the wish of those who decide on the finances today, then it would be better to make these things clear directly and say so. There were already cases in Slovenian history when individuals and NGOs stood up for Slovenia without an army. If this is your final goal, then it is fair, I think, to say these things clearly and out loud, but not to try to do so de facto or in practice by taking funds from the military or not providing it with adequate funds. Too often, we regret soldiers and soldiers only when we are affected by natural disasters and when we are excited about their help at home or abroad, let it be a purely basic filling of floodbags, cleaning mud after floods, or repairing our stomachs. Why would someone choose to become a member of the Slovenian Army? According to our assessment, these are three main reasons and three key criteria. One is patriotism, the other is social security, and the third is the excitement of this profession. Unfortunately, this Slovenian army will not be able to function for long at home. This tank has already cleared well and goes to the last of the last atoms, or volatile fuels. Second segment, social security. If any former country felt that military employment was extremely safe – perhaps even in the 1990s, employment seemed at least from a social point of view in the Slovenian Army – today the matter was reversed. Soldiers who are employed in the Slovenian Army sometimes do not even have basic social security. If I touch another third reason why individuals choose to become Slovenian soldiers, excitement. It would be hard to say anything concrete here because there is virtually no equipment, no training, no obsolete equipment so the soldiers could see a great opportunity here. Compared to other armies, this is a complete difference. Sometimes it turns to someone in the stomach, why in this House we talk so often about the situation in the Slovenian Army, why we constantly point out why it is necessary, whether it is just blacking or painting the negative image of the Slovenian Army. If you talk to individuals who are part of the Slovenian Army, they say that at the moment the system is at the bottom and that these matters need to be discussed, because if we continue to remain silent, then there will be no change. And it began this February, when we began to talk on our initiative about increasing the defence budget – certainly a timely moment, long before the adoption of the state budget for 2017 and 2018. And the sad profit of all these efforts, all of these meetings, is that in a declaration, in principle, we all agree that more resources must be provided for the Slovenian Army or for the defence budget. But when we get to the point where we should also confirm it with votes for, the coalition hands shake. They tremble in the sense that they fail to provide adequate resources for the defence of the budget, not for those wanted by the opposition, but for those required by the profession. The Chief of the Slovenian General Staff has come to Parliament and has sent a number of EUR 46 million to Parliament, which is necessary for us to bring only the existing systems of the Slovenian Armed Forces into operation without further substantive upgrading and upgrading of this system. And if anything, then at least that is what we would expect of the coalition Members – and in New Slovenia we absolutely expected – to follow at least these instructions or recommendations of the profession. Because this is the case: if we let the system fail for a very long time, it is not being renewed, it is not being trained, then the damage is much greater than if we do things from the side. At least as far as finance is concerned, it is clear that a lot of words have been said in this House. Even the President of the Republic as Commander-in-Chief has come to this House and said that as it has been so far, it is no longer going. I have also said several times on behalf of the Member's Squire, and even today, the Group of Members claims that we do not want to be a court and find the culprit who is responsible for this situation, because it is clear that we are all responsible for this, all of us sitting in this house. Of course, today we have a variety of options that we can also remedy and correct this situation. If we put it all together in the context of the last elections in America, when future or already elected President Trump said that Europe would have to take more care of its security, this message, which must be taken care of in Europe, and in Slovenia in particular, which we are devoting very low resources to the defence budget. Because our allies have told us there will be a time when responsibility will have to be taken, and it is not even fair for some to pay for common security, while others we are just free companions or beneficiaries of this common security. If you look at the structure of our defence budget, I think we are among the last or not, I know that we are among the last – at least among those who have the most unpleasant, if you want, the structure of defence budgets, because at least within NATO it should be considered that 50% of the defence budget for wages, 30% for action and 20% for development. In Slovenia, however, 80% are wages, 19% are operating and 1% are investing. And we devote less than a percentage of GDP to the defence budget. And this does not change substantially in budgets 2017, 2018 – despite the commitments we have made to our allies. Despite their commitments, these things don't change. Even the countries with which we can compare ourselves both by the number of inhabitants and by what historical context we compare — the Baltic States, some Eastern European countries — are increasing this thing, this thing is increasing. And we come into such an interesting, sometimes schizophrenic situation, as far as our defence budget is concerned, when we have in this House some extremely aggressive criticisms of NATO and also of America, and on the other hand these same people are not prepared to confirm or provide more resources so that Slovenia can obviously provide for their own security. So I am returning to that starting point: if the desire of some in this house is to abolish the Slovenian Army, then these things must be clearly said, it is also a political decision, not a smoldering of soldiers and the entire Slovenian Army in the sense that they live on the edge and that you do not provide them with as much resources as was required and urgently necessary for the normal functioning of the existing systems. What is the career path of members of the Slovenian Army? This should enable the preparation and implementation of an appropriate system for the overall development of a member. The career path system should be built in such a way that it is comparable to the other defence forces of NATO allies. To achieve this objective, of course, it is necessary to define the fundamental elements and procedures that will define the human resources development process, and this should be very clear and transparent. Above all, Slovenian soldiers must have the opportunity to develop, to progress and also to have adequate responsibilities and responsibilities. Above all, those who are good at their work, and not those who are sympathetic to this or that political option, must make progress in such a system. One thing that's going to hit us hard in the years to come, and we're going to get a headache, is what happens to soldiers after 45 years of age. Today and in these days, we are primarily dealing with their salaries, which are inadequate and too low. Over the next two, three, four years, we're going to face a new big problem of what happened to soldiers after 45 years of age. The General Staff has already issued some forecasts, or I will make very precise calculations of the dynamics of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who will be 45 years old and will no longer be allowed to carry out a military profession under the current legislation. In New Slovenia, it seems unacceptable for us to place a fixed limitation on age, but it should be limited to the military's skills and ability. That is why, at least in New Slovenia, we want the Minister of Defence to take these facts into account in the preparation of the new Defence Act and to prepare our system today for the next three, four years, when we will face this problem of soldiers who will be added to the 45th year. It is incomprehensible that the Slovenian Army invests in education, in training soldiers and when it employs soldiers – it also makes some for prominent specialists in a particular area – and at the age of 45 it says to them, "Now, thank you very much, goodbye", and that at the same time there is no regulated system, what to do with these people – to put them on the road, to hire them in some other services in public administration. In short, there is no serious system that responds to these challenges that await us. However, I am sure that we should use the same system or vats as they apply to officers and officers. They can continue their career course even after 45 years of age, of course if they meet and meet certain standards that are set to enable them to perform this service. And if I now say very plastic and technically: I don't understand or it's difficult to understand the definition, fixed, administratively, that after 45 years the soldier should no longer serve his country. You may have someone at the age of 45 who is more psychologically prepared and qualified than someone at the age of 30 or even 25. This is entirely possible today. And this challenge, of course, will have to be answered very quickly. Given the changed security circumstances, it is also clear for Slovenia that we are nothing more than a bubble, a safety balloon, where we can see tragic and unpleasant images only on TV reports, but that unpleasant things can happen in Slovenia, unfortunately, sooner than later. One of these issues that has already touched us has been the migration crisis, and it is this migration crisis that can be repeated very quickly after all the information that has been known so far. And then the moment will come again when we need Slovenian soldiers, properly trained and well motivated. And I am particularly concerned by motivation and also by competence, given that in recent years, five, six years have been the most severe and the most declining training and maintenance. In New Slovenia, therefore, we want the Minister of Defence to find this political power, or to find a broader political consensus within the coalition, that it is necessary to take better care of soldiers and soldiers, that their salaries also need to be improved. If this is possible with police officers, if this is possible with doctors, then this should be possible with soldiers. If the government has opened this Pandora's box, then it must also face these consequences, because it is impossible for people to explain how it is for some, but for others it is not. I'm sure this will be a great challenge for the Minister. And, as the Minister says, she's an optimist and a fighter, and I hope, even though I am in the opposition, that she will succeed at this point and that the situation will improve. So that maybe we can do better, we can follow up in the coming months. In her opening remarks, the Minister said some things that she estimated would improve the situation. We will see if this will really happen, especially if we follow the whole situation very closely. In any case, you can count that at least in the opposition we will not despair that the Minister and her entire government coalition will again and again be alerted to the situation in the Slovenian Army. But let me warn you right now, let's not be surprised why we have these themes, why we have these urgent board meetings, the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly all the time. It's not the opposition's problem, it's the coalition's problem. The problem is because we all know that problems, that things need to be improved, are being solved, but there are no concrete actions. And when concrete action comes, then the reasons for such meetings and discussions will be extinguished. I want you to succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u9	Mr Marjan Dolinšek has the floor, he will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u10	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greeting, distinguished minister, respected chief of general staff, colleague and colleague! Today's extraordinary meeting is another in a series of discussions on the Slovenian Army. The latter, thanks to the SDS Group, which has occasionally been joined by Nova Slovenije, have grown into a permanent agenda item. In the last year, the focus of these discussions has moved from the readiness of the Slovenian Defence Service to the social position of its members and members. In a good month, this is the third debate on this subject, which we can say at this moment, that it will not have an epilogue, at least not the one that the applicants of this extraordinary meeting would like, since the Defence Committee has completely rejected the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as unnecessary and at individual points inappropriate. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, no matter what, we prepare ourselves carefully for each discussion and try to participate constructively in it. At today's extraordinary meeting, we will also urgently repeat the arguments already made in the debate at the above-mentioned meetings of the Defence Committee, on the basis of which we have been able to conclude that the Government is aware of the open issues that also affect the situation of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and is also dealing with them. The only but not insignificant added value that we have been promising since today's plenary debate is that the arguments, explanations and information will reach the general public and the members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces most directly concerned. When we discuss the situation of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, we cannot escape the negative impact of the austerity measures which began to take place after 2009. Today, we can rightly question the intolerable ease of taking resources from the defence sector to address the financial crisis. However, if we are to leave the past behind, then we must point to the undeniable fact that during the government time Dr. Mir Cerar for the first time since 2010, the nominal fall in defence expenditure has stopped. Since the defence budget fell by 40 % between 2010 and 2015, defence funds have started to increase since 2015. For 2017, there is an increase of more than 22 million available resources for the Ministry of Defence, and 16 % more resources are provided for the security sector for 2017. More resources will be available for the implementation of the defence policy from 2018, when an additional €22.8 million will be available more than with the 2017 budget. As the Government again provides in its response to the proposed recommendation, the increase in funding for defence will improve the situation of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. First, it will reflect indirectly, through the purchase of new equipment and better maintenance of existing equipment. At the same time, by increasing the available resources, the fundamental normative basis is also changing in the defence field. We see the preparation of a new Defence Act already in public debate in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, and above all the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, as an ideal opportunity to remedy the already identified deficiencies and anomalies in military service. In doing so, we believe in an open dialogue and the ability to negotiate between the Ministry and trade unions from the defence area, which will benefit the Slovenian Army and all its members and members. While we Members are certainly sent to closely monitor the situation in the Slovenian Army and through legislative activities, we will do our utmost to improve the position of members and members of the Slovenian Army, and common sense tells us that politics must not interfere with the military. Responsibilities to what has been said and done also apply to the contrary. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are concerned about the claims made by some trade union representatives from the defence area that government representatives should deceive members and members of the Slovenian Army and hinder them from accessing their rights. We are also negatively surprised at the announced activities that would damage the external political reputation of the Republic of Slovenia. We are therefore also using today's debate to appeal to the rational functioning of all stakeholders in order to work together to find the best possible solutions. This is what members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces expect of us and all our citizens in whose service we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u11	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. It will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u12	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, the Secretary of State, the Commissioner, the colleagues of the unionists on the balcony, the citizens and the citizens and, of course, to all of you, I gather in the Chamber. The late Jarko Petan wrote: "If the state commits sins, its citizens obey." Many in this country warn that, as it is now, there is no longer any way forward and that the path of this coalition or government is completely flawed. Missed also in the field of the Slovenian Army and Slovenian soldier. The Slovenian army is actually another second-class topic for this government. Not only are we reminded of this by a number of people who know the situation and the unions, but we are also being approached by soldiers themselves and their families. Many letters come to our e - mail addresses, many requests, and few calls. In doing so, I would like to remind the President of the State and the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, Borut Pahor, who stated in his statement this year's assessment of the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces: "Looking at the report presented, as Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, I am obliged to report to the public that the Slovenian Army is at the lowest level of operational capability." The key factors on the basis of which the assessment is made are: the staffing perfection of the units, the state of the equipment and its availability, and the possible range of training. The report assesses preparedness for action in peace with an average assessment sufficient, while the average assessment for preparedness for action in the crisis or in the war is assessed with insufficient assessment. Respectable, I repeat, under-rated in times of crisis! It should be noted that this is an assessment of the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces in times of major security risks, including our country. This is the time when additional powers have to be granted to the Slovenian Army by amending or supplementing the Article of the Defence Act. It is a time when, like Slovenian police officers, much more is expected of soldiers than any other. On the occasion of this year's assessment of the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the President of the State also stated that there is a clear face for the Slovenian Armed Forces. These are mainly her members and members. He highlighted their professionalism, dedication and belongings and, above all, that they perform their task with excellence. In this place, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out very clearly to the President of the Republic of Slovenia that the Slovenian soldier and soldier is leaving the clear face and that the situation must be settled immediately, now, here and not once in the future, at a time when even these governments will no longer be in position. The fact is that the multi-annual breakdown of the SD in the defence sector has shown alarming results. And these are facts — things are getting worse and they're actually going in the direction of the system's breakdown. We could also say that everything is going according to the plans and wishes of the editor of the Youth Repovža, who was also one of the initiators of the petition. By the way, all the other editors of this newspaper were also instigators. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we have proposed recommendations that have been rejected by the Coalition on the Defence Committee of the Mother. The rejection of the recommendations, respected, was just another proof of the empty words of Prime Minister Mir Cerar, who, at the end of the middle of the interpretation of the work of the Government, pointed out that he wanted better cooperation with us. Let me point out just a few concrete facts why we have proposed this debate on the social situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and why there are still no concrete answers and solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation – this has already been exposed several times today – has deteriorated and worsened since 2009. Finally, it should be pointed out that the President of the Government was then the current President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor. This spring, the Coalition also rejected the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party and then New Slovenia to provide the Government with an additional EUR 46 million for the Slovenian Army. Additional funds were rejected by the coalition at a time when the government boasts that the economic situation in the country is improving. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, this rejection is understood as a total lack of interest in this government to improve the situation in the military, and that the military is actually leading the military through the system of death on rations. Let me remind you, Mr President, that we have spent so much money on the information cloud in the budget at the time this 46 million was to be provided. And you know, this information cloud is still only in the clouds. There is no money, even in 2015 more was spent than planned, and Slovenian soldiers heard where they are and what conditions they are operating in. Nor did the competent ministry begin to resolve the situation on the basis of the guidelines presented by the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, while it is required that the Slovenian soldier is motivated, that the Slovenian soldier is well prepared and that the Slovenian soldier does not disgrace our country in his own country and not least on international missions. Non-cooperation, respected minister, in key areas, is highlighted in key areas by housing unions. Two unions. They warn you that you are talking and you want to talk about things that are not so high-priority, while those key arrangements do not come to fruition. I'm also curious about the quality of clothes and shoes themselves. Do we have adequate checks, or have we done anything in this area to improve this quality? Who's called and responsible? For it is not only that the soldiers walk in pieces, but also that the equipment is capable. Also, Minister, what about, for example, the billed salaries for soldiers who have been deployed to the Baltic recently, and is it known and respected that they have a day off? I would like specific answers to that. Is it true that the mass of wages, respected, has increased in the civilian part of the defence force? Civil work, which is already so much and so at the prices of experts for about 50%. What about the mass of the salaries of Slovenian soldiers? Is it true that you did not know how to answer the question of financial resources in the Department of Defence? Or did you not know how much ammunition the Slovenian Armed Forces needed? And there was no such unification, at least at the time, not when they wanted you to. In short, the reasons for today's session are more than too much. All the red lights are on in the area of the Defense Department. The situation has never been worse. The situation literally shows whether the Minister doesn't want her team or doesn't care about the tasks and I demand this department. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as a opposition party, we will do everything in our power to change this situation and to eliminate the second-rate status of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We owe this to everyone – those in the service of the country as well as to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who expect us to ensure security in this country. And it is true, we will convene meetings, we will convene so many meetings and so many meetings, until the situation is resolved or improved. That is why I call on the coalition not to deal with how many meetings we have had, but, above all, what results are there after these meetings. Trade unions have pointed out that this is enough and that they also have some constitutional rights. And they do. We therefore expect, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, from this meeting at least concrete solutions, concrete proposals, unless some common sense has already prevailed in order to adopt those proposals for action that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, I completely reject the opinion of the Government, which has rejected one of the proposals in its explanation, if it is too close and similar to the union's opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u13	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u14	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Chief of Staff, Secretary of State! The position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the social situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces is as follows. With a proposal for a recommendation, proposers, including the Government and the Ministry, would order the preparation of a report on the social situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the adoption of measures to improve this situation. The material states that the situation in the Slovenian Army is catastrophic and that those responsible do nothing to improve. In the Desus Group, we generally agree with the proponents, we agree that we cannot be satisfied with the situation in the Slovenian Army, nor can some members of the Slovenian Army receive too low wages. We are also aware that some individuals who are employed in the Slovenian Army have found themselves in a very poor social situation due to low wages and other circumstances. The fact is, the funds for defence have been falling for years and years. It is also true that the crisis and the related austerity measures have had consequences both in the field of defence and in many other areas. It is not true, however, that those responsible have done nothing or are doing nothing to remedy the situation in the defence system and the Slovenian Army. A number of measures have been taken to improve this situation as well. Thus, among other things, the medium-term defence programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2016-2020 has been adopted, which defines as one of the most important objectives the cessation of the fall in defence expenditure or its gradual increase. This is already reflected directly in the Ministry of Defence's 2016 financial plan, as integral funds are increasing. Defence funds are also increasing in the 2017 and 2018 budgets by more than 20 million each year. Among the measures that will help to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army, however, we can also consider the envisaged revision of legislation. In preparation there is a new Defence Act, which is already under public scrutiny, and in the final phase there is also a new Service Act in the Slovenian Army. Specific measures have also been taken to address the consequences of austerity measures relating to salaries and other rights of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. For example, an allowance shall be paid to all its members involved in activities related to the migrant crisis. However, certain overtime and working hours are also paid. Thus, the Government and the Ministry are already implementing measures to improve the situation in this area. In the Desus Group, we did not support the recommendations on the Home Committee. We are confident that the measures already taken and those still in preparation will have an impact on the improvement of the situation in the Slovenian Army and the adoption of the recommendation will not be necessary. Otherwise, the Legislative and Legal Service notes that the applicants have not sufficiently substantiated the reasons for adopting the recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u15	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor. Let's move on. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u16	Thank you, Vice President. A few weeks ago, news was published that Sweden would reintroduce the recruitment system. She did not choose to do so because of a possible Russian threat, but because she simply cannot provide enough personnel with a professional army. The Swedish government will act in time, our government does not hope or think about it. But the facts are clear. Despite the sacrifice of soldiers and soldiers, the Slovenian Army is unable to carry out major defence operations. At the same time, the military is the country's largest employee of penitentiaries. Of course, those responsible will deny it. This definition will also sound foreign to many soldiers, but unfortunately it is true. Soldiers' employment has all the elements of their work: basic salaries are low, contracts of employment are concluded for a certain period of time, soldiers are already fired for a minor deterioration of health, soldiers have no right to strike or in peacetime, a soldier is the only public servant who knows in advance that he will not be able to retire in his place of employment. In short, it is an extremely flexible form of employment with extremely little social security. In the United Left, we constantly point out that both problems – the small defence capabilities of the military and the integrity of the soldiers – are linked to the same causes, which are the professionalization of the army and the membership of Slovenia in relation to NATO. In a society like ours, the interest in the military profession is simply too small to achieve a critical mass for serious armed forces. This does not apply only to Slovenia, but also to Sweden, Norway, Finland or Austria. Short for developed, socially oriented societies. On the other hand, the Slovenian Army is no longer a homogeneous armed force that could defend the country. It has become a set of units that can only function meaningfully within the larger NATO units. If we want an army that will not be its own purpose, it cannot be a fully professional army or an auxiliary force of NATO. Before I can identify myself as alternatives, I must identify myself to the current situation, particularly the social situation and labour rights of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Regardless of what will happen in the future with the Slovenian Army, all labour and social rights must be guaranteed to its members, and they must be ensured here and now. I mean the following: in times of peace, soldiers should have the same trade union rights as other civil servants. If the right to strike is limited to energy workers, doctors and others, without whom the company would stop immediately, then soldiers may have it, without which they would not, with all due respect, be able to do so. If all public servants have the opportunity to earn a pension in the public sector, then it should also be provided to soldiers and soldiers. This requires two measures. Instead of unconditionally quitting the service as soon as they are 45 years of age, they should be allowed to work for as long as they meet the psychophysical requirements of their job. Above all, a career plan should be drawn up for each soldier and soldier to enable them to re-engage in the public sector after the end of their military career. This should apply to all similar professions and soldiers should also have a certain choice. This means that they would not be forced to employ the worst paid jobs of civil servants in the military or in the most ungrateful professions, such as prison guards and the like. In particular, we must achieve that all public servants will be paid fairly so that jobs will not be under the 20th grade. If we want to provide soldiers and soldiers with the social situation that every working man in Slovenia deserves, we need significantly more money for soldiers. And these funds for 7,000,600 professional soldiers and elders, as envisaged by government plans, are probably not at all. For this we have two options: we can insist on the current path with some cosmetic adjustments, but we can reduce the professional composition naturally and replace it with a larger and cheaper spare composition. If the permanent composition were smaller, all its members and members could be given better status. The government insists stubbornly on the first scenario, in subjugation of NATO and in a fully professional army, and this leads to the playing of the Slovenian Army. Over the past five years, the permanent composition has been reduced by 560 members and members, mostly soldiers and soldiers. This happened at a time when unemployment exceeded the 1993 record and when interest in the military profession for economic reasons should be the highest. The fact that the situation is indeed critical also shows that last year only two members left the Slovenian Army due to the age of 45. This means that the real staffing problems of the Slovenian Army have not really started yet. Of course, we can react as the Government intends to: it will introduce some additional stimuli for the soldiers, it will send soldiers to the pointless NATO operations in Latvia to improve some of its profits, the government will share social security privileges, as our first man in NATO said, Brigadier Škerbinc. But the government doesn't have a lot of resources for these social security privileges. If she shares her privileges with only some groups, such as doctors and politicians themselves, she will quickly mine social peace. That's why this dead end is also from a purely pragmatic point of view. Above all, it is important to draw attention to the defensive function of the military. Let's say that the government with social security privileges would be able to increase the military's size to 7,000 600 instead of the current 6000 951 members, but what would it accomplish? These 7 thousand 600 people, still more than half of whom are elders and civilians, would still be insufficient to seriously deter military threats. And that's why the government should start thinking about plan B. Plan B is a small-scale army. Contrary to what our politicians are saying, the army is not obsolete; it currently has 64 countries, and not any one. Among them are those who take their defence very seriously while being known for their high civilisation standards. In these countries, recruitment is not a remnant of tradition, but a living practice. After all, both Swiss and Austrian nationals voted in favour of the 2013 referendums. Norway has introduced a military obligation for women this year. I can't go into detail here, so I'll only mention four amounts. In 2001, the average cost per recruiter was EUR 900 per year. Then the enrollment was 25 years free of charge, while the soldier received EUR 2 000 161 net of the current contractual reserve for each year. With an average salary of EUR 1,000 85, the annual expenditure for regular soldiers is at least EUR 17,000. That is why it is clear – the professional army creates a travesty, is expensive and does not guarantee the security of the state territory. Since everyone here likes to compare with Austria, I'll mention this comparison. Austria devotes only 1.1% of its public expenditure to its recruitment and neutral Bundesheer and 1.7% to Slovenia for its professional NATO army. Nobody's gonna tell me that Austria doesn't get much more for its money. In the end, I must reject the thesis that our bureaucrats in NATO and the SDS and also the NSI are spreading, the the thesis that other NATO members are paying for our security. This is total nonsense. Then there is no need to protect Slovenia, but rather to promote the interests of the large Western countries and, above all, their military industries. Slovenian citizens for NATO membership in various forms pay more than €46 million per year. Among other things, we are paying for the construction of Nate's seat in Brussels. And if anyone benefits from our NATO membership, it's certainly not us, but it's NATO himself. But our citizens – I think we should stress this – are not freemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u17	We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. I give my word to Mr. Franco Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u18	Vice President, thank you for your word. Also on my behalf a nice greeting to the Minister, the Secretary of State and the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces! In this house of democracy, as we like to call it, we have talked a lot about this issue and the subject at the home working body of the Defence Committee, and today this topic is also at the parliamentary session of the National Assembly. A lot of words have been said, and probably none of us here, who are following this debate and want to participate in the debate, will say anything essential new. Things will happen more and more, and in any case, those who support the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry's leadership will be the people, representatives of the people, who will also say a little bit more about this issue, of course, about the ruling side of the unpleasant. But we must always have a question about the social situation of Slovenia and the Slovenians in general. And this is, of course, very much linked to the issue of the social situation of those who are employed in our country's defence and security system. First of all, I will tell you that I have to agree with some of the proposals. And I agree that the social situation of members is one of the most pressing problems facing the defence system, as it is also linked to the human resources completion of the Slovenian Army. I fully agree with that. I also agree that security is a problem and that these problems are escalating mainly because of the wars in the Middle East and also in Central Africa. These wars cause migration and, of course, they did not happen past Slovenia. This migration took place across the territory of Slovenia through the so-called Balkan route. Now some estimate that at the time our system of defence, protection, security did not work as well as it should. My point is that it's the opposite. I estimate that security and security services in our country have performed a very important task at that time and that many Slovenes have not seen a migrant who was on this journey through Slovenia. But you know, then not only did this professional system play the most important role, in which Slovenian soldiers were also involved and the Ministry of Defence was also involved, but humanitarian organisations played a very important role, especially other volunteers who voluntarily participated in these activities. And this, personally as well as on behalf of our Group of Members, I must, of course, express great gratitude. And if necessary – according to some predictions this will almost happen, I think at this point in time it will be a little different – I invite them again if we need them to respond in this way as they have in the past. It is obvious that those responsible do nothing to remedy the situation, and this is simply and simply cannot be accepted. Here I am primarily referring to the retirement of soldiers, then to the problems involved in the negotiations. Yes, negotiations have been very difficult many times, and we have been able to read a lot around the negotiations lately. And if you're not into it, then the negotiations are very difficult. And I hope, the Ministry's representatives, are the most responsible to listen in these negotiations to enough soldiers, representatives of military unions, not just to listen and to hear them. If we do so, of course, so will they on the other hand, then we can come up with some common solutions in the future. However, I will be able to mention these common solutions a little later, but not much later. Now let's get to the point. Now, I don't know if I have the correct information, but from the information I heard about the secretary's pay phone, it's not like the soldiers would have a minimum wage. However, there are minimum wages for some who are employed in the Slovenian Army and who have this wage class J. But if you do not have a minimum wage, this does not mean that you cannot get to or across the social margin. But there are some other consequences that individuals, members, soldiers of the Slovenian Army can actually have. But now it is possible to mention this common wage system in the public sector. In recent days, there has been a lot of talk about salaries in the public sector, and here I also have one piece of information that rescuers, nurses are complaining that they have even lower wages than they have – I am comparing now with this topic that we are dealing with – lower wages than soldiers. And they said that some unions listen to their relatives, but they represent some other interests, and they leave them behind. I do not think that we have such unions in the Slovenian Army and in the Ministry to seek the interests of those who have essential positions or important positions in the Ministry or the Slovenian Army. The father of the single salary system in Slovenia was former Minister of Public Administration Gregor Virant. In one of the newspapers, he said that if one gets out of this system, then this system is over. In a way, I agree with that. But in a way, we also need to understand the soldiers who are working specifically for them within the system, and within the proposals of laws or two laws that we intend to adopt briefly in the National Assembly, we also find this possibility that boys will not think so much about staying in their unit, not going into the field because they get transport costs. One of the discussers mentioned this. In preparation is the new Defence Act, as well as the new Service Act in the Slovenian Army. I hope that we will find possible at least partial solutions here, I think in part that the unions will also be satisfied with these solutions. But it is true and very important that in this country we really need to talk. Now we are talking about the professionalism of the Slovenian Army, on the other hand someone offers, left some other form, such as we have already had in the past. I'm not defining myself right now. If I have a chance then, I will define myself, but I will say this: we must define ourselves to finance the Slovenian Army so that members within this Slovenian Army will also be satisfied. These relationships — a soldier, a deputy, an officer, then a number of services in the ministry and could still be listed — we have to say bob beans this time. We can do so much, we have so much cake, and we don't have it anymore. You know, the financial crisis in the Slovenian Army did not arise outside the general crisis we had in this country. Even some ministers who belonged to the right could not make a difference at the time because we cut everywhere. Things are changing today. Some predecessors have also warned that we are getting a little more pay for this system, and if we adopt new laws, then we will also be able to solve this problem more easily. You know, if someone asks me now as a person, in any case, I'd say I'd give the soldiers a bigger, more substantial salary. But on the other hand, we need to understand again that this cookie is as big as it is and that we need to cut it into several parts and give it as much as possible. We all know that in all areas we want to solve the issue and that we want to give more, but unfortunately we are not.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u19	Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Chief of General Staff, colleague and colleague! Of course, any debate concerning the social and material status of people is much broader than the one addressed to it. If we talked this way today not only about soldiers, but also about nurses, educators, employees in municipal companies and others, we would quickly find that material and social status framed horizontally all government policies, especially the situation in which the country is and the budget with which the state has it. The basic framework for the debate we have today must therefore also be the ability of the State to implement policies of promotion, support and modernisation. And this framework in reality is that the third largest cost under the budget is an interest on debt and that in the future two-year budget framework we will still be in a current debt debt deficit reduction of around €700 million, i.e. an increase in the total debt. And, of course, in the context of the experience that many countries have, what brings excessive long-term debt, we also need to act rationally and thoughtfully despite great desires and despite economic growth. Since the scenario allowed by Greece, both left and right governments, that due to its final and permanent debt at some point it was not possible to raise money from the ATM and that Greece is not yet sovereign in its territory, the responsible Slovenian governments simply cannot afford it. When we talk more about regulating the situation within the Slovenian Army – the material and social situation of soldiers and soldiers – it is, of course, the first question that concerns any government or old dilemma of butter or cannons; in today's situation – whether in the updating of equipment, technology and infrastructure or first in the preparation of a regulation that will provide higher salaries for soldiers and soldiers, in the preparation of the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which can provide the only suitable basis for the long-term improvement of the position of Slovenian soldiers and soldiers. Some governments, including the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, have opted for large purchases, some other governments, such as in the framework of the policy currently run by Minister Andrej Katič at the Ministry of Defence, but first to ensure that the situation of people who are a key part of the Slovenian Army is properly regulated. Because the updating of equipment itself will help little if the people who are destined for this equipment do not feel motivated enough, feel that they are not well paid enough or, God forbid, they leave with inadequate equipment on exercises and missions. Therefore, in some ways, what we have heard today from the Minister – and this is certainly worth supporting both coalition parties and opposition parties – I firmly believe that in the government procedure, the Regulation on the Classification of Formal Names is also in the wage classes that bring it to the existing situation where it is for IV. and V. level of education, which by the way is not a given fact in industry, can be expected in a short period of additional raise for two pay grade. It's not much, but it's a step forward. And in the framework of the capabilities that I spoke about earlier, it is indeed an extremely difficult move by the Ministry of Defence, which will provide the means for the implementation of the regulation, which will bring two additional wage classes to soldiers and soldiers, to ensure, within its existing budget and within the framework of the withdrawal provided, that it is also appropriate to allocate other important investments that await the Slovenian Army. And the key progress in the management of policies and policies within the Ministry of Defence is, of course, in its systematic and orderly manner, first through the raising of wage classes and essential also the improvement of the material and social situation of soldiers and soldiers, to improve the moral situation as well as the attractiveness of service in the Slovenian Army, after the Strategic Defence Review has also been approved and adopted, to set priorities in the infrastructure area, in the field of equipment, and then to invest in those systems that are not at the moment of priority. Because the minister understands, of course, that priority is first of all people, and that without people equipment of course fighting helps a little bit. And it is no coincidence that there is a significant nominal increase in the budget for defence and security in the Republic of Slovenia, although in tight fiscal conditions. In the coming two budgets, so nearly €60 million is allocated additional resources, which is more than in some governments that may have had even a better fiscal framework, although only temporarily. And what is not irrelevant; the government can raise funds for the Slovenian Army for 60 million, the Government can set up two additional wage classes, the Government can even take care of the material adequacy of the equipment, the material adequacy and the capacity of the infrastructure, but it cannot take care of all the circumstances that the Slovenian Army and Slovenian soldiers and soldiers have suffered in the last period. We are, of course, talking about the issue of the professions of pensions and the one-time rise in occupational pensions. If the majority of soldiers and soldiers had followed the recommendation of both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Equal Opportunities, the funds provided for professional pensions would have retained and thus used the potential and the opportunity created by the State to maintain such an existing framework to allow for a safe transition and to not lose everything after the end of their professional work until their retirement. That was one option. The possibility that Slovenian soldiers and soldiers had is, of course, to listen to another option. They could have decided to raise; the government as such had no influence after the court had decided that this could happen. What's the situation after that? On the one hand, we have a country that through the system of occupational pensions provides an adequate material and social status for soldiers, and on the other hand we have a resignation, voluntary to this system and a measure that will now bring two. Due to a single raise, this will be subject to taxation, through which more than half of these assets will be lost, which is, if we plasticly show, a framework of the cost of four years of accommodation for studies in the capital city of Ljubljana. This will be lost immediately. The next result will be that because of a single lift, many soldiers and soldiers will no longer be entitled to all the other transfers and mechanisms provided by the Republic of Slovenia to ensure that they have adequate social and material status – both soldiers and soldiers and their families. I am talking about state scholarships, which will be affected, over-census will make it impossible for many to access this scholarship, I am talking about monetary social assistance. Finally, we are also talking about the children's allowances that this government has just raised in order to improve the material and social status of people. And the move, which some have warmly recommended to Slovenian soldiers and soldiers, will destroy at one point a number of measures, numerous government, ministry maneuvers – both for defence and for work, family and social affairs – to improve and improve the appropriate level of social status of employees in the Slovenian Army, as well as wider. I am even more afraid that such a long-term manoeuvre may threaten the very existence of a system of professional insurance, which can happen and which is often the logic of conservative and neoliberal policies, and people will be left alone on their own. And this is totally contrary to what Minister Katičev and Minister Kopač Mrak both advocate, and with them the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who wants and has established appropriate support mechanisms. Of course, we would like more money in these support mechanisms. But again, with everything that has been going on in Slovenia over the past decade, we are facing a situation in which we will still be in debt for 700 million in the coming year. And we can meet all our wishes and demands today, but in two years' time we will not be able to provide them either to the smallest or to the minimum extent and people will be left alone. What is one of the more worrying reasons for the convening of this meeting and is irrelevant and should be addressed is, of course, the question why members of the Slovenian Armed Forces receive assistance from Karitas, the assistance provided by the Sovereign Maltese Knight Order within their mechanisms. Unfortunately, not only in Slovenia, even in Austria, even in Germany, but also where people get into trouble for such and other reasons. Not necessarily because they are underpaid in their place of employment; a disease comes along, a job loss comes along, and what we all often avoid in the debates — violence in the family, family breakdown, alcoholism happens, drug addiction happens. And all of this significantly affects both the ability of the family and the ability of the individual to ensure his own existence through work and through the real framework offered by the State for people to be above the threshold of poverty, not only to survive, but also to live a decent life. In view of today’s world day, it is also important to raise in the context only the issue of domestic violence. Not everyone or everyone in the National Assembly voted in favour of the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. And you won't believe it, often violence in the family is the reason that both parents can't work in the family. Alcoholism is often the reason why the resources available within the family for normal life are spent on everything else, only for a meal of children. And when we want to influence the level of this status of human life, namely the social part of human status, with the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, this assembly has not been able to vote with the support of all parliamentary groups. Fortunately, at least the largest opposition group at this point was not against it, but I am sorry that it did not support a measure that would in an important part, because it is the horizontality of regulating the social and material status of people in this country, help to make it better for soldiers and soldiers in the Slovenian Army and to make it easier to work. Of course, it is possible to agree with the proposaler's assessment that more needs to be done, and we all agree. It may be possible to agree with the many arguments put forward by the applicant. However, we find it difficult to accept simple criticism that we do not accept recommendations. Allow me to read just one paragraph in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which simply makes it impossible to support our recommendations because it notes that they are at least inappropriate if they are not already legal. With regard to the third point of the proposed recommendation, which refers to the Law on Public Servants, the Legislative and Legal Service therefore points out that Article 22, paragraph 3, provides that individual questions may be addressed differently for certain persons, including public defence and protection officials. Therefore, the Legislative and Legal Service considers that the second paragraph of this point is not in accordance with the applicable legislation in the work where the Government requires that it should harmonise before submitting the acts to the adoption of the rights with representative defence unions or that it is permissible to adopt only a coordinated act. This requirement, which is set out in point 3 of the Recommendation, would thus, in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, be inconsistent with paragraph 5 of Article 26 of the Civil Servants Act, as well as with paragraph 4 of Article 100b of the Defence Act, which contains certain safeguard mechanisms and, in the final phase, provide that certain acts may be adopted or adopted indirectly without being coordinated on the trade union side. We expect that we will adopt recommendations which the Legislative and Legal Service considers to be illegal, while ultimately implying that the Government can take decisions that are not taken in a social dialogue that are not in line with trade unions that have not been at least given to trade unions for discussion and evaluation. At least the Social Democrats, if not much of the coalition, of course we can't accept it. And let me conclude with the thesis that things are, of course, far from ideal. But the unemployment rate is declining in the country. A large number of funds were earmarked for active employment policies. Children's allowances were released. Thousands of scholarships were added to the deficit professions. It invests in internationalisation and opening up new markets. All of this has a significant impact on the social and material situation of citizens and citizens, including members and members of the Slovenian Army. And it is important that, in the context of this debate today, we also set up a regulation prepared by the Ministry of Defence, which raises the basic salary of soldiers and soldiers for two wage classes. Of course, it remains the task for comparable professions to regulate and pay in a comparable or equivalent manner — as was the agreement — to be publicly communicated and coordinated. When we have regulated or corrected the status of police officers and police officers, it is necessary and necessary to also regulate the status of employees in the Slovenian Army, including the status of firefighters and firefighters, including the status of law enforcement officers and police officers. And all of this will have a major impact on the situation we have today. All of this can significantly improve the position of Slovenian soldiers and soldiers. And the assessment that the Minister will do more in a good year and a half than is already a significant change in relation to policy management in the defence sector in the last ten years — in fact, if we take a realistic look at the framework, even budgetary and global — is not possible. And I look forward to it, and we also look forward to all the further meetings that colleague Mahnic has already announced in the introduction. Because, of course, many times when we over-wind the situation, many times when we discuss both government and other sectors of action, it will be easier to find the right solutions and answers for the future together. and I sincerely hope that we will know when the Minister will also bring the Defence Act, the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, to achieve consensus on it and that we will not break copies where we all agree that additional effort is needed. A lot of things were done, horizontal. I am not just talking about the work of the Ministry of Defence, I am talking about the work of the whole government – not this one, not one of the previous ones. And of course that's not a reason to rest, but it's a reason to keep working. At least on the part of the Social Democrats – and as far as I understand the debate, even more so – Minister Katičeva has our support for the continuation of the activity when we talk about the issue of the Defence Department and also broader security in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u21	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! I must say that it is interesting; given all these views that I have heard from both coalition and opposition parliamentary groups, I can draw something under the line. We all agree that the situation is not as it should be. We all agree that something has to be done, but nothing is done or done too slowly. I agree with what my colleague Skoberne said. What happens now? Will it be butter, or will it be cannons? We used to remember college when we had a quote from Goering saying, "We'll be powerful with cannons, we'll be fat with butter." The problem is, we're not fat or powerful. We don't have butter, we don't have guns. That's the main problem. Our army has no butter and no guns. We have soldiers who, if you're saying by the numbers I believe you have them and you're standing behind them, there's no soldiers under the 20th grade, but we can say that the soldiers are about the 20th grade. And that's what I said before in my position. Someone who's been working for 10 years has been paid 760 euros. I was talking about specific cases, the minister talked about average gross salaries, net salaries of soldiers and so on. We leave the group this time, but it is precisely the government of Mira Cerar that I think a year and a half before – now I do not know if Mrs Andreja Katič, or Mr Weber, was at the time – said that they were regulating the current case in a way that would further stimulate the professions that would belong to this J group. How does that work? I don't know. Given that there is no shortage of personnel only in the field of uniformed persons, but also elsewhere, it is obvious that this matter does not work. And the session that we have is due to some of the previous meetings and because nothing changes. I am pleased with the words of Minister Andreja Katič, who said – now she is no longer – that she will be in December but is now due December. [[…]] We will also see what happens in 14 days, in 3 weeks, when December 12th, when the bell will ring to the minister sitting where General Osterman is now, the Minister of Health. She also promised that everything would be in this house on December 12. At the end of December, the Minister of Defence will be ringing for her own words. But I say that I strongly doubt that the acts that have been promised to us or predicted I don't even know how to say it, whether it's a promise or not, because the Government of Mira Cerar often speaks by leaving things wide open with some adjective, especially with some additional verb. [[…]] But look, in a good month, it'll be New Year's Eve. In the second half of 2017, if the elections are held regularly, there will be an election campaign here. And that will be known in this national council. Think back then that there will be any reforms, any shifts in any changes we need. And it has been heard from the Minister, as I said before, but when these documents are submitted, he expects a constructive debate. Madam Minister, tell me what a constructive debate is for you if, in this mandate, if we take away the Police Act, which was recently adopted, you reject all the proposals we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party? If constructive cooperation is that someone comes to present the law to the parliamentary group, that we talk there and then that no proposal made by the parliamentary group is taken into account, this is not constructive cooperation for me. This cooperation is only in this direction to say, "We were there, we introduced them to the law, we presented to them the changes we are planning, they had some comments, we can say we were talking to everyone." But, colleagues and colleagues, just talking, unfortunately, isn't enough. Why is the Slovenian Army, if we can call it that, so on the soil of the National Assembly in the last two years? Because the security situation has deteriorated. Had there not been an annexation of Crimea, if there had been no attack on the eastern part of Ukraine, if there had been no growing problems in Transnistria, Abkhazia, South Ossetia, if there had been no more armed conflicts, which then generate migration in northern Africa, I am convinced that the military would continue to be able to continue to carry on both in the field of wage policy and equipment. And when I said before that there is no longer any question, whether butter or cannons, because we do not have butter or cannons – not only in the military, even elsewhere – I would like to remind you of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2017 and 2018, which you accepted. My colleague Skoberne said, "this minister has decided to take care of the people first." I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. But you need to know, because it was about what kind of other government she decided to buy the Patriage instead. Do you know why Janez Janša's first government bought the Patriage? Because then the soldiers were dressed and the shoes. There was no issue of inadequate equipment between 2004 and 2008. That's when the new guns, the assault rifles of the Slovenian Armed Forces F 2000S, just arrived. At the time he was the Warrior of the 21st century, which was provided for all members of the Slovenian Army, it is said, this basic equipment. They were boots, they were clothes, and so on. Back then, the basic equipment was not a question. But the question was, how are we going to modernise this army? And the patriarchy was bought because that was the decision of the previous government, because it was written in the strategic documents and because when we entered NATO, we said that we would contribute to the middle battalion fighting group. We were optimistic, we said, we're going to contribute two, we're not just going to buy 70, 60 floors as much as it takes for one battalion, but we're going to buy 135, we're going to give two battalions, that's then really a professional army. And how'd it go with the patriots, we know. The President of the Slovenian Democratic Party Janez Janša was harmed, the party was harmed, Slovenia was harmed, and in particular the Slovenian Army was harmed. Because if today we, ladies and gentlemen, had two battalions equipped with such vehicles – look, we would all be worshipping us, from Washington to the Baltic States. We would all worship because we would have fulfilled what we promised at the time. But today we don't have two or one, today we don't have one. As a result, that government was putting more money into modernisation and the equipment of the Slovenian Army – Pač was a time of conjunkture. In four years, the government of Janez Janša dedicated 200 million euros to the Slovenian Army. The average economic growth was then 5%. Yeah, because it was money, we could have made it. But we did not purpose to do so by borrowing ourselves; it was done to redistribute or redistribute those assets that were. And today we have the budget we have, and we could make a different allocation. But it's true that someone would get less. And when we proposed those additional €46 million with the amendments, we suggested where to take them. It's our vision of how to do the distribution, but you rule, you do the distribution. Yes, because you've also given the police a few 10 million euros more. And that's right, don't get me wrong, that's right. But also this money, this 70, 80, as much as you gave to the cops, you might as well put it somewhere else. Well, it depends on the priority, what the distribution is. And then, 2004-2008, the distribution was such that 200 million euros were spent here and weapons were bought. At that time, the assault rifle was changing, which had been adopted before. Ask members and senior officers about this F 2000S assault rifle what they think about it or what they thought when we got it and what they think today. We got a gun from the Belgians that was in a catastrophic state. This rifle is the product of Slovenian knowledge. We were the ones who upgraded that gun to the Belgians, and today it's really a rifle, so you can go somewhere with it. This is all the fruit of Slovenian knowledge. This is the fruit of Slovenian engineers, this is not the fruit of Belgians. They sold the basic model they sold us. The same was true of tanks T55 or today M-55 S. Knowledge of Slovenians, which is unfortunately preserved and currently useless, but this matter is to be changed. Few things would be needed – I think not even as much money as you gave to the police – to make it different in the Slovenian Army. To make it different in the area of wages, to make it different in the field of arms and equipment and to make it different in the field of firepower, where unfortunately we are falling. We agree, but in all these years we are just looking at what is happening to members and members of the Slovenian Army. Prior to this wage reform in 2008, soldiers and soldiers received 60% of the readiness allowance. At that time, for example, university professors received 10%. Then came the change, including the other changes; it was pointed out, too, that we were alerted when it happened to university professors and other comparable readiness professions from 10% to 20%, and the soldier fell from 60% to 20%. And that's how those with low wages get 80% of the cash to stand by. I'm sorry. The former Minister of Marble received 25, 26 000 euros – I don't know how many. Then that's the reality. And that's the comparability of professions. Imagine the professors – from whom I can say, a hat down, I respect them, and my mother is in this foho – but imagine their willingness and the willingness of someone who sleeps on the milk outside now that there are no degrees. And imagine 80 cents on each day of alert. And professors in a couple of years for 25,000 euros. Ready to go home, ready to go to work. This is a problem that still relates to social status. I have here many articles – that no one will tell me, I printed them only from the work of the Dnevnik – which talk about the situation in the Slovenian Army, especially in the social field. And this was already written in December 2015, when this well-known affair was with public sector supplements. And at that time, the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia was also activated; with the representatives of the European Commission, this union was talking and they found that the Ministry or Government was in breach of the European Working Time Directive, because time spent in the workplace or in a given place should be considered as regular working hours, so it is not a matter of typical willingness as other public servants do – it is said that there is a willingness both at work and at home to respond when the job is needed or that you are ready to come to work outside the regular working hours. Unfortunately, of all the debates we have in the last two years, because of the situation we have, we have not gone beyond the debate. We have not come any longer than the debates or are now approaching those months, the dates when we are supposed to get to the table of laws. But look, these laws won't solve the anomaly. That we also have an army that is not trained at the level that we should be, because soldiers on the ground say that they have young children at home and will stay home. These two laws, the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and the Defence Act will not solve the problem of hospital absences. Give me, Chief, tell me, but if not for today, let me know for last week how many hospital leavers were on average? So what's the readiness and the real number of the army we have in the barracks that we could call it now? And that's the problem. But if you go to see what those in the hospital are doing — those in Styria walk across the border to do harder and easier physical work. Not to play the system. I mean, we could say they're playing him in some way. But they're not playing him to go to some spa for the weekend to go to sea to buy a car. Playing is so they can survive. Not even yourself. My family. Previously, the minister said she's trying to show that the whole army is in Karitas. That's not true, that's not true! In our request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we accurately wrote that around 100 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces receive meritive assistance. Not those in the pay group J. Members and members of the Slovenian Army of the regular composition. Not that soldier, as I mentioned earlier, has been in the infantry for ten years and has 760 euros in wages. The soldier who has this salary and three young children, 12, 7 and 4 years of age and two years of unemployed wife. You, Madam Secretary. This is not pay group J, these are employees of the Slovenian Army, members of the permanent composition. Between the nineteenth and the twentieth classes, there are thirty euros. It is not for this reason to say that no member of the Slovenian Army has a salary of less than EUR 20. We probably all agree that there has been a lot of investment in the promotion of the military profession over the past two years. I mentioned earlier that it does not only help millions to get confused into this promotion, to show the equipment that we have, which we will have at best for three, four more years – the outdated equipment that we are "shooting" for that video. But the point here is not what people are most interested in. We can say that it is a profession of interest, because it is attractive because it presents a particular challenge. Under the line, the main factor pays. Because that's what you go to work to make money so you can live. Please put in these videos on Facebook and elsewhere the pay grade that will be obtained by the one who will sign the contract with the Slovenian Army when it ends with basic training in Vipava. Put that in there. Do not publish misleading recordings and promotions. A while ago, I was with Patricia Shulin, with our European Member at a working visit to the Railways. At the time was the promotion of the Slovenian Army in front of the municipality. Young people were interested, of course. There you had a parking lot, I think Cobra, some equipment – I think the rifle was also 12.7 mm calibre. And I asked the young, "Are you going to join the army? Are you interested?".. They said, "Yeah, we're interested, but pay is a problem." Pay's the problem. There's no stimulation here. I must say, I was very surprised today at the position of the United Left. It is also possible because he did not represent a member of the United Left, who is still in the Defence Committee, however. That's exactly what this is about. We don't have an army right now that we should have according to the documents. Let's sit together and talk about what kind of army we want, what kind of army we need. If the target is 5,000 — because with this money 8 thousand 500, as recorded in all the strategic documents, cannot be — let’s say that we will have 5,000. In Turkey, I was at the regular annual Assembly of the NATO Parliamentary Union for the weekend, I had the privilege of talking to a Dutch general – he knows Slovenia, he is now a senator – and he said to me, "You know, Jean, according to what country you have" – about size and according to everything he thought, of course, about politics and we didn't sell out – he said, "Look, you don't need some air force. If I had your army in my hands, what would I do?" What I've been saying for a while. He said, "you don't need a Navy, along with the police and with the military, do some coast guard and have that." Did he say, "what kind of planes? One maximum, two squadrons of combat helicopters and helicopters still needed for civilian protection. The professional core," he said, "if you no longer have the money for 8 thousand 500, do so in order to have between 4 and 5,000 members of the professional composition who will be trained in the nature of the ESD, special operations units, and around build a national guard" or whatever we will call it. A proposal similar to that made by us or the activation of the military strategic reserve, as we have written in the documents, to be implemented in practice, and this is it. That's a good thing to do. We should discuss this and make a calculation of how much this would cost us, especially to what extent we can achieve this within the framework of the funding given. The situation is getting worse. What could soon happen is that due to yesterday's vote in the European Parliament to freeze negotiations with Turkey, there will be a new migratory wave. In Turkey, when we were in Turkey, we were also addressed by Turkish President Erdogan, but in his arrogant dictatorial style, however. He said, "the countries you're sitting here today, you're supporters, many of you, terrorists. By arming the Kurds who fight against us, you support the terrorists." Who already gave the weapons to the Kurds? We do. We supported that, too, because we need to arm the Kurds. But what am I trying to say? An ally such as Turkey, which is currently some tampon zone between chaos and as normal a situation as it is, may soon lose the status of this tampon zone. Will the Greeks stop the migrants? Will the Macedonians be alone? No, no, no. They'll come to us. Who are we gonna call? The Slovenian army. And what are we gonna watch again? Cops eating hot meals in pubs and soldiers sitting in front of a tavern in a car eating a sandwich with a dry salad. What kind of stimulation is that? But these are the stories, ladies and gentlemen that have been rolling around on TV. These are stories that members and members of the Slovenian Army trusted us when we visited the field. It took them two weeks to get proper gloves. I don't know exactly the names, but I think there were seven of us, eight members of the Defence Committee. We went to the border and looked. Good boys and girls over there. But you know what they said? It's fine now, but the first 14 days was a disaster. After 3, 4 gloves per day had to be replaced. They've hurt themselves! And it's equipment, gloves; it's not a rifle, it's not a knife, it's gloves that you buy in Mercury for 10 Euros of quality. But I don't know what kind of army you gave them. Those surgeons, those at the pharmacy, those who are, I don't know what that material is. That's the situation, and that's unstimulating. And we have proposed recommendations in the area of financial resources, we have proposed recommendations in the field of arms and equipment, we have now proposed recommendations or have proposed them, which we have already discussed on the Defence Committee, in the area of social affairs. All rejected. When we talked about social issues, before the end of the meeting, we had to go to the lobby where we had a statement for Reflections. At that time, my esteemed colleague and I agreed that we would both support a decision imposing on the ministry or not giving support to what the minister said was now fighting to ensure that at least one of the lieutenants to the captain would receive two pay grade. The decision was rejected. And the conclusion was that the Defence Committee was supporting the Minister in his efforts to do so. And the decision was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only explain this in the light of political prestige. That something wouldn't have been accepted, which we don't remember. That something that we don't propose should not be accepted. Look, you really don't work that way. I know we have a coalition, an opposition. That we have different opinions, and that's the way it is. If we should all have the same opinion, then we do not need this House, we do not need democracy, we bring back a congregation where we will all agree on everything and just nod. We know these systems, we see how they work. It is Parliament's view that we are also fighting here. Where will you be if not in Parliament, where is the place to face different opinions? But if something is proposed by the Minister and she wants to be supported by the committee, but she is voting against it, then I really don't know where we are anymore. And so many negotiations, talking about these 7.9 million euros. Now I'm going to use the United Left vocabulary, but "when it was necessary to give 80 million euros for those who already have something, it's not a problem". This is the social policy of this government. This is the social policy of Minister of Finance Vraničar Erman and Prime Minister Mir Cerar. But it's like, "get tighter" to the point that it doesn't go any further, "go out and change your mind, then come back." I've got my own opinion on unions, too. We know what they're like. In our government, when all was well, when wages grew as employment grew, protests were organized that 30,000 of them were walking around Ljubljana. Today, when the situation is much worse, there is no one anywhere. I am also of the opinion that trade unions are the ones that hinder society's progress rather than contribute to it. But within this union movement we also have today on this balcony – and I welcome them – unions that cannot stop or contribute to the progress of Slovenia because they are toothless tigers, and these are trade unions dealing with the defence area. And that is why the situation is the same as it is because it constantly refers to a certain article of the law, to some opinions that they do not have the right to negotiate. And because they cannot or must not, because they are legally forbidden to organize sentences, the situation in the Slovenian Army is as it is. The Slovenian soldier can only be humiliated and quiet. But do you know what is the largest, and probably the only element of the sentence of the Slovenian soldier? That he quits. That he quits. And these cancellations and terminations were over 500 in 2015. It is said that more than 10% of the Slovenian Armed Forces staff have struck in the past year if I follow this parable. If you do not want to talk to the unions Because I see that there is also a problem if they are invited to the Defence Committee; I have made it clear that I will not invite trade unions to the Defence Committee, unless there are issues relating directly to the social, material position of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. [[…]] Those guys up there, they ain't got a chance to say shit. If I don't give them a chance to come here, they can't be heard. The media is ignoring them anyway, and perhaps sometimes Mr Novak will make a statement to Mr Lah, which is because this media apparatus has been successful in covering this leak, which is currently between members of the Slovenian Army and members of the Slovenian Army. When we get suggestions for someone to come forward and say something, he's not allowed in the Ministry. The target critic is the only person, the only person who has in recent years hoped to side with the soldiers and to say that this is no longer going forward, that the Slovenian Army is in an existential crisis, that the soldiers are unstimulated, that they are leaving and that something needs to be changed. And this is her commander, General Andrey Osterman. He's the only person who's been in this position in recent years hoping to speak publicly about the situation in the military. If you follow the meetings of the Defence Committee, it also always says the opposite position of the Ministry or the addition, which is not exactly bright. We always hear from Mr Bisak, "that's what we're fixing now, and that's what we're fixing now." You listen to unions, things don't get any better. Actions concerning the payment of overtime shall be brought on the basis of the judgment of the Supreme Court. How much longer are we gonna have to pay for that? You know, instead of all of this being arranged — that, not with some, would passi, but only acted as it did in the law, because the court has now told you how to interpret the law — the rest of the money that is then thrown into these procedures when things have to be paid would also be financed from that money and given something to improve the social status of the members and members. And the Chief of Staff is the one who always says, "The situation is that, the reasons for it are that, the soldiers are leaving." And that's the problem. And that's the problem. But there is nothing to be done that this problem would no longer exist and I am afraid, given the trends we have at the moment, that in one year we will have similar discussions again, that we will have to reopen the debate on the social situation of the soldiers there in the spring. Because even if you prepare that Service Act in the Slovenian Army, things will not change. For the best, I'm sure you don't. It is right to do what the Minister has said now, for these, if I have just heard the bad 8 million euros for the officers from Lieutenant to Captain. But I don't know if I've got the right idea whether that's true of those soldiers who have the lowest wages. Or if we are talking about the actions that will be done with the undershepherds, the corporals and the governors, it is said to be ordinary soldiers who have the rank, but not under officers or officers of the Slovenian Army. And one more thing. The money they paid in the amount they were told to pay, the members and the members to leave it there — because they did not use it to buy a car. Probably not. But for an easier transition, for at least those first fires, when they occur after that 45th year or those that are also the most ridiculous, that this was the main observation, as we called in the conclusions – forced forgiveness and so on. [[…]] But you know where the vocabulary is the problem, that means that the content of O.K. and when the content of O.K. is, they usually hang on the vocabulary, they use it to move on. Next time, in the coming years, there will be an exodus of those who reach the age of 45 when they need to be retired, we will only have a problem. But the solution is still out of the question. But if you're going to bury them under the government, give them some seats just to get rid of this problem, but, excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't solved this problem. We also said in the Slovenian Democratic Party, let us tell you about all these state buildings, how much money is being spent on Sintal and other companies to protect state and other buildings, instead of setting up a body — either within the police or elsewhere — where it would be possible for these people to go. This is some alternative solution that will be needed when we get to the numbers by a few hundred. So far, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u23	Mr. Jan Škoberne's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In an important part, of course, I agree with the proposaler's debate, but not in one small part, and I think it is important that I answer that question. Of course, constructiveness is extremely important and constructive, I can also understand that when today, with the support of Ambassador Mahnič, Slovenian Democratic Youth has proposed that students' organisations – even for reasons of imprudentness and corruption – be given 10% and given to the Youth Office for the purpose of financing the work of youth organisations – I absolutely support this, although we do not belong to the same ideological group and even though the amount and the mechanism itself would be different. However, in the absence of other proposals, it is of course important to support this and it is important to continue the discussion also where colleague Mahnic on the case at hand believes that this must be done by the Office of Youth and would put it on a single call and fund for youth organisations. But not essentially, the purpose has been achieved. And I sincerely hope that, even in the case of the Defence Act, the debate will take place in the same way and that we will not be able to coordinate and discuss the recommendations when we already have the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, that they may be illegal, or that they go in an important and fundamental part completely contrary to what is our basic principle, namely, social democratic policy – social dialogue and cooperation with trade unions. And in the spirit of this correctness, it does not seem right to me that the issue is that nothing has been done – if the defence budget has been stronger in the next two years by 60 million, if we have managed to ensure the social status of the people, not only soldiers and soldiers, raised the child's allowances, raised the minimum income, increased the number of scholarships, managed to achieve real wage growth, otherwise the misery to reconcile pensions, but still. 60 million, all the measures I've counted are nothing. And the charges that are being discussed are not, of course, consequences in the important part of the government's work. This government is now dealing with the consequences of the lawsuits. The overtime, as the Minister has said, has been paid since March of this year. And, of course, things need to be seen through the real framework, and here I agree with my colleague Mahník: a lot of debate will be necessary and we too will have to learn correctness. But it is true that we have and understand differences in policy management. For example, if one government understood that instead of one possible fighting group, because there is money available then, it might buy two, another policy might say: 'one is enough because we don't need it anymore, and the difference can be saved for the time we need it'. And the third highest cost in the budget is interest just because maybe we're not [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u25	Mr. Scoberne, it's time [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u26	Excuse me, Madam Vice President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič, representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u28	Yes, thank you. Well, I'm glad that my colleague welcomed this law that we tabled today in our preteen or in our parliamentary group. It is also possible to sit down to talk in a second reading; if this goes through, amendments are possible because the law is appropriate in this sense that only numbers can be distributed differently and also, of course, those who receive this amount. I didn't say nothing was done, but I said we talk a lot, but the results are very little or practically nothing. And I'm afraid that was my main intention to make this law too – because we know that soldiers are public servants – we will not solve those essential problems. We still can't look at it that way. Let us now forbid soldiers who have young children to stay at home to invoke it. That's an example: I have a small child, next week we're going with a unit for one week to Poček or to Milky Way, I'm going to avoid it, I'm going to refer to having small children. No, not ban it. But we need to find a way to stimulate them so they don't say it. That it would be worth it to go to field training. Not that the Priors will stay at home. Why is he staying home? Which one's he with, but I've told you before.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u29	Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister and Secretary of State, Chief. Here we need to start always talking from the left and from the right. But we always forget the essentials. And I would first begin by commending the Slovenian Army absolutely for its membership, professionalism and attitude despite all that has been heard today. Sometimes there's talk here, and as Tonin says, it's sizzling this Slovenian army, but there's something to be warned about. That it's not a frown from today. It has been quite a while since, there are certain moments in our history, when the budgets of the Ministry of Defence have been greatly cut. And it would be hypocritical to say that in the time of this government, all of a sudden, everything can be fixed. I think we all have to be real here and take a little bit of a distance, and say, "Yeah, it's possible to increase something, but according to some of the resources and options that this country has." Yeah, there was a time of fat cows, yeah, getting guns, everything was nice and right, but after those seven years of fat cows, seven years of crisis came and this crisis came to us. I also agree with Ninja's words that the law will not solve anything. I also absolutely do not solve anything with these laws. [[…]] However, it is essential that certain things nevertheless give some value or some possibility of something. As Jan said, it is not only necessary to look closely at the Ministry of Defence segment, but also other ministries are involved in all this social policy or some better living environment that they create. That things are going slowly, you know, but we really have to be that correct and honest, and say, "Yeah, but something's just moving." That everything is perfect is far from it. On our part, too, we are putting some pressure on both the Government and the Minister to improve this social status of the Slovenian Army. And here we all have this same concern. Everyone would love a well-armed, satisfied army and all that, but things are the way they are and they need to be taken. But if we take certain steps in this direction so that I can, I'll say, fix it in time, I think these are positive steps. Positive steps are taken with regard to social issues, with regard to certain of these little things that are somehow being regulated. And if we are honest, 2015, 2016 we have regulated the status of the police and given it a good part of the funds, and 2017 and 2018 we will give 2017 22 million and 2018 another 22.8 million to settle these matters. That this is enough for some big development or some big investment, we all have to be honest, it's not. But in fact, at least the status of the soldiers themselves will be improved, at least that's how we count. And if there's anything left that can be put into the equipment and what kind of investments, it'll be great for us, for all of us. When it comes to who's going to join the army; yes, it's always like that, at least I look at it that way, when you're interested in a job, you always ask about, at least in frame, what it's like to pay. If this guy pays you and the conditions they're offering you don't work, you say, look, I'm sorry. However, I agree with Jean and the others here, and Jurša is also the principle of this debate, so that we should once really start the talks that we want, or 5,000 or 8 000, what we can do. Will there be a Coast Guard or do we need all the air force? I agree, but this is a matter for the future to somehow make some frameworks. That everything is simple, as it seems, and only on the one hand is negative — we must admit that it is not. I think and hope that the Minister and her team, who certainly knows the situation in the military, will take appropriate action to improve. It is clear that it is up to us, and even more so in the opposition, that it will warn and clearly require action. And once again, I think it's my opinion that we're doing ourselves a really bad favor by talking in the media and everywhere about how bad our army is. Our army is not weak. That's great, we can't say. But still, other people and other ambassadors are listening to this and other ears are listening and unfortunately it's not a good commercial. In spite of all that I have said, our army operates abroad and has countless praises that it deserves, and I think it is true that it is here to give the hat down to all the leaders and all the soldiers to do so with such a grill. Also around trade unions is always this debate whether they have been involved enough either in legislation or in discussions with the ministry. I think we should have an open door to talk to the Ministry. The unions say no, the Ministry says yes. I don't know who to trust. But I think that in today's society the unions have the opportunity, even through the internet – Mr Novak sends us regularly, so we are aware, I think that the media also send this – I think they have a chance to say something of their own. Nevertheless, it is necessary to pour pure wine; I think that, like all unions, they should know exactly where their boundaries are. The Minister assured the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State that they had been invited to discuss and agree on social and legal issues. I don't see why I shouldn't believe them. That there are different thoughts that there must always be two sides that want to talk, but again one of these matters. And if I may conclude. I think it's right to talk about the social situation of the military. I have also received some response that I have requested and that I have before me, and I thank Commissioner Petk, the answer around the equipment for the Navy Squad, how is he and what is with him. So I'll send the boys down, too, if that hasn't already been transmitted to them. And it shows that, even on our initiatives, the Ministry responds and here I have the number of deliveries in December, in March 2017, and what additional quantities are ordered for 2017. So I think if this paper is made from the Ministry, it has to hold it. So thank you for your answers, and I wish you a good job. And we're going to make sure that social welfare is better anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u31	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor to prepare [[…]] I apologize, first of all, to Mr Weber, Mr Jan Mahnic, the representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u32	Thank you. Within a month, my colleague Ferlug said the second time, "Principal Mr. Friday". I don't know now. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] either he's prejudged or he's wrong. Okay, whatever. Marco, I agree, but we don't call these meetings because we think everyone sees and hears what kind of army we have. It's not my opinion that the army sucks. It's a long way from being a disgrace to her people, and according to the equipment, we're close. But who's already given an assessment of the under-military? Her commander-in-chief. I don't know if anyone can tell me, I don't know the country where the Commander-in-Chief of her defence forces would have given the military an under-valuation. Then there are only two options: whether to put all the bells on, turn all the alarms on to change – because in this country we know how to change, just by calling the media to make pressure, then something moves, see what local roads, what dangerous things people unfortunately have to solve, because every minister does not want to be asked publicly about some things – or simply put the matter under the rug. O.K., the assessment was what it was, the unions say what they're saying, we don't care if anyone thinks there's something really wrong in the military and that the situation is so bad, we're not going to talk about it. I think this is the wrong approach. We've made it clear, and here's my question. Madam Minister, why don't we solve things the way they're saved in Germany? In our request to convene this meeting, we wrote about the problems faced in Germany and what the German Bundestag had done. He has adopted his own law for every problem, and they have resolved matters by means of sectoral laws. These laws are written in there. They settled down, the case was resolved in the case of one law in three months. And we're just waiting for something out there with Fides to agree that something with Sviz is going to be arranged that something there, something there, then it all goes down. Soldiers depend on it, soldiers depend on what kind of arrangements they make now, and no one talks on their behalf because they can't because they can't. But do you know what's ironic? That what teachers negotiate is that this is true of soldiers. At least if everyone sat at the table and had the same baseline conditions, they don't have them. Unfortunately, they don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u33	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u34	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The importance of the Slovenian Armed Forces is discussed only by the fact that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces must not strike. So an exceptional awareness of how important the security of the state and within this system is the position of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Of course, many acts and changes to legislation and constitutions are then adopted in a way that is not taken into account. It is therefore not surprising that today we have a debate on the social situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. But I would point again to the fact that I had also pointed out when the constitution was changing and when a fiscal rule was incorporated into the Constitution. Never be subject to a fiscal rule on the security of the State in terms of limiting the security of the State. And at the moment the fiscal rule entered the Constitution, we also endangered the social situation of members of the Slovenian Army, threatened their training, threatened their equipment and, of course, compromised their security situation. The warnings that can be heard by the Commander-in-Chief must, of course, also be transmitted to the National Security Council; if security is threatened, then the National Security Council must also discuss this, in which everyone is responsible – including for the provision of funds. However, I stress that it will be necessary to amend the Constitution, to delete the fiscal rule from the Constitution if this situation is to be resolved. and here I must remind the proposers that, in fact, one of the biggest supporters of entering the Constitution were, but today, they point to the social situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. These two matters do not go together and I warn you, the fiscal rule or the security of the State must be removed from this fiscal rule. The second thing I am warning all the time is the fact that we cannot send a national reform programme to Brussels, in which we record that public expenditure will not increase or that we will reduce it and that we will of course respect the Maastricht criteria. It's not working. On the other hand, NATO's commitments are made to try to increase the expenditure on the operation of the Slovenian Army, up to 2% of gross domestic product. It doesn't work together. And a very interesting situation will arise if the new President of the United States really lays down this condition that members must fulfil their commitments. How, then, will we fulfill this covenant? I believe that that moment will have to be seriously considered either to withdraw from NATO or to definitely change the Constitution or to delete the fiscal rule from the Constitution. There's no other solution. And this inconsistencies in thinking about how to manage and run the country is, of course, very much reflected in the social situation of members of the Slovenian Army. And this is due to the fact that, in fact, when decisions are made, we are not aware of enough of all the elements of this decision, but only to some fiscal, financial interest, private interest and quick earnings. The price of this is also the social situation of members of the Slovenian Army. And look, we have put over € 5.1 billion into the banking system, and today we are unable to clear up issues that are very clearly identified as being too high, too expensive. An estimated 1.5 billion is that too much is invested in the banking system. As a result, we are paying 200 million euros in interest for this rehabilitation. The Slovenian Army or the security system itself needs a possible first phase of 50, in the next 100 million, and also the whole other system of some similar amount. And these are the solutions that have been missed and endanger the security of the country. I therefore believe that the National Security Council should also talk about the financial hole and the implications for the security of the country. Only a well-functioning economy and banking system is one that can also ensure a good implementation of the entire security system. And once again, if we find that this money, which has been invested in the banking system, does not go back to the economy and we continue to want to talk about how we will need to further cut into this system due to poor claims on small and medium-sized enterprises, and on the other hand, EUR 1.5 billion lies abroad, on banks for which we are actually paying for that money to be there; this money should go back to the economy as soon as possible and it is economic growth itself that can also provide an effective defence system. And finally, just for a moment, I will also remind you of the importance of the functioning of the economy for the security of the country in the light of the failure to build a second track. Only because of the possibility of a natural accident or other calvary that may occur on this single track connecting Luka Koper to all Central Europeans would I say to railway corridors and economies that depend on this, should this investment have been made long ago due to respect for the defence plan, rather than talking about how much money we will allow privates from the state budget to join this building, or that we will even leave this important potential to other countries that will gladly take over and ensure their security and threaten our own. These are these missed decisions and unclear concepts of what the state is and what the security of the state means and this needs to be cut off and we will stop talking about the situation of members of the Slovenian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u35	Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mr Andrej Cuz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It would be very good if we went from the second track back to social care for our soldiers, for our officers, officers, military personnel and civilians in the Slovenian Army. This is the structure that is fully employed in the Slovenian Army and each of them has its own problems, its social difficulties and all these people represent a large part of Slovenian national security. The global dimensions – including opportunities, not just threats – point to the two main priorities identified by the Slovenian Democratic Party as the opposition party in this mandate. The first problem already discussed by colleague Mahnic and other colleagues today is the changed security situation in the world, where we need to stress once again, to pay particular attention and raise the material foundations of Slovenian national security. The second part, which is essentially a positive wave, is a change, I can say, the digitisation of Europe, especially our biggest partners in Germany; the complete change in technology, the integration of technologies, which is the essence of the fourth industrial revolution, which I am talking about as an engineer of two mandates in this Parliament, and which is returning the entire industry from third world countries, where they used the total nature of their labour force, especially the child labour force, back to Europe. Europe will become the most competitive part of the world with extremely added value and with extreme human well-being if it persists — which is a prerequisite for national security. As a result, the influx of migrants into this area — not just fleeing wars — gives a strong basis for material survival. Unfortunately, this year we celebrate, we should celebrate for 25 years not only our country, but 25 years of our great victory. Our great victories, the Slovenian Army is a victorious army. It was an army that, 25 years ago, defeated an army in a shameful way, which in 1945 carried out mass exterminations, killed more than half a million people, that literally began its genocide. And this same army, as we could see a few days ago on Slovenian national television in the extraordinary contribution of Valentin Areh, ended up in fact also with genocide. After the defeat in Slovenia and Croatia, she ended genocide in Srebrenica, although it was formally dissolved in 1992 but certain military units with a new command ended in genocide in Srebrenica. For this reason, we must speak respectfully about the Slovenian Army and, above all, its members. The Slovenian army experienced that bloom in those years after 1991, there until somewhere in 1994 until the Depal village affair. At that time, chiefly soldiers, officers, and officers were valued. They were appreciated in Slovenian society. The more the belief that we won, the more they came to the forefront of the economic theme, the less noticeable what is happening in the Slovenian national security system, especially in the defence security system. At that time, the Slovenian army experienced rebirth, bought weapons, trained its officers, subordinates and soldiers, and was optimistic. After Depal's affair, what can I say about the then demolition of the then Minister of Defence of Mr Janez Janša, who brilliantly carried out the Slovenian independence along with Brigadier General Toneto Krkovič and the other commanders of the Territorial Defence, the provincial and all others, of course, followed the anti-offensive. It's anti-offensive of the personnel that represented the fifth column. These anti-offensive personnel – I will not say all of them, I repeat, not all of them – which we mercifully employed in the Slovenian Army as formerly indoctrinated members of another army. But I must admit that there is a whole range of Slovenian patriots and former JLA officers among the army we have hired. However, it was part of those who could have made outstanding progress since 1994. I've been a part of this system for 14 years. I can say I was involved in the beginning of this army. I was a soldier. I started in Pekra. Later, as you know, I worked as an engineer abroad, I was in Siemens, Hugin-Sweda, Multicard, i.e. in multinational companies, and I returned to the Slovenian Army as an expert in optical electronics, especially at the then renovation of Slovenian tanks, and I worked all the years: first in the tank battalion, 74th armored-mechanized, later in artillery, later in logistics and in 2010 I left the Slovenian Army with a sad face. What's the situation anyway? Now I will tell you firsthand what the situation in the Slovenian Army looks like, how I saw it as one of the commanders, as one of the leaders at the end of the leaders, who led a group that led a large part of Slovenian logistics, and what social hardships were already. The Slovenian soldier is highly educated. As you know, the Slovenian soldier has at least a secondary vocational education; most of them we have those with a fifth degree of education. We have a whole range of soldiers who have a higher or higher education, but they are in the position of a soldier. And as colleague Mahnic has said today, their pay grade is initial, from 19 to 21. Not only do these members have a low salary compared to other civil servants, they also have an abnormal situation, so they must be extremely physically prepared. You can't be a member of the Slovenian Army unless you've been vetted. Therefore, the Military Intelligence Service may issue an opinion with reservation and someone may be dismissed, the contract is not extended or cannot be accepted into the Slovenian Army and there is no appeal to this opinion. Any opinion. So there's a whole type of brake that someone can even do military work. A soldier, an officer, and an officer are also physically tested each year. We have what we call Cooper's test. So it's a specific job, and I'm still sure that the Slovenian Army should never be placed under any house of public servants. It's a job you can only do temporarily, in your best years, and in these best years, you only have a contract for a certain time, and in these best years, you're paid miserablely. This is why the Slovenian Army is decommissioned. On the other hand, it is a reduction in resources. And when I listened here also to Mr Pahor's Commander-in-Chief; there was a man in his government who had reduced funds most rapidly for the Slovenian Army, i.e. in crisis. And of course, that's one cynical statement after someone comes in and says that now we need to raise funds. And at the end of Slovenian military or defence system gets negative connotation, we also get a negative security assessment, which of course must be an alarm for all of us, and I can say it experiences its lowest rate in 2016. Slovenian soldiers are leaving. We are also leaving, officers of the Slovenian Army, and we are not talking about this either. Highly educated, with terrible experiences, with all kinds of education, and that's negative advertising. On the one hand, we spend our money on advertising to win members, we even have a job that cares about it, we have spent millions on promoting the Slovenian Army in recent years in the media, and on the other hand we do not provide enough for the material well-being of soldiers, subordinates, officers, military personnel and civilians. It's a vicious circle. It should be noted that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces also leave because of morals. They're also leaving because of ideological differences we've never talked about. They leave because of those who compare the Slovenian Army with the Yugoslav Army, as they did recently in Radovljica, where they celebrated 48 years of the 1968 Territorial Defence, where they were to be created, and there they stained the sign of the Territorial Defence by placing part of the Red Star in part of the territorial defence. So what they're trying to say is that the Territorial Defense was something like a Yugoslav People's Army. She never was. Indeed, it was created as some supporting element of the Yugoslav People's Army after 1968 due to the new situation – the occupation of the Soviet Union – but in 1990, when the leadership of the Territorial Defence co-operated with the then Supreme Commander Mr. Kučan, and shamefully began handing over arms to the Yugoslav Army, we reorganised it and placed patriotic Slovenian commanders. And after 1990 – by 1993 the term Territorial Defence still existed, after 1993, as we know, we have the name Slovenian Army – these people then won, defeated the Yugoslav Army. I must admit, after 1994, those of us who were employed, as did the Chief of Staff on his sleeve, the signs of the Manevrian National Protection Structure, those who carried the signs of the veteran and those who carried the enkar signs, that is, the members of the soldiers in Pekra and Igu and also the elders, were disgracefully demolished after 1994. Sam, I have to admit, I've barely made progress several times, although I've always had an official excellent grade, graduated twice, from the economy and from electrical engineering, I've always had 300 points on the NATO tests in 2010, as I explained, I've been disappointed to leave the Slovenian Army. Before I left, I had to go to the General Staff and there they checked not how much they owed me, for how much overtime I had given them up, but I had to go sign and they particularly looked at whether I owed anything else to the Slovenian Army. [[…]] For the two schools they sent me to, or I owe them something else. And there's a whole bunch of them. Better people than Franz Breznik in the Slovenian Army, who work even better, work even harder, give up even more. Every day or the fifth of the month these people who are separated from their families come home, men at the best of years, and show off their miserable wages. What kind of manhood is that? What pride can it be when he sees a few hundred euros in payment sheet 5 in the month, and when he brings it to his young wife, the children, he shows them this list? There are many hardships, even when partners are separated from such members. They're never there, they're always on the ground somewhere, and at the end of 5, they bring home a little pay. All sorts of psychological pressures on these boys, men, officers, officers who are then separated from their partners. These are also the hardships of these members. The problem I see at the end of the day, but the Slovenian Army is being demolished. And at the 25th anniversary, when we celebrate our great victory and even the birth of our country, these are also members, and Part of these members also participated in, we can say, the so-called coup when they released Colonel Popov, who destroyed Radgona, and there was no real word about it. [[…]] This was a great deal, we can say a great deal of fighting against the Slovenian Army, against the Slovenian soldier and the shameful act of two members of the Slovenian Army, who in my opinion should be dismissed immediately, who are still there today and who were both mercifully employed as former members of the Yugoslav Army in the Slovenian Army. So the degradation continues and the destruction of the Slovenian Army continues because they are returning to Slovenia of old forces. These will never know and will never forgive, especially the Serbian part of the diaspora in Slovenia, that we defeated them shamefully, that we were a few times weaker and that David defeated Goliath because we were good Slovenian fighters. They have returned to us and are deliberately destroying the Slovenian Army today. All those who have destroyed many Slovenian homes are guilty of the death of 19 Slovenian members during the Slovenian independent war, hundreds or thousands of wounded, thousands of people without houses, without housing. All of these 100 criminal cases were rejected, and this is also a picture showing how the Slovenian Army is also working on the ideological field. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues – if ever, then the Slovenian Army needs help here today and now, it needs understanding. My former war comrades, colleagues with whom we worked together to build this army, today need help and are calling for more ways to help them here. I was alone in the formation of this army, I had this privilege, I also had the privilege of being there when we lifted the Slovenian flag on June 26, 1991 200 meters away from this Parliament. And I don't want to be here in Parliament today, that I'm with this army of ours, this victorious army is going to see its end. In such changing security situations as today, respected colleagues and colleagues, we need this call and we need to hear this call from these armed forces. When that goes down, we can never build it again, we can never build it overnight. And all those who today bring some ideology to the Slovenian Army, when they destroy the symbols of this Slovenian Army, when they show a red star on some shield of the Territorial Defence or on the sign of the Territorial Defence, I have to tell them that the Slovenian Army has three foundations. In 1991 we won, in 1991 we did not lose a piece of Slovenian land and in 1991 we did not, as in 1945, I can say, avenge those who opposed Slovenian independence. Those who acted against Slovenia's independence, those who did not believe in Slovenia's independence. Those soldiers we let out of JLA's trucks, we put them here and put their kids on, protect them, and give their mothers back. After this Slovenian war, after 1991 in Slovenia you will never find caves, mine pits, where we killed the disgraceful people who opposed us. This is why I never allow myself to compare the Slovenian Army with the Yugoslav Army or any other army. And that is why I am asking you as a former member, respected colleagues and colleagues, as he also said of the Chief General Staff, to help the Minister, the Chief and to help all our members of the Slovenian Army. I'm asking you because they're honorable people because they're good people and because we can be proud of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u37	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Cuz and Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President! I must say that colleague Jean and colleague Breznik have already given many reasons for the situation in which the Slovenian Army was located today. They said very important things that I do today and now I'm not going to repeat here because I don't think that would make any sense. The fact is that today we are talking about a proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the social situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. And the fact is that it is hardly a day for us not to discuss the social situation in our society here in the National Assembly. And it is amazing that all those who listen and look at us have found that if in this society everything was as it should be — at least partially normal — they would not be talking about the problem, the social situation in this society in our country every other day or almost every day. It's amazing if you listened on Wednesday when the government's interpretation was her views. And even most coalition parties, I have to exclude certain individual Members who said that everything in this society is normal, all O.K., virtually nothing is wrong. We're living great, we're not missing anything, no one feels like we're having problems, so we can spend a month, and so on. And I had a feeling, and I think I've written in one tweet, that one part of this society or caste, sitting in the National Assembly or Government, lives in another world or somewhere else, or on Mars or whatever. If that were not not the case, everyone sitting in this House - so on the side where the Government sits, so coalition parliamentary groups and the opposition - would step together and say, look, we have this problem, let's face it, let's say it's a fact, let's say, let's face it! Let's face it, there's been a huge mistake. It's not possible to fix things backwards, but it's possible to move forward together and do this, let's solve this key issue that's at the forefront. And one of the key problems of this society is that the social situation of most people is getting worse, that poverty is increasing and that there are huge, constantly more people working for minimum wage. More and more who get pensions when they get them, they don't know if they'd do anything, whether they'd move on or not. And so on and so forth. And it is amazing that in all the subsystems there is almost, except for one part – privileged people I say this because I hope that things that live as gods and practically keep the whole government in check and the majority in the coalition, most of them in the coalition, except I think that the SDS, which warns uncompromisingly of this injustice in this society, on this duality in this society and until we clear it up in the complete circle, will be very difficult to solve these problems that we are dealing with here today and about which we are talking about today. [[…]] And I think, not the Minister, not the Commissioner, not any Member alone can solve this problem. We in this society must adopt different goals, different priorities, once and for all, with those who exploit most of this society and tell them together all those who sit here in this Parliament, stop, we will no longer give you commission – so we do not give them, but they do – we will no longer allow you to take commissions! We will no longer allow you to draw money from Slovenian state companies across borders and with that money you come back and buy businesses, and in this way again this black money you stole is trying to get into life. It's a whole bunch of stuff like that. But if we don't step together, I'm sure that this small majority of thieves won't be able to step on our fingers. And here all subsystems, all systems – both the government, the justice system, the coalition, the opposition – must do their work; only all those who have the opportunity to influence it. And then we won't talk about what we're talking about today. And today much has been said to be a key problem because the military is financially malnourished. I agree with that, but I'm also sure it's not the only problem. Now I would ask myself about the other part that wasn't exposed today, one of those other parts, and this is, is the money coming into the defense subsystem being rationally and fairly spent? This is the other extremely important question. And why am I saying this? I'll tell you now. At first we said, it is said, on the one hand, the social situation in the Slovenian Army is catastrophic; the result is in one part that there was not enough money in the subsystem, and of course the minister also said that Karitas' assistance receives about 100 individuals and families in the Slovenian Army. It's a catastrophic story, and you'll see why I'm bringing it up now. And then some soldiers in social distress decide on personal bankruptcy and so on. So, on the one hand, we have a part of the subsystem when we talk about the Slovenian Army, which practically cannot survive. And these soldiers, many of them – because I am from Styria, I know – go to Austria in the winter to tear down trees and so on and thus serve extra money. Then I know Slovenian soldiers who go to Austria to sell their own blood because they are paid in Austria to solve their problems with their families. Do you think it's a normal country? And why did I say that? Look, and then the story happens to us on the other hand, and it is only right that the Slovenian people know who is the one who is currently managing systems or subsystems in this society. And here we have an article: "Slovak soldiers are starving and Katičeva has taken more delegates to Mali than soldiers on a mission." Look at that, dear coalition and dear government, representatives of the government. And now we are talking on the one hand about the social problem in the Slovenian Army, and on the other hand we are talking about the abnormal and unacceptable waste of money! It's extremely distasteful and irresponsible! And that's not it, my dear colleagues. You all know this face. I've been talking about him. You all know him. And he writes: "The former Chief of General Staff and adviser to former President Danil Türk Ladislav Lipič abused the Association of Veterans of the War on Slovenia for the overthrow of the Janša government at the then All-Slovenian uprisings. Immediately after the collapse of the government, he received advisory contracts at the Ministry of Defence and a major impact on the Ministry." Its advisory role was almost EUR 10,000. And now I'm asking the Ministry and I'm asking the coalition and the government, do you realize what that means? It's over, clean. My dear ladies and gentlemen, this is a clean place. Inadmissible, clean places, and I'm not going to say it doesn't limit it to corruption. It's amazing, and I think it's extremely unacceptable when we talk about soldiers walking their blood to sell in Austria and in the winter to harvest wood so that they can survive. Unacceptable! And dear colleagues, another thing is, I think we need to draw attention to. Look at this. You know this. Or say this face, you all know it. Look at you, coalition, look at you, Minister. Madam Minister, please take a look at this, please. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, unfortunately. A lot of people can happen in life to see only a few points. God help me, I can't influence that. Look, what does it say? 22 000 075.72 euros in allowances was received by Mr Srečko Šestan, who was generously present on these matters when there was a migration crisis. And he only got 81% of the extras to pay. Srečko Šestan received 22 000 075.72 euros of allowances or 28 minimum wages from the beginning of the refugee wave last October to May this year, in addition to the basic salary of €3 000 406.45.45 gross. Thus, in 8 months, a public servant received slightly less than EUR 50 000, or an average of EUR 6 000 166 per month, increasing his basic salary by a good 81%. Dear Members and Members, dear coalition, distinguished minister, so here's what I warned you about at the beginning. That it is not only important and crucial that the financially supported defence system is, but it is important and crucial that there are certain structures that spend money across each border. And no responsibility. Who's the one with the responsibility here? If I was a minister, I'd have to draw the line right away. You don't have anything to look for in Parliament anymore. [[…]] You have nothing to look for in Parliament, please! If you allow yourself to sign such contracts or if you have not signed them, whoever has signed them, but you, as minister, are politically responsible for the operation of a subsystem. And, my dears, we are now slowly coming back to that moment and to those situations when we are speaking, on one side privileged gods and of course this may still be here with Mr Lipič, because he would not have received this advisory agreement if he had not been such an excellent friend of Milan Kučan, so that we wouldn't have thought anything of getting it. [[…]] And who was the one who encouraged the overthrow of the government of John the Great, why and who was behind it? Guess who. A gentleman with a name and a surname. And that's unacceptable and distasteful and extremely rude. And until we clear up once in this society that Slovenian citizens and citizens before the law are all the same and that we have the right to receive what we citizens together create in an appropriate way, depending on what kind of work someone is doing, but in a fair, legitimate way, for so long, believe me that I doubt that this society can take any step forward. And these are the people who are holding the whole country under control from behind. And why do we always have problems in the Slovenian Democratic Party? Because we're warning these people by their name. And I have to say here because I think it's right and fair, I've been threatened three times in one year or two. One time I got shot by a deer at the front door, then two pheasants with their heads cut off, and the third time, the whole AK was emptied from my front door one Sunday night at ten. I told the police about it, but what? Who do you think did this? Now I ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues here at the National Assembly, who do you think did this to me? Those honest people who work for a fair wage who have minimum wages? Or those pensioners who have 200 or 300 euros in pension or 500? Are those employees who work, as I said, for minimum wage? Who do you think did this to me? Tell me. And these poor people, I have to say here that right now they can hear me in public, these poor people don't have the balls to face me face-to-face and try to keep a man quiet. And who is it? These are the lobbying of the old party system. These are the lobbying of the old Party Wall system. But Marjana Pojibič can only be killed, there is no other option, no one will silence me in this National Assembly. As long as I'm elected from the people, please, President, take a look. [[…]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u39	You're talking in the middle. Order, peace! Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u40	When you step on your tail, there's a problem. God help me. It's very sad, but it's real. If you ask people, they'll tell you, that's a very famous saying. Well, and I would have ended up here anyway, that's all that mattered to me to say that the complete Slovenian public heard that Marian Pojbic would never be shut up, no one, ever. I will always say what I think is right, what is fair, responsible and in accordance with the rules that should apply in normal democratic society. And believe me, I'm not afraid of the poor people I mentioned before. If they've managed to kill Kramberger, I think maybe even me or someone else can, but once the real truth will come to the fore, because the Slovenian nation will stand by those who are concerned with the Slovenian people, who are concerned about those who are struggling to break through from month to month, and who are opposed to those groups of thieves who are taking most of the money so that we have more and more people on the other side who are living on the threshold of poverty. And it is necessary to make an end of this, and this is also related to what we are talking about today, about the Slovenian Army. And until these people are cut off by the pipes I've talked about today, and that they will not, in addition to their huge, beautiful pensions — the question of whether they have been earned — still receive such and other contracts in one way or another, so long in this society there will be no better time for everyone and everyone. And I am sure that more such debates in the National Assembly are necessary for all of us together, as I said at the outset, to understand that time is running out and that we owe it to each other, because in this society we need to change the focus of the functioning of this society. But we can only do this if we are all or forever to walk this road. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party all these meetings and all that is, we only refer for one purpose. To convince the majority that all the things that now happen as they do are wrong and are going in the wrong direction. Only in the community, so if we all step together, we have a chance to get to the bottom of this. And here it is extremely important that each of us sitting here in this Parliament in the Government or anywhere in these key positions take responsibility. And if irregularities have been committed – and apparently they have been, after what I have shown today, it is definitely for me; I cannot say definitively, but I think this is more than no – the story of corruption is nearing. All that I've mentioned before is that the circles that are connected are untouchable, they can do what they want, and we who sit here in the National Assembly, including the Government and the Minister I know what will happen to her in advance. [[…]] I know, it's all legal, there was no problem, we did everything right. And when we hide the true truth behind this, believe me, the sad story of this society and this country is unacceptable. We should know that much is legal, and the question is whether it is moral and fair and just. And I hope we're listening today, or we're listening. And no excuse will solve this problem that we have in the Slovenian Army. And you know, that's all to conclude. Of course, the Slovenian Army is the foundation that is still needed to ensure that Slovenians and Slovenians are safe in our country. Also with the others, along with the police and so on, but it is one of the key foundations. And whether we realize it or not, we'll know when we don't have it anymore, what we have now. And we won't have that if things keep going that way. This can happen to us very quickly. How much more do we need the Slovenian Army – properly organized, properly dressed, properly armed and able to protect the borders of our beautiful Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u41	The Minister for Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellows and fellows, how many of us are here in this hall! I wanted to drop by at the end, though. Given that concrete findings have been made, I would like to respond to this right now, but I will listen to the rest and then finally give an answer. On three matters, this is a visit to Mali, to Mr Lipič and to Mr Šestan. As far as the visit to Mali is concerned, I believe that the third or fourth contingent I have visited, and in fact I have also followed all the previous practices that the Defence Ministers have had to take care of the members in such a way as to visit them in the contingents. And there hasn't been a minister in Mali yet, so I thought it was okay, and that's what the expert advice was for me to do. And I am pleased to have done so, because I have seen so directly what the situation is like and how we need to prepare even more intensively in Slovenia for what can follow. If we look at Mali, this is a large country where almost 50% of the population is under 14 years old. And I believe that, given that there are increasing migration routes there, it is right that we also learn about the situation there in Slovenia. Well, Mr Pojbič, you and Minister Hojs yourself have been in the 22nd delegation in Afghanistan, so you know what the practice is. In addition to me, Mali visited the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, his chief of staff, my head of staff, the Director of the Defence Affairs Directorate, the Adviser of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the Support Service, which is protocol, communication and security. At the same time, I also visited Minister Mali, and we said quite a few words about the possibilities for further cooperation, but in particular we looked at how they were protected and whether all necessary equipment also had our members in Mali who are both in the past and also in the future, given that sub-Saharan Africa is part of the external contacts strategy also in the Republic of Slovenia. That's the first one. As far as Mr Lipich is concerned. Mr Lipič had a contract with the Ministry of Defence in the time of Minister Jakič. I've said it here, and I've answered it many times. I've been advised by a lot of people, but it's free. Mr Lipič did not advise me and I did not extend this contract. That's different. As far as Mr. Shastana is concerned, that's what we've been talking about here. This was the practice of all previous times. And in view of everything that has been found, what you have also said, what has also been said in the media, in view of the claims of my fellow workers, I have said, and there is already an inspection in progress to determine what will happen and on this basis we will also propose changes. You know that the change, the reorganisation of the Republic of Slovenia's Directorate for Protection and Rescue is already under way, but this comes from this dual function, that on the one hand we have the Director of the Republic of Slovenia's Directorate for Protection and Rescue, and on the other hand we have a commander of Civil Protection, who is not in the same function, and that is also pointed out by Member Tonin of New Slovenia at one of the previous meetings. So we're saving it, too. Of course, I take the criticism of myself so that it may be too slow. But you will also be familiar with the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u43	Replica, Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u44	Thank you, Madam President, for I will be brief. Of course I was in Afghanistan first, that's true. But I was when the situation was completely different. When the situation was definitely different. And now at least two mandates, at least two, I don't know exactly after years, I don't think of dates, I don't think I've been anywhere for at least two mandates. Approximately, but I don't know exactly. It could be a year or so later, but it's about two mandates anywhere. Because I don't want to waste my taxpayer's money. That's why I didn't go anywhere, and I'm not going anywhere. Look back, you'll see things. You won't see me anywhere on purpose. Because in a given situation, under certain circumstances, I do not allow that. That's why I mentioned this visit, Minister, that's why. Second thing. You said, "That was the practice," when we were talking about Six. Thus, if the practice that tax money can be spent does not matter in any way – for these thousands we have listened to how many allowances were paid to this public sector at the time, to schoolchildren and so on – if this is the practice, it is said that there is no problem. Then we can do whatever we want. Then we share the average money, the practice was that. At the very least, ministers would expect to take action before the money was paid. We should take action before that. Not that after things have already been post-festum, they are watching whether or not this may have gone beyond some legal framework and so on. Before that happens, we should act and not allow it. And under the circumstances, when I said before, when Slovenian soldiers go to Austria to sell their blood. I am talking about these circumstances and this needs to be understood in the context. I hope the Minister is so understanding in context. I speak in context. And Madam Minister, at least I would expect you to say that this is a practice. We should say, "Yeah, I didn't let that happen. This shouldn't have happened and it didn't happen." That would be great. You get a lot on the table, a lot of bills, a lot of things, and you weren't sure you were a signatory, either. But at least whoever signed this should answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u45	The Minister for Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u46	Thank you. You may not have listened to me in the first place, but you still have to say. But I'm not judging, but since you've pointed out, I would have made a comparison between 2012 and this year. I do not condemn the minister for having to look for cuts, but in 2012 the most cuts were in what soldiers and soldiers receive. Now we're putting this back together gradually, and we know that it's not possible all at once. And then in 2012, Minister Hojs had a little less resources available – in 2013 – than we will have next year, it is said that the situation was similar. That is why I believe that good work was done at the time and that good work was also done today and that caring for members of the contingents is also part of the Ministry of Defence's duty. However, if international relations are spreading in this way and the wider situation is also seen to see what lies ahead for us in the future, this is all the more important. And as for Mr Šestan, I said that I had ordered an inspection according to what was said. I didn't sign it. I didn't know about it before. And if it is found that the money has been spent unjustifiably, these funds will have to be returned, here I will insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u47	Replica, Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u48	It's just, Mr. President. Madam Minister, there is a big difference between when I went to Afghanistan at the time, and if you look at how many times I've been abroad in four mandates, listen to me, and in these two years where you've been and how much tax money has gone. Yeah, but check the money and you'll see how much it costs. And one more thing, Minister, I'm not entirely sure now, I don't think that the visit when we were in Afghanistan was paid by the Slovenian state. I don't think it is if I'm right, but I'm gonna go take a look at it. Now, at this point, I can't give this information and I'll get it. And, Minister, if it's like I say, that she didn't pay for it, that she paid for it, then yes, whatever you laugh at, because you'll see, I'll bring the data next time, and we'll see who the mercenary was. [[…]] So until you have concrete data on the table, do not try to mislead the Slovenian public.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u49	The Minister for Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u50	Thank you, Madam President. But, fellow Member, I am the Secretary of Defense, and I have served as Secretary of Defense. You were an MP and you were acting as an MP, but I don't know how many times Minister Hoys has been anywhere. Only if I can say that I was in KFOR in Kosovo, that I was in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that I was in Lebanon, that I visited soldiers in Triglav when they were performing their duties in Operation Sophia, and that I was in Mali. And that in the future, if I am still a minister, this practice – which I have found to be good, is right for the members we have on various missions and operations – I will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u51	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the word to prepare for the pardon, that was already the case. [[…]] Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor to prepare for the mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greeting to everyone in the hall and also in front of TV screens! The social status of members of the Slovenian Army is a topic that has been dragging for quite some time. Members or all four representatives of trade unions working at the Ministry of Defence also participated in these meetings, which we have dedicated to this topic in the Defence Committee. The proposals for recommendations that have been made and the requirements are full of unfounded indications that are difficult to resist to adopt such recommendations, as the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out. It was also clear from the Government’s response that these recommendations were even inappropriate and inappropriate in some parts. When we talk about social status, I wonder if any analysis of the situation — I don't know, a member of the family had a family like this — have we gone to determine now the social status of all these families, have we made all the calculations, and how did we get this information? Because we know it's personal data, you can't just operate on them long and long. I do not think that I know of any analysis of the social status assessments of the families of certain members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who are socially affected. I believe we've also heard some data about the minimum wage. Of course, I do not say that, wages are too small — not just here, but elsewhere. We're talking about the famous J class and so on when we know what the amount is. But let's stay with the Slovenian Army. Even civil society is involved in the National Assembly and our working bodies. To some extent, I think it is acceptable, but in some parts, I think it goes beyond what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide. The most misinformation by the Union of the Ministry of Defence or the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia appears in connection with the one-off payment to a member following a decision of the Constitutional Court, which found that Article 206, paragraph 5, of the ZPIZ-2 in the work relating to the content of its authentic interpretation was inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I have before me a letter from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities dated 24 June this year. It was sent to the Minister of Defence and in knowledge to the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the main office, the Union of Slovenian Soldiers, the Union of the Ministry of Defence and the Capital Society. In this letter, the Ministry of Labour very clearly and clearly clarified the circumstances of the single increase in occupational insurance funds. And if I don't read everything from this letter, but only certain parts of it, I read from this letter, not entirely: "The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is 12. 5. 2016 decided that military personnel have the right to claim payment of professional insurance funds. Thus, those who have served in the Slovenian Army for at least 10 years and do not intend to exercise the right to a professional pension, regardless of whether their employment contract with the Ministry of Defence has ceased." "With a single payment there are changes in the rights arising from professional insurance. [[…]] In the event of a single redemption payment, the insured person shall not be entitled to any professional insurance rights. Soldiers and soldiers shall, by exercising the right to a single pension, lose the following rights: the right to a professional pension to be paid to an insured person when the conditions are met to meet the conditions for retirement in compulsory pension and disability insurance; the right to an additional period under which the insured person is actually entitled to the conditions for obtaining the right to an early retirement pension or a retirement pension from compulsory pension and disability insurance shall add a quarter of the period during which the insured person has been included in the occupational insurance; the right to a more favourable purchase of the pension period for the difference between the added period and the period of receipt of the occupational pension; the right to payment of a lower amount in the event of voluntary inclusion in compulsory insurance. We also explain that the one-off payment of the buy-in value is taken into account in the income as the second income of the insured and affects the amount of the income tax; when the redemption is paid, the remuneration of the income is paid at 25 %; and at the end of the year, income is charged against the income class of the insured; by the one-off payment of the buy-in value it increases the annual income of the insured, which may affect the amount or loss of rights to various social transfers such as: child allowance, scholarship, snack subsidy, lunch subsidy, higher amount for the payment of the kindergarten, social assistance." From this I can summarise and add a request: all those who have raised such a request in Kadu have fulfilled every member, and below is a warning, and this was all known and signed. [[…]] In the case of redemption payments in accordance with Article 206, paragraph 5, of the ZPIZ-2, the insurer shall not be entitled to other rights under the title of professional insurance. Apparently, our members of the Slovenian Army have been misled. I can't make another conclusion out of this. And what this will mean when what I said is income, it will only happen in the second year, what this will mean for our members, is to ask. But they have their union rights, they have their unions, four of them are working on Morse, and apparently the union has been very, very seduced by these soldiers. Some soldiers are now aware of this, but unfortunately it's too late. So much for this work, as far as PIZ-2 is concerned, and this right to a one-time increase in occupational retirement funds. As far as I am concerned, if I go to the financial part, the state of the Ministry of Defence, let me say that things have been heard from Mr Pojbič before, but I fully agree, some of the meetings of the Defence Committee in the past have been heard, including from Mr Janš, that for a decade this has accumulated the situation in the Slovenian Army and that it has now culminated. [[…]] Yeah, that's what I have to agree with. That's right. And I don't think anyone has any magic sticks. In the run-down situation in 2014 in autumn, when we took over the Government, it is normal that it also started in this area. As it is known, however, what has been the situation, especially since 2010, when the then Prime Minister of the Government, today the Prime Minister of the State, Mr Borut Pahor, has taken as much as 40% of the Morse, the Slovenian Army. He's the one who took it. It's a little weird. Today, or a few months ago, it states that it is a catastrophic situation in the Slovenian Army; it is precisely because of it in 2010. We all know, we're all at the same point, we don't split up here. However, in order to settle all of a sudden in the long and short term and the situation in the Slovenian Army is one, the financial budget, which is available to the Slovenian Army, I would just say – I think, as the Croatian chief of general staff said on the occasion of the visit 14 days ago, "as much money as I have been given, I must ensure the combat readiness and competence of Croatian soldiers". [[…]] I don't think our Chief General Osterman would say otherwise, I'm sure. I think that he has already confirmed twice on the Defence Committee that he provides competence, adequate skills for the tasks expected, even in the context of the Slovenian Armed Forces as a NATO member. We know that we have received countless praises, even personally, when we received Mr Stoltenberg, President of the Defence Committee, who specifically highlighted our boys and commended them on how well they do their work on missions. It is true, and on this occasion I myself must express deep respect for the Slovenian soldiers who are committed to their task. Yes, given the situation in the Slovenian Army, it is not superior, but it is not so bad. But I am sure that all the changes that have been made since 2015 things are going to go smoothly – that you are recovering, it cannot be done in half a year if it has been accumulated for many years. [[…]] It will only make it easier for us to talk about money, to understand when we look at 2004; when we enter NATO it was the defence budget of 397 million, this year’s 2016 is 375, and between 2007 and 2010 there were also over 500 million. And I'm wondering, what was going on back then, where did the money go? Today we are talking, we need to rebuild the rolling stock – slowly working on it, slowly changing. Then why didn't he? We have 18-year-old vehicles. If the fleet were to be renovated for 7 to 9 years, today would not be such an acute situation. And here's the question, really, what was going on, where did the money go? But there was a lot of money. Why it wasn't permanent for maintenance and reconstruction, that's another question. But far from now leaving, tomorrow is a new day, let us forget, but it is necessary to make it easier to understand; 500 million, it is not little money. [[…]] And I think, despite the fact that our Minister-in-Office of the General Staff is working hard and with the help of the rest of the Ministry, that the effort is going in the right direction, and that at the beginning, when the Minister presented what has already been done, especially this year, in particular as regards our members of the Slovenian Army, that it is working and I am sure that we do not have to admit right now, but with yourself – I know that you are so honest – because they have done something. [[...]] And the fact that nothing has been done to give nothing has been accepted was also the new Medieval Defence Programme 2016-2020, where what is required of us was clearly defined, the situation in the light of the new challenges we are in. [[…]] So I think, if we look at this projection 2016-2020, the share of defence expenditure will gradually increase over the period 2018-2020, which would mean around €478 million for 2020. On the one hand, as far as the situation is concerned, how the negotiations with the employer are going on, I believe, is called the Ministry of Defence. Who's the talker? On the other hand, there are trade unions operating in the Slovenian Army. As the dialogue runs here, I don't know, I wasn't there, but I expect and I will also, I will say, support and advice, sit down, talk Not just talk, come to certain conclusions. [[…]] Of course, one side can't be as pleased as it is in business. I have been in business for many years; both sides must be satisfied, because otherwise there is little on the other side and I believe, and once again I say how the union talks, I don't know. [[…]] And I am sure that now this year – the year is coming to an end – that in the second year of these parts of the talks there will also be conclusions that are good for the Slovenian soldier, and that there will be options, including what is needed for legal change. We know that it is in preparation that he should have flown into our house this year to propose a law amending the Law on Defence and the Law on Military Service, which the two of them are already ready to do, and the Minister will be able to say so. Where this inwardly will also be cleared, defined, and for which it would also be right, the union next to his, I will say, the talks that are being conducted, that this will be coordinated together. Because after we've already had the bill proposals here, will we then go back to reverse? That is why I appeal to the Minister, the Ministry, the Chief, who is the first to be responsible for the Slovenian soldier to work on this. We have heard that something has been done and that such a catastrophic situation is in the Slovenian Army, I cannot agree with it, but it is not the best and superior. And all we've heard before is that they have to use a variety of extra receptions to get extra earnings. Yeah, if I talk to my fellow pensioners who were involved two, three years ago in the security system, so I don't get any more concrete, it's boring for them, what should I do? [[…]] And they're doing a good job of each other, and they're going to Austria to do something, and I know this case. So everyone would do something. Indeed, the social status of those soldiers, members of the Slovenian Army, would also be appropriate, it would be appropriate to receive special treatment. I don't know, it has been observed that they have indeed fallen into certain financial, such and other problems, together a family, many children possible or otherwise, the unemployment of a partner and so on. To this, I do not know, it would suggest that these cases are understood and that the employer in such cases, even if someone says that there is no legal basis for these members to listen and help in an appropriate manner. We know when you have problems at home, you are not with thoughts at work, and the Slovenian soldier must always be ready, able both with his spirit and his power, the ability to overcome what is required of him and for what will be needed tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u53	Mr Jan Mahnic, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u54	Thank you, President. I have to respond to this. I don't remember ever meeting Stoltenberg. If you said yourself, "We met with Stoltenberg, President of the Defence Committee, he is Secretary-General of NATO". [[…]] I don't remember that, please correct me if I was wrong. But we've met a lot of other people. Yes, of course we hear praise. But if it's compared to ours being praised for watching out for lunch, and others because they've been in battle, look, I don't know, why do we have an army? [[…]] However, I agree, we also commend many times. They are excellent operations, international, which are carried out in the honour and the military and the country of the Republic of Slovenia. We have been briefed by the Defence Committee on this operation by EUNAVFOR Sophia, where our people have been invited. Okay, a thousand 200 people have been saved. Otherwise, if it were still the point of being okay for me, instead of taking them to Italy, it would be better to get them back to Libya, but that's just part of the operation. At the outset, colleague Dolinšek said how we can talk about these social problems in the Slovenian Army, if we do not have some analysis. Mr Marjan, the very point of the recommendation is that an analysis should be made of the social situation of the members, so that we can talk in a credible manner – not only on the basis of what we hear from the unions, but we read in the media. The point of the recommendation was to prepare this analysis, which you say is not. And you voted against it. As far as consistency with the unions is concerned; when we get this new legislation, I am afraid that there will be no Yes, unions are already making proposals and comments that there is no law in this direction. [[...]] But we know what the law is. The Ministry will only refer to Article 27 of the Law on Public Servants and this is it. Trade unions can give an opinion, they can agree, they can disagree, but if you're a minister of defense, what can they trade? [[…]] They can't do anything. They don't have the right to strike, they won't protest. Why would we talk to them? Let them jump there with those statements, make some statements for the media. It's Vladi, it's not hurting us. If it hurts the soldiers, they're still quiet, they don't have the right to strike again, and that's it. So I wouldn't rely too much on how we get or don't get a coordinated proposal. He also said that the Slovenian Armed Forces were qualified and that the Chief must ensure that he carried out the tasks as provided by the Chief of Staff of the neighbouring country, the Republic of Croatia. Article 37 of the Defence Act lays down the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces. One of them is military education that is supposed to be going through. When you took over the government in 2014, you received a budget for military education about a million 800. In 2015, this fell by EUR 300,000. There was only a million more. If we look at a graph or table where the numbers are, how is education and training in the Slovenian Army, we see that the realization of training in this government is lower than it was in the previous government. We can see that the number of hours individuals spend in the field is lower than in the previous government. We can see that the number of bullets fired in exercises is lower than in the previous government. And if we say that this is education, the functioning of the Slovenian Army in peace. The Slovenian army is also responsible for intervention in the event of natural and other accidents under Article 37, where these tasks are mentioned, and that they are training, as I have already said. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, who is the Commander-in-Chief of the Army or the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, has given the Slovenian Army sufficient assessment for this area. That's what it's called 2. However, the Slovenian Armed Forces are clearly referred to in Article 34 of the Defence Act, or it defines its task to carry out military defence in the event of an attack on the country. And for such an action and such implementation, the Slovenian Army received an assessment by Borut Pahor. So there's no mistake. Borut Pahor made this assessment on the basis of what the Slovenian Army wrote to him, because Borut Pahor did not sit down, what I know, with Uroš Krek at the table, they drank one coffee, and they read the reports saying, "let's give them a shus". No, no, no. The Slovenian army has given itself such an assessment. Is that so, Chief, on the basis of what is yes, yes! [[…]] Why would the general there make things look good? He said the way things are, the way things are. And instead of taking measures to remedy this situation, here we say, "why we have so many meetings, things are getting better, things aren't so bad." Let one of you tell me what might be worse than an underestimation. Maybe Comrade Brglez, because there's only one professor here, what's worse than not enough? Can you give me less than one? Yes, you can't! If the assessment is insufficient, the assessment is insufficient. Not to say that everything is not so bad if the assessment is insufficient on the basis of what the military wrote in the area for which the Slovenian Army was originally established and which is its primary task. This is military defense in the event of an attack on the country. And even after today's session, because decisions will not be voted down because they have already been rejected by the Defence Committee, nothing will be better. We're waiting for the end of December to see what these fabulous acts bring. But in these acts, such as the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and the Defence Act, this situation will not improve because these laws are going in the direction of some legalisation of the current state. The wage situation can improve the only government by regulation or change something about public sector wages, just that. Or a third option, which, of course, is not an option under this government, we have seen this in doctors, the way out of the public sector wage system.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u55	The word first has a replica, Mr. Marjan Dolinšek. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u56	Thank you. Let me get this straight. Mr Mahnič, you were not the President at the time, was Mr Wilphan. Next thing. I was saying that I was wondering if analyses and findings were made about the actual social situation of the families of these Slovenian soldiers who have their families. And if, on the basis of what information — the data is confidential — who allowed themselves to be analyzed by families? That my wife is an example or a soldier, she has such a condition, so much pay, so much material condition, some property, or that she doesn't have it. Who allowed you to do this? In this part I may not have been very understanding, Mr Mahnic, in further clarifying that it will be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u57	Mr. Magg has the word. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mr Daniel Krivec and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u58	Today's debate is not intended to criticise members of the Slovenian Army, nor has it been said that Slovenian soldiers could see this as criticism. However, this meeting and the debate are devoted to improving the circumstances, working conditions in which they operate and to improving their salaries. But in view of everything, given the current social political climate, it simply seems that this government coalition, also because of climate or electoral support, if you want, is not prepared to substantially increase funds for the defence budget and to invest substantially in the Slovenian Army. From a political point of view, this position can even be understood, but not from a practical point of view. But these are new circumstances, and on the basis of these circumstances, solutions need to be sought. It is clear that this government coalition is not prepared to provide adequate conditions for 7,000 professional soldiers. So I would really like to think honestly, but then let's go into a change of doctrine. If other countries have begun to think about putting the recruitment system back in place, why not open such discussions with us? So let's use Scandinavian cases. Denmark, I think, is such an example where they have a combination of a professional army and a recruitment system. And if we're not able to maintain 7,000 professional soldiers, let's put this number down to 3,000 500, let's split it up and fill the rest with a recruitment army. I'm sure a lot of moms will be grateful if mandatory military service is reinstated as a duty. I even proposed in the previous term that we reintroduce the three-month compulsory service of military service immediately after completing high school, so that young people would not lose any years of service to their homeland, but after high school – that is, July, August and September – to serve their homeland; without going home, a three-month strict service of military service. Surely, there will also be individuals in this group who will not want to serve this military term, but will otherwise have to serve their country if you want, civilian service of military service. But some way I see it as the only way to ensure some proper security for this country. Circumstances change substantially. With a poorly equipped professional army, we will obviously fail and will have to go back to the old concepts. I know it costs a lot too, but I'm sure if we made a combination of 3,000 500 professionals and 3,000 500 recruits, then we could have some conditions to be satisfied professionals and do something for the wider context of the country. And for generations of young people who are 20,000 children a year, that would mean serving at least 3,000,500 individuals. This is something like Denmark has, that as many as they need to serve, they only appear voluntarily. And I think that we are able to do so and would suggest to the Minister that he also launch debates on the reintroduction of compulsory military service.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u59	Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the Minister, the Chief of State, the Secretary of State! I think that the debate on this topic is certainly useful, because the situation in the Slovenian Army is not good. This is what you all note, as the Commander-in-Chief points out, and this is what the military itself notes, including the Chief, who prepared this report, under which the Commander-in-Chief will then sign. We've dealt with a lot of different details. In this matter, in some way, I was most disturbed by what this coalition had promised me at the time it was performing and coming to these positions. It also bothers me that in the two years we dealt with the 2015 and 2016 budgets, there was a lot of promise as to how this will change in 2017 and 2018. Why it doesn't happen is another problem, but the biggest problem I see here is that the coalition has eaten its words that it has somehow given to individual resources. And interestingly, wherever the issue is related to some potential danger, we can also identify in the area of flood safety and elsewhere where there has been a lot of promise in recent years, but when both budgets were being prepared, both 2017 and 2018, this coalition has made it clear that it has agreed in its discussions that the situation in these areas is poor. And as I said before, most of them are potentially dangerous in areas that are uncharacteristic. And if there is no prior investment in these areas, when a situation arises, the matter may collapse. And in the case of the military, that must be a big problem. I agree with those who say that the army is still well trained, that we have good soldiers, we also have good officers and so on. Yes, because we can agree with such assessments, but we cannot agree that we have the right balance between soldiers, sub-officers and officers, and there is no reaction to this. We cannot agree that the military is adequately equipped, because the basic equipment of the soldiers is lacking, which is a major problem. Imagine a natural disaster where the activation of the military apparatus will also be necessary, and in fact the military will not even have the basic equipment to intervene. Not to mention military intervention, where the Supreme Commander's assessment was either way negative. And now if we compare this to another system in which there is no investment when there is a normal situation, we can come up with very serious problems at a time when the situation is critical. Even in the case of an economic company; if it does not invest in some development projects when it is actually doing well in business, there is usually a problem when a product is no longer able to sell and in the meantime it has not developed anything. And now I do not understand the coalition that it is wise at this point to maintain some status quo, because this was somehow understood, and this status quo is also maintained in the next two budgets. For if the services preparing these reports estimate that they would need about 50 million at this point in order to normalise the situation, you can predict in budgets 2017, 2018 after 22 million, this is not going together. And the same is true in other areas. And this budget was a test stone for this coalition, whether it adheres to what it says, what it promises, which, after all, also publicly promotes, or will actually make some conversion within individual items and also structurally transform this budget. And it is even more incomprehensible not to listen to these needs within the Slovenian Army just as the situation around us has somehow deteriorated, as my forerunners have warned. These recent statements by the Turkish Prime Minister about migrants are not very encouraging, and in this situation, it is certainly necessary to give the army a slightly more chance to prepare for individual situations. You have talked a lot about how a marriage solution will come to Parliament that will resolve this. Look, we can't make any more laws if there's no money, it won't solve any of this. And I do not imagine that any dissatisfied soldier who would be dissatisfied with his status, at some point when there would be a need to resolve a situation, either in an international area or within a country in the event of a natural disaster, would have successfully done his job in the event that he was already in normal, would have said that the state of his job was in some way dissatisfied, especially if he had warned of it for several years. Then, in the situation, the state will put pressure on these structures and demand that they do their work as much as possible, and there will probably be some argument that they are paid for it. We can agree, but it must also be taken care of and given appropriate financial coverage to these structures. Every time we draw attention to these things, the coalition says, "Well, it's been gathering for years, and it's impossible to get rid of it all at once." No one says it has to be removed at once, but you don't even eliminate it, but you're making it worse. I have warned about this in the watercourses, we are now warning about this in the defence budget and elsewhere. Interestingly, however, there is an increase in the number of schools where you all find that there are fewer children. That's where people get jobs. That's where the items get bigger. For such situations, which are likely to be more crucial at the moment and may be fatal in the future, as in the area of flood safety, where damage can increase enormously, there is no obedience. And from this point of view, it is most problematic that you have made some kind of commitment in this direction to all these structures. And when the Chief of Staff himself points to things, when he warns Arso in the case of watercourses, he warns the Department of Protection and Rescue, and you put your head in the sand, it's worrying. And once again, the biggest problem is not to listen where there is no direct threat, but there are some things that need to be done in stock, if we say so, but do not act in this direction. No preventive action shall be taken, no provision shall be made for such funds. It's interesting when it comes to the situation, but money can be found. And as long as we deal with both the budget and the needs in the individual resources in this way, I think that this budget will always be too short.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u61	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Mr Möderndorfer should be prepared and then we come to the conclusion of the debate, where the word first comes from the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Well, now, towards the end of the debate, we are in fact and what I said in the introduction – in all this debate, and as far as the Minister's answers are concerned, we have practically got nothing. Therefore, one sad fact remains that the Slovenian Army is dying on meals. Is this because someone doesn't know if it's because someone doesn't want to, it's another question. But the fact is that the situation is such that we have a circular retirement of the Slovenian Army. And this situation will not be different until this government – and I hope that this will happen as soon as possible — reverses the trend of soldiers leaving the system. The fact is, there are still many more of these than those who are new. And as long as there's a negative pointer here, everything else is useless. Every day we are abandoned by members or members of the Slovenian Army, and there are no new ones. I've already told the parental committee that this is a specific profession. It has been said that different psychophysical abilities are needed and that this frame is not exactly in Slovenia, that you are looking for and by the way, you take someone in and it is in the system and that is it. And even more so, it would be important for us to take care of this particular frame. The fact is, we can't compare it with other public servants either, because here we know it's contracts, ten-year contracts. Now imagine one young person; for 10 years, her salary is such that a loan practically one to solve a housing problem cannot be obtained, after 10 years she can leave the system. And you know that everyone will be looking for another option to get a job anywhere else. And, of course, they now most often find a solution in neighbouring Austria. You say things are getting better. I'll tell you again the scale that's for me. I mean, I can't really, I can't even think that's possible, but the facts are like that. [[…]] Listen to this: 2005 we were from 126 countries in 99th place on the international scale of military power in Slovenia. That's when we even got in front of Albania. This year we fell to 111th place and also fell behind for Albania. I'm talking about the power of the Slovenian Army. Earlier, I had told the Minister whether it was true that they had not been united and relatively quickly about how many bullets they needed and that they had not communicated it to the Ministry of Finance. By the way, the situation in the Slovenian Army of Grief is me in this debate when we are talking about a social picture. That we have a Minister of Defence on one side here, but we have no one from the Finance Ministry and no one from the Ministry of Public Administration. That's not what they're just not interested in. [[…]] How will we resolve matters if there are not even those responsible for oversight? In the morning, when it had to be painted at the time of the introduction of water into the constitution, everything was full here. Today, we may also have an answer to this question. I would also like to know what is the deal where so-called employees are supposed to be saved after 45 years and those who are contractually, which the Minister is supposed to prepare, but who have been rejected by the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration. Does that hold or not? The only thing you're referring to is this eternal Defence Act, and this one isn't on the table for two and a half years. And you know exactly how the Defence Act is passed. Everything would still be acceptable when you say, "such as a cake, we can give." I couldn't agree more. But in the coalition contract, this government has stated that the issue of security, the security system, will be dealt with as a matter of priority. Priority, Your Honor! Now I'm asking you. It was, and there was money for the cops, and it's right! He wasn't found as a soldier. Now, tell me, is the Minister of the Interior so much more capable of negotiating with the Government, or what's the point? Because that money the chief mentioned, I said, he blew into a fog in what's called an information cloud. Same amount if you add it up. In two years. I listened to him earlier from a fellow Member, and I listened to him very well when he spoke about the 2016-2020 medium-term programme. This is now the success of the current Minister of Defence and this department. Come on! Let's see what happened to the previous medium-term programme, how many percent were realized. And if you are reading what the Member himself has pointed out in some way, all things are moving there between 2018 and 2020. But for what? Because then the government will be completely united and, of course, bear some responsibility to someone else who will not be able to prepare these documents at all. Otherwise, I must admit that this is not the only area where this government is acting in this way. Almost all ministries find some resolutions, some long-term, short-term strategies, after two years, and we see it, and everything is moving out there after 2018. Now I'm interested in people. Before that, we listened to our fellow Member, what the Slovenian soldier will lose now that he has raised this money. Do you think they didn't know that they were going to have to pay their income? Of course they knew. They're the only ones solving their situation today, this moment! They don't even believe what happens to a pension in a few years. They're leaving the system. They don't abandon him because everything would be fine, but they don't believe what's going to happen to their pension pole and so on. They don't believe. And that's why they prefer the little thing that happened to them to take and have today. And they solve the social problem. It was said earlier that although the fellow Member wanted to get a little out of the way because he did not really know what was proposed on the committee and then he said, "who hopes to make a social picture in this country?" [[…]] Yeah, for God's sake, how do we know there's 300 people on the edge or under the edge of poverty? It's not personal data, because no one's planning on dissecting the family. However, something is true that I would very much like the information, since it was said earlier that only those with a much larger family — members of the Slovenian Army — would go to our home for humanitarian assistance. I've heard of people who get into a lot of trouble. Then we came from a fellow Scobernet to domestic violence, and we got alcohol in the family. However, I would like to see specific data on who is walking and especially because you have said that there are also in other countries how many such soldiers are in Austria who are seeking social assistance. But humanitarianly, for packages. I'm interested in a comparison, let's see if our soldiers are walking because they have problems with alcohol and violence, or because they have four children or more or the reason is somewhere else. By the way, I can't get past the fact that the Roma family, who is unemployed, both husband and wife and have four children, gets a circus of 2,000 euros a month. These are the official calculations that we have received from all Members from one of the representatives of the civil initiative. These are the facts. Here must the Slovenian soldier pick up the packages. Nor did the Minister tell me what happened to wages or the mass of wages in civilian work. As much as the number of civil workers has decreased, which is too heavy according to the work in the Slovenian Army, there are about a thousand 400 people, I think, employed in the civil part of the Ministry of Defence. I want to know what happened here or how you kept the Slovenian Army, because I don't know what the civilian part will serve and who it will serve without a Slovenian soldier. Now there's something else. Minister, I also agree here with my colleague Pojbič; the fact is that something more has been attached than the past. But now, what are the priorities of this minister? Last time we got information that military vehicles are faulty, technically faulty. On the other hand, you have a new fleet. Now, let's say, do we need Beemwei for the ministers right now, or do we need a military vehicle? Next. Mr Srečko Šestan has already been mentioned today and I will also expose him, and not only him, I will also point out Stanislav Lotrič. That's why, just because you'll see what amounts they get in their first-class wallets and some second-rate soldiers. Lucky Six was in the role of boss, whatever, Civil Protection. That's how he introduced himself. He was wearing a uniform and it's a voluntary function. I'm talking about the time of the migrant wave. You know very well how many volunteers worked in the field at the time. They received food and perhaps even some way if they were allowed back home. One EUR 8 000 600 was received from October 2015 to May 2016, the other EUR 6 000 200 for overtime. You will tell me how many Slovenian soldiers have received a specific payment; otherwise in the system they receive or should use the hours. The following information, even more alarming – one received 7 000 euros and the other received 15,000 Euros of stand-by allowance! Now I'm asking you, wasn't there a lot of readiness in this country? For readiness. And you know, that was for a period when the migration wave was gone, May 2016; then you all said that things had fallen apart. He was still on the alert. Next, I was also interested – this is also a question I asked – how many such persons have received such amounts? I'm actually interested in that. I am also interested in how this work, overtime or any other kind of work did not comply with the contract. In fact, the specification for the number of overtimes indicated by the Ministry was not in line with the information contained in the order. I don't know what kind of inspection to find out. I think it's on the palm of my hand, an irregularity, and someone has to answer for it. How is it that there was a specific work to be done back? But it is known that there is a time of crisis, and it is clear who will have to work more at that time. But look, the minister replied, "Now the inspection service will check the matter and if anything turns up, we'll react." Well, let's see how the Ministry of Defense reacts. At a time when the majority of citizens and citizens of the Popov affair were something unacceptable, and today we have not received an answer why the subordinate did not inform the Chief of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces of his proposals, then these two people – by the way, it is very interesting when they came into the Slovenian Army system, all three of them, even this would be very good to see – for what they did, I think they received a reminder before, I think a unit. Come on. A reminder in front of a unit. And I wonder who's in charge of these people and what their interest is. No, no, the first officer is Mr Polšak and you know him very well and you think very well of him. So, your honor, what you're doing with the Ministry of Defense, you're cutting him to pieces. And I have already said, on the other hand, we are listening to how the Chief of the General Staff of the Slovenian Army should ensure that an ordinary Slovenian soldier is motivated to be well prepared and to squeeze his teeth as much as possible. I agree, there have been difficult times, but today we are talking about economic growth, we have heard about new jobs in the so-called economic work, just as the Minister has said, so things are moving. And you can't say that money that should go to the Slovenian Army is hard to get if it could go to some information cloud; for tools that most ministries can't help themselves with, because they don't even have the basics to use these tools. Go see what kind of computers individual ministries are working on, and they'll laugh at you when you talk about the information cloud. I also asked the minister how they review and what contracts they have concluded with those who supply uniforms — given that there are rapid destructions. This would also be very good, and I hope that these matters are being reviewed and that it is actually seen whether this supplier is really the one or maybe it is some other interest. You were also talking about working with the Slovenian Army syndicates. I believe you've been involved in some way. But you know, you're not in those essentials. Of course, the difference between you and, for example, the Minister of the Interior is that the Slovenian Armed Forces cannot, in accordance with the Constitution, strike or decide on such a form of protest. But I believe that if I could, this one would be faster than it was in the Slovenian Police. But this does not mean that you have the right to ignore these unions — not even with the constitution — because they are, of course, a tiger without teeth. It's right to listen to them. These unions include a large number of members and members, and I think that's also a relationship that shows how we do some things. Perhaps a celebration or a speech at a celebration less than a union talk, or perhaps a problem will be solved a little earlier. Of course, you were also talking about contracts with Mr Lipič. I agree, it wasn't done in your time. You too, I must admit, do not ride with the Falcons like someone before you — which would also be interesting to open once, where the money went even when it was not the most pleasant times and who sat on that plane and drove a little around. But let's leave this to another session. It'll be interesting. Minister, the fact is we don't have a solution. Firstly, more resources are needed by the Slovenian Army. Second of all, we don't have a solution for members after 45. The trend is not changing, there are more departures than arrivals. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces need additional assistance in the form of humanitarian packages. It doesn't matter how many there are. I don't think it's appropriate for us to be dealing today with whether it's 100 or 150 or two tons of material. The fact is, they need them. The fact is, the Defense Act isn't on the table yet. The fact is that what you are preparing receives negative opinions from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Administration. The fact is that you have employees from several state secretaries – of course compared to another ministry. The fact is that payments are taking place in your ministry during the migration crisis, which is virtually unacceptable compared to the Ministry of the Interior. To tell you, those who were most burdened by the Ministry of the Interior, such as the Secretary of State during the moment of the twinkling crisis, did not receive a single hour's payment in any form. On the other hand, we have a man here who is literally a migrant earner. The money should be returned. Well, not just that. It is unacceptable that you hired the same person as your co-worker and he was not ashamed when he spoke to the public with a sign of Civil Protection literally in a function that is not professional and voluntary and, on the other hand, he received money and filled his pockets on this account. I think I just said eight things right now, plus talking about your driving park. And one more thing; it's unseemly when you compared your visit to Mali with some visit to Afghanistan. You know exactly how many members of the Slovenian Armed Forces were in Mali and how many members of the Slovenian Armed Forces were in Afghanistan. You've visited five members with such a team that they feared you for what was happening. Let me finish; I'll take four minutes if I need a replica at the end. But I don't think so, because not one of the things I've said is made of vines. And, Your Honor, what I said in the beginning, SD has been breaking this department too long. And the fact is that the youth editor's plan is being implemented, which he said, "We don't need the Slovenian army and we need to get rid of it." And that's what's happening. Otherwise in a soft way, but in a very painful way, at the expense of citizens and citizens. If you have such desires, then do it transparently, and let us see what the nation will do. And a new wave is coming. And earlier it was said that members go to hospitals or prefer to stay at home when they have young children — not because they would not be worth it, but because they actually need to be guarded; perhaps the partner deserves much more. That it will not happen that we will soon run out of people to protect our own country. But you, the minister and this government, are solely responsible for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Yes, after this session – now I have the honour to be the last, except for the proponent and, of course, the replica that he is already predicting and in view of the time that a colleague has prepared before me – I can only say that after this meeting, the person who has watched this session will probably have even fewer entries or you wanted to join the army because you are doing really anti, anti, anti-propaganda. But that's what you do. What you've staged today is nothing more than one set, I'm going to say the already well-known steps of the SDS that we really need to do everything for destruction. If it had happened by accident, but it would not have come to power tomorrow, these meetings would have disappeared from the agenda and all of a sudden it would have been in the Slovenian Army. It's a reality. But, Minister, I hope you're aware that after five hours, all you have to do is find out that you're about to have a new interpolation. We're already used to it because they're telling you this all the time. So I suggest that you use this session already to prepare yourself for these possible discussions with the proponents of this debate. Today, of course, I must say that these recommendations, which you have proposed and which I have read and what I have seen from the tapegram, what you have done on the committee, I can only say one thing: you have started to use the language that some people used before World War II in Bundestag when they were talking about who is responsible for some misery that is happening in Germany at that time. I hope that we will not work in Parliament in the same way that it was done. In order to make comparisons with the soldiers with the Roma See, this is the most abominable thing anyone can afford in the National Assembly, that various social groups and working groups – do a comparison between them and end up saying that they run away from the truth, what they actually do, and say, "faith, these are facts". [[…]] To get your voters elected, I understand, but to rub the crane between the Slovenian people and make a spread, it is the most abominable thing you can do. What's important to me is that when politics starts to interfere and abuse the Slovenian Army, it also interferes with the union and commits itself to the whole story – I'm glad that they're hanging here today even a session on the balcony, and they're monitoring it so it doesn't look like I'm talking past them – it's really just a ticking bomb. And that's worrying. In particular, the Defence Committee has become a hostage to the personal cases of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is wrong. The Defence Committee is dedicated to defence policy, not to personal cases by which we disqualify the entire army. But that's your way of thinking. That is why the moment you do this, your so-called positive purpose, what you want good for the Slovenian Army, is thrown into the trash because you walked it that instant. But that's what we're used to, I'm just afraid of where that's gonna lead, because you're stepping up and stepping up. On the other hand, you don't say that I've been waiting for you today when some bullets are going to give birth, like bullets are missing. [[…]] I remember one board meeting, when I was present, we were talking about bullets. But you don't say that this army is the fur of a lot of people who are working today in the National Assembly and competing in these competitions with Slovenian bullets from taxpayers and, I'll say, this is how it wants to show how successful it is at handling weapons. Let's say your employee, God's Chamberlain, was in second place in this competition. I don't mind him competing. But in cooperation with the Taist Slovenian Army, which you are tearing up, I have to say, but in a way it looks a little bit abominable already. You mentioned Falcone. Look, I'm telling you today -- I'm glad that Falcon is being used because the most terrifying thing is that Falcon is standing in place because you have higher costs with the Falcon standing in the garage, as if the Falcon is flying somewhere. Secondly, I'll tell you this: flying in a full falcon is cheaper than any other plane that buys a map, and you're still on a time-range to decide when the plane will get up and not wait for hours and days and I don't know what else to do. And go figure out this map, because it's a much cheaper flight. Besides, the pilots still have flight hours. They don't fly otherwise. I'm afraid they have to fly. Any way. But it is true that it is a matter for every policy to decide whether or not it will risk it. It's not my fault that Falcone bought himself many years ago. But falcon's here! That's the facts, you'd say in your language. That's the facts. And now, are we going to look at this falcon on the ground and yet the money runs, or at least it will be used. Well, that's, I'll say, thinking. In the end, let me say the next thing. Look, I was most disappointed when I read in the magnetogram how the unionist of the Taist army, whom you mentioned several times today, mentioned the next sentence. I must say, I was horrified when I saw it. Just to find the right paper. Yeah. I'm talking about Mr. Guidt Novak. I think Novak is Guido. "Looking at the campaign for the President of the United States and his words, he will work to ensure that all countries that do not give an agreed percentage for the defence forces – as soon as he becomes president, we will address him with one letter and, if possible, even go to him and capture him literally by word, to hold onto it." In other words, they should have already pushed Slovenia out of NATO because it's not paying enough money. You know, sometimes they called it, in another language they said, "Yes, it's a little strange to me, and I just have to say that I would move away from this way of thinking -- they used the military terminology and the expression quizling spread with an extremely peyorative meaning. You know, inviting leaders to do things to the detriment of their own country is the most negative thing that can happen. I mean, I wonder how he can speak for the Slovenian Army. And that's what you're defending. I'm sorry. I'm not doing this. But I know what I'd do if I had some authority, of course. And if there is, we can talk about it here. That's what I'm going to say about this fertility session of yours that didn't bring you anywhere. Let me finish with some facts. It is clear to me that this meeting is in the agenda of a major interpretation that has recently been held. And that you had to multiply all the events to make me look as black as possible. In one previous country, we had one commercial, which was nice and very liquid. "It's Jelovica," they said, "you won't make it." In fact, you try as hard as you want, but with every action you really do what you say you want the Slovenian Army's good, you really do it every minute. You want to work on it, go ahead. Just don't ask yourself where it came from.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much. You see how predictable a fellow Member is, so I've booked time before. Mr. Fellow Members, what you have enjoyed today is unacceptable for this time — not the year before 1940, when someone else was in another country, but for this time. You say we're not all the same before the law! It's the constitution, fellow Member of Parliament! Laws apply to all, whether rich or poor, what political affiliations are and not least what religious or otherwise. And that's what I'm talking about. We're not all the same before the law. And that you're looking for excuses here to turn it around. No, that's not Jelovica. [[…]] That's a shame. And go ahead. I agree, let the Falcon fly, but let it fly officially, let it fly for official visits and not for a ride I'm a little bit there. But I told you about it another time, maybe you'll tell me more. For me, the Falcon will be used when it is used for a clear path, for a clear purpose, and it will be known who will ride in it. However, I fully agree with you that the purchase was unnecessary, and if it is here, it is here. The fact is that it is also necessary to look once again at how much money we give to maintain this vessel, if I say so, and whether it really replaces everything that is so important that individual members then train flight hours. I think they'd be a lot cheaper in some other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnic, procedurally. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I must respond to some of the things Mr Jani Möderndorfer said. I wish I could say something meaningful. He didn't say anything about this topic that we have today or the agenda. But a colleague is an excellent rhetoricalist, and rhetoric covers everything up, and then people think, "Uh, because this one really knows something." So in every area that Jani talks about, it turns out for everyone, as if he really knows about him, because he's a great rhetoricalist and thank God that he does. The rhetoric covers everything. He said we were doing anti-propaganda. If the orientation of the facts is anti-propaganda, Comrade Möderndorfer, then the facts need to be changed and there will be no more anti-propaganda. I said it myself, she was doing an advertisement for the Slovenian Army. I came to them. I asked the young boys, "Will you go?".. They said, "we would go, but we know what the social situation is, what the social situation would be like when we went down to Vipava after school, say, the 1st Brigade of the Slovenian Army, that's why we don't go." Second. If we took power, these sessions would disappear from the agenda. No, you'd call them. We said, in the January programme, "If we come to power, the Slovenian Army will receive an additional EUR 50 million in the budget every year in four years." 50, 50, 50, 50, that says black on white. That's what we promised. The Committee is being abused on a case-by-case basis. I don't know if that's what the Committee on Culture thought when SMC called about TV Janez Janša or the Committee on Defence. If you thought of the Defence Committee, then let me tell you that the Defence Committee is in charge of the areas covered by the Ministry of Defence, in case it is as a mother's working body. If it is an interested working body, something else can be discussed. And it's not about individuals, one, two or three. 753 applications have been lodged, of which 225 have already been received in sample actions. That's 753 people. This isn't about individuals. However, I have already made it clear that in this term I have invited trade unions twice, they have been in two sessions, one together with a petition, three times in the National Assembly in two years. Mr Strukelj, since he is a state adviser, he can come to any committee of the Education Committee and interpret, interpret, there. No matter what the opinion of the State Council is, no one tells him anything. As for the shooting competition of veteran societies; it is the same with fighters, veterans of war for Slovenia and others. The Slovenian Army will sign a cooperation programme at the beginning of the year or likely at the end of the year for the following year. These organisations which have a veteran status simply send what they want, the ministry or committees or do not approve or approve in a particular part. The Minister of Defence is the one who has given 700 000 euros to veteran organisations for this year. And only as far as Mr. Guid Novak's writing to US President Donald Trump is concerned. When our government was here, we saw something like this. Forum 571 – we know what it is – was then defamed before the presidency by Prime Minister Janez Janša and the whole government. I have not heard your voice, Mr. Möderndorfer, that such things are not done.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a proposalr. Here you are, Mrs. Katich, Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u70	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! It has now been an obvious day that I have not answered, but I have waited – since there are so few of us here in Parliament, Mr Krivec, Mr Mahnic, Mrs Žibert – to answer all your questions. I didn't want this session to come to some kind of battlefield where we'd bet on who did something right, who did something wrong. We have discussed this in the past here on the Defence Committee as in Parliament, and I agree with those conclusions at the time that all governments are responsible for the fact that the situation in the Slovenian Army is as it is here today. And in all this debate and in view of all that has been said, let me also say that I have little doubt about the well-intention of the applicants. But still, given that we are here today, let us take this opportunity to get to know the public and to somehow convince them that we are moving on. But I have to answer a few things that have been exposed, and I've already said something. Once again, I say about the migrant crisis and Mr Šestana: I have said that because of everything that was, that we have ordered an inspection and that I will demand that if it is found that the funds have been misused unjustifiably, they will also return. That this system has also occurred because it has not been done in such a way that the Director of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection and Rescue of the Civil Protection Commander would also be. He is an official and then, as Mr Šefic would say, he would not get paid those hours when he makes them out of regular work as a public servant. Like, say, one secretary of state we have at the Ministry of Defence; we only have one, and this is Mr Bizjak. In this mandate, we have started to settle and will continue to settle. And with regard to this statement concerning Mr. Speaker, I did not know that he had fired, but they would tell me what it was about. At one of the previous meetings, we also discussed ammunition and also answered that we had to order ammunition. And as to where we are today, what happened, I am very sorry — but I understand the minister who was doing the job in front of me at the time — that it was a crisis that we were all committed to saving. But it is clear that in 2012 the most restrictive measures have been taken, which we are now doing somehow – but it is only right to eliminate them, because there is economic growth and because we have more resources at our disposal than they had at the time. And also about the construction of the battalion battle group; but I don't have to explain here about the Swarun, sorry, about Patria, that people will understand. It was already much said, written, but it was in 2012 that the contract for the acquisition of Patriye was terminated and that is why we do not have a medium-sized battalion fighting group or a motorised battalion fighting group built today; one was used, the other was used. As far as the means are concerned, I'd still say a little bit. In 2010, these were the best times, the defence spending amounted to EUR 583 million if I rounded up. In 2013 – €381 million and €382 million respectively, in 2014 – €366 million, in 2015 – €361 million. The evaluation of the implementation this year is EUR 388 million. In the budget for 2017, we have €384 million and the budget for 2018 – €403,849 million. So the government stopped the decline in funds. Of course, given everything that has been said, much more could be meant for defence, but we are aware of the public financial framework, and in this context we are also looking for all our options. But let me still take advantage of this session for something useful, and that in view of that – even if we are Members, because there are so many of us, they do not listen here, but I believe that the public is watching this – I present the work of the soldiers because I believe that the public is not so well aware and that I am also putting myself in their defence. When NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg visited Slovenia as well as at meetings, at the mysteries of both NATO and the European Union, Slovenian soldiers and soldiers receive praise for their participation in international operations and missions, as well as for all their other contributions. And so Stoltenberg said in Slovenia and so said SACEUR or NATO Force Commander for Europe, as Mr Dolinšek also thought. But still, allow me this opportunity. The position of soldier 2 is classified in the 20th pay grade. For deployment to this post, the candidate must have at least a secondary vocational education, must meet the demanding special conditions for professional work in the Slovenian Army – we are talking about the health capacity for military service, the prohibition of dual citizenship, security verification and also non-pension – and for the duration of service in the professional composition to waive the exercise of certain rights enjoyed by citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a prohibition of political parties, a prohibition of strike, restrictions on additional works and the like. The candidate must carry out demanding basic military training and basic military training in relation to military record-keeping. In accordance with the requirements of the service, it must be continuously further trained and continuously achieve the required psychophysical readiness and skill. During the course of his work, the soldier must be prepared to work under specific conditions of work, including overtime, night work, work on Sundays and holidays, work in divided and uneven working hours, field work, job readiness in a particular place or home, availability, stay in a military unit or a specific place. A multi-day or multi-week uninterrupted presence in the unit without the possibility of going home is part of a regular way of working as a soldier. Members shall be assigned to formational duties in accordance with the needs of the service by order without their consent and shall not be subject to restrictions on the distance to the new job. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces shall participate in international operations and missions on the basis of an order, without their consent being necessary. At that time, they are absent from home, which also has a profound impact on their private lives. The contract of employment for soldiers is for a certain period of time and may be extended until the age of 45, which is specific to other public servants. The soldier carries out his service under heavy physical burdens as he carries out his work with military equipment. The basic combat equipment weighs 13 kilograms. A helmet, a protective vest, a protective mask, an engineering shovel, an automatic rifle with no ammunition, equipment for carrying another combat cargo. So the soldier performs tasks under constant stress — if we count everything else — at least 15 kilograms. The soldier performs tasks under constant stress, in a dangerous environment where direct attacks with weapons or mine-explosive means can endanger his life under all climatic and weather conditions, often without the possibility of weather protection, and for a longer period of work and stays in the group, which prevents any privacy. The training for the execution of tasks is much closer to the expected operational and workload conditions and, as a highlight of the training, includes movements of units with the simultaneous operation of all arms systems, including at night. The soldier shall have in peace the power to use lethal force, weaponry in carrying out a guard's or similar service, unless he can otherwise protect a protected object, asset or unit. In order to assist the police in the wider protection of the state border, the soldier may exercise certain powers specific to the police. While performing tasks in international operations and missions abroad, the military has powers in accordance with the rules of operation of the operation and the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which may cover most of the powers exercised in the Republic of Slovenia by the police and by other state authorities. In fact, the Slovenian army has already exercised such powers within its international operations and missions. In doing so, the soldier shall carry out tasks involving such powers in situations where, due to instability and danger, the police are unable to properly manage these tasks. In the war, the soldier has the power to use the deadly force to carry out his duties under the international law of armed conflict. At the same time, it is important that the fighting since the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO is no longer limited to the defence of the integrity and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, but that the collective defence action is carried out on the territory of any member of NATO. It is therefore possible for the Slovenian Armed Forces to engage in combat also in a war which does not take place directly in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore does not involve any other State authorities of the Republic of Slovenia indirectly. This particularity is important in the evaluation of jobs, as there is a rather widespread belief that in the event of a war a general military obligation will be imposed in any case and that all state authorities will participate in the war and that the evaluation of the profession of soldiers should be considered only from the point of view of the implementation of the tasks in peace. The Lieutenant must fulfil similar conditions for the professional service of military service as a soldier, work under the same conditions and under similar physical burdens. It shall have the same powers as a soldier and shall determine the exercise of the powers given to it. In addition to basic military training, he must also conduct a school for officers. The lieutenant's commanding up to 40 men. Because of responsibility for his subordinates, the lieutenant is under greater psychological pressure than a soldier; the lieutenant plans, organizes, leads and supervises the work in the water. The basic principle of command of the Slovenian Armed Forces is command on the basis of mission, which means that the Lieutenant is independently searching and implementing tactical solutions in accordance with doctrine and professional standards within the given task. It shall be responsible for the competence of the water and for the legitimate performance of the tasks of the water irrespective of the type of operation. In the fight it plans, organizes and manages a fire-fired water system with added support systems. He shall be responsible for the welfare of the subordinates and for their conduct under his command responsibility. According to the scope of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the platoon is a common unit which is independently deployed to international operations and missions and placed within the framework of a higher foreign unit. In such a case, the Lieutenant shall be directly subordinated to a foreign commander and shall carry out his duties in accordance with the orders of that Commander. In doing so, it must pay attention to the differences in powers and restrictions that differ between the various armies and must not carry out tasks that go beyond the powers or restrictions conferred on the Slovenian Army. I said this because I want to argue the comparability established in 2007 and 2008 between members of the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian police. And here I also have to take in the defense of members of the Slovenian Army, because it was said how many of them are in the hospital, and give information only for the last week: 14. 11. There were 116 members in the hospital of 6 thousand 955, 15. 11. - 82, 16. 11. - 60, 17. 11. - 69, 18. 11. - 42. On average, this number is said to be about 60 members and members. And it is not true that they are not motivated, despite all that they are facing and for which I hope, and I think that we are here today to improve their situation, not to see what someone has done or has not done in the past. About our suggestions. I made a detailed presentation in the introduction, yet again. We have already proposed amendments to the Civil Service Act. We have proposed that, after 45 years of age, when providing employment within the framework of the state administration, the fixed-term employment will be transformed into permanent employment. We proposed an amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act in order to maintain the paid grade for soldiers after the age of 45 when they are employed in the State Administration. And both proposals were made by lawmakers, that is, the Ministry of Public Administration, adopted and, according to our data, awaited the start of negotiations with the unions. These proposed solutions would complement the sequence of rights already enjoyed by soldiers in connection with the cessation of military service at a certain age and would also provide them with adequate social status beyond this period. And if I only point out the most fundamental solutions to the proposal for a new Defence Act and a new Service Act in the Slovenian Army. The Defence Act, which provides for the cessation of the employment relationship in the defence field in order to fulfil the conditions for obtaining the right to old age pension, shall be in accordance with the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces would be compared to other professions, with the police, in which professional retirement is granted, in such a way that their working relationship in the defence field ends by the end of the year in which they complete the conditions for a retirement pension. This means that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces will decide voluntarily whether to retire professionally or continue to work until the conditions for a retirement pension are met. The law will propose supplements to pay for the prohibitions applicable to soldiers, this is about the prohibition of strike and the prohibition of political action. I believe that we will not find a common language here with union representatives who want to be able to strike in the military, but there is no such case in comparable armies. And as for the proposal for a new Service Act in the Slovenian Army. The rights of soldiers with regard to the addition to permanence and readiness will be aligned with the rights of police officers, which have been proposed in the amendments to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. The old age allowance is thus expected to increase to 0.5%, the willingness at the workplace and elsewhere is expected to be 50% and 20% at home. An allowance of 10% will be proposed for those who will enter into fixed-term contracts. This has already been the case in the current law, but the Public Sector Wages Act has overtaken it. Solutions will also be complemented with regard to integrated care for a member; in addition to the rights already guaranteed, we will also allow military personnel to buy apartments after a certain period of time. The rights of family members at the time of the death or disability of a military person to perform military service will also be in line with the rights of police officers. As far as the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army and employment are concerned, we currently have 6 000 955 professional employees. In the last year, we have hired 192 professional members so far, and we expect to reach the number of about 220 to 240 members by the end of the year. In view of the applications, 736 applications for employment were granted at the end of 2015. We've made 265 jobs. 381 candidates left the army. By the end of 2016, we are expected to have 620 applications and to conclude up to 240 employment contracts, which means, of course, that in the Slovenian Army, not everyone can be employed in order to meet certain conditions; health conditions are also most difficult. However, at this time we were one of my first things was that I had formed a special working group, which was led by a chief, composed of representatives of the Slovenian Army and also an administrative part of the Ministry, to see what could be done in order to allow as many candidates as possible to be employed in the Slovenian Army. [[…]] And we've raised the age limit for soldiers from 25 to 27. The possibility of signing a contract of employment for professional soldiers for 10 years and thus obtaining the award of the five average gross wages in the Republic of Slovenia. We also employ interested PSVR soldiers. We have reduced the duration of the selection procedures – from the application of the candidate to the signing of the contract to a maximum of 30 to 60 days. We conducted additional interviews on departures; we have a personal conversation with each member who wants to leave the employment relationship. Directly targeted recruitment of soldiers has been introduced. We have reduced the requirements for the extension of employment contracts. We extend the contracts depending on the official assessments with a view to paying the prizes when extended in accordance with the Regulation. We keep soldiers after 45 years in the Slovenian Army system as civil servants or military personnel. The career paths of soldiers have been changed. We are employed on initial duties without pre-delivery duties in the infantry. We divide the soldiers, taking into account their interest and education, of course in line with the needs of the Slovenian Army, and in a relatively short time – within 10 days of a positive medical certificate – there are also contracts of employment with all candidates for soldiers. And for the promotion, as it was said, that we are spending millions In my time, in 2015 we spent 73 000 703 euros for promotion, in 2016 – 112 thousand 963. [[...]] But if you think all of this is in millions of euros, then I will commend my colleagues and colleagues who are doing it themselves to really do a very good job. But the conclusion is that if we want to get a sufficient number of employees in the Slovenian Army, that is probably the biggest obstacle to wages, in addition to all other restrictions and difficult working conditions. And that it is necessary to strive to raise wages comparable to police officers. And about Karitas Military Vicariat, which has been said many times today. Karitas was founded in 2012. As early as 2013, packages were distributed, in 2014. However, I believe that the distribution of these packages has not received as much attention in Parliament as it is today, but I feel for them. In addition, we have other types of assistance to members if they only ask for it, and we will continue to do so in the future. However, we hope to improve their situation as well. There have been questions as to what measures have been taken to reduce administrative work in recent years. The Ministry of Defence, and I have said this many times, has been downsizing the number of employees in administrative work for a number of years and has not exceeded the number of employees established by the Common Staff Plan since 2009. In some years, the number was even lower than the number of employees allowed. In accordance with the restrictions, during the period from 31. 12. 2009 to 22. 11. 2016 Number of employees at the Ministry of Defence with the authorities in the composition Here I must say that in the Ministry of Defence there are also the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, the Intelligence Security Service, two inspectorates and that this should be counted in this proportion of employees. And when we debated at one of the Committee's meetings, we said that, according to Nat's research, we are completely comparable compared to other countries, but still. Thus, the number of employees in the Ministry with the authorities in the composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces has decreased by 205 civil servants, which is 15.4% or on average 2.6% per year. The main part of that reduction relates to a narrower administrative section, while the number of employees in the bodies in the administrative component I listed has not changed significantly during this period. From the point of view of the number of employees in the smaller administrative area, we find a reduction of good 30%. In 2009, a total of thousands of 82 employees were employed in administrative work without authorities, in line with the methodology for counting according to the staffing plan, with the trainees employed by 737 civil servants today. With the exception of 2016 due to the migration crisis, the salary weight for the administrative part has been decreasing all the time. However, given the adopted Act on wage measures and other labour costs for 2016 and other measures in the public sector, the Ministry of Defence will see an increase in labour costs in the financial plan for 2017 totalling EUR 5 million for the Slovenian Army for more than EUR 3.7 million and for the administrative part of some more than EUR 800 000. In December 2016, this next month, a thousand 588 Ministry of Defence workers will be making progress, increasing wages by 2.26 million euros, of which there are thousands of 414 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Wages are increased by €1.98 million and 164 workers in the administrative department. In addition to progress, the positive financial impact on wages in 2017 also has a change in the salary scale established by September of this year. The decompression of the salary scale means an increase of €2.3 million in labour costs in the Morse, of which €1.8 million for the Slovenian Army and €500,000 in administrative work. In the debate, we touched the army. The decision on the professional army was made in the past. In 2003, we completed our compulsory military service. Of course, the Ministry of Defence is monitoring arrangements in other countries today, including the changes introduced by these countries. We're doing everything we can to get as many candidates to volunteer military service as possible. However, I certainly believe that it will be up to date in the coming period – but citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia must decide on how to serve the military period. And if I say so only about volunteering for military service. It was introduced in 2004 as the right of all citizens and citizens and, of course, represents an important segment in employment in the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces and also in the provision of personnel for the contractual reserve. In 2015, 74 candidates were deployed; 52 were successfully completed, of which 16 candidates were employed in the Slovenian Army. In 2016, 77 candidates were posted and 21 were successfully completed and 33 were still serving until 16. 12. So far, three of the successful graduates have been employed and 10 are still in the process of employment. Since 2012, there has been a significant decline in the interest of young people in referring to voluntary military service, and we have also taken certain measures to improve the situation this year. The number of possible posted candidates will not be limited as it has been so far. The number of referrals will increase from 1 to 3: in March, June and September. The number of locations will be served from two – currently two because we have already introduced the location both in Vipava and New Town, in the past only in Vipava – extended to Bohinjska white and Maribor or to suitable units proposed by the Slovenian Army. An amendment to the Military Voluntary Service Regulation is also being prepared in order to gradually increase the financial benefits again to those participating in voluntary military service. There is a concept that sets out the objectives and purposes of voluntary military service, and I believe that we can report this to the Defence Committee at one of the meetings. And if we look at it, every year, the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Defence Administrations will familiarize all those who are 18 years of age in that year with the military obligation. More than 140,000 young people have been informed since 2004 at the time of the implementation of the briefings, of which 79.1% of all those informed took part personally. In 2016, 9 000 318 military taxpayers were invited to the briefing, with a personal response of 7088, which is 76.1%. At the same time, the events are intended to promote all activities, all that the Slovenian Armed Forces does, in order to obtain as many personnel as possible, and to present them with equipment, weapons and the profession of the Slovenian soldier. And the most important thing I think and want to share with you are the conclusions of the Strategic Defense Review. And here I would repeat what we said at one of the previous meetings, perhaps not today, that the situation in which the Slovenian Army is today reflects not only the reduction of financial resources and the reflection of the work of this government, but all the past. It is therefore important that we be alone in the future measures we will implement, and that all the following governments will then implement them. And if I just jump to conclusions quickly. First of all, the main objective of the Strategic Review of Defence; if I am not mistaken, I am not mistaken, you have also suggested that the Strategic Review of Defence be carried out. At the time, we said that we did not need to take this decision because we were already doing it. And today I'd like to introduce you to the results. The main objective of the Strategic Defence Review is to propose the measures and activities necessary to ensure the defence capacity of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the national interests and objectives in the defence area defined in the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and the Resolution on the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025. The Strategic Defence Review provides answers to the question whether the organisation and functioning of the defence system and the defence capabilities of the Republic of Slovenia provide the country's response and capacity to face future security threats and risks. The level of development of the defence system and its capabilities in relation to current national defence ambitions, in relation to international commitments and declared capacities is assessed. The Strategic Defence Review is the basis for guiding the further development of the defence system and its capabilities in order to be able to act effectively in accordance with its mission. The findings and proposed measures provide a starting point for complementing normative and strategic guidance documents. But forgive me, some of the obviouss were that we were doing another review and some resolution and some document but modern armies and I think that the modern country must also have clearly defined goals and also develop in this direction. [[…]] And the conclusions of the strategic review are both a tool for me and the chiefs so that we can make the necessary changes that need to be made in the Slovenian Army or in the Ministry of Defence, as well as in amending legislation. At the same time, the Defence Act, as well as the Law in the Service in the Slovenian Army, was created, which takes into account the proposals of the Strategic Review of Defence. If, in view of the fact that this was also the case today, all the indications about the readiness of the Slovenian Army were touched. The Defence System of the Republic of Slovenia provides a transition to a defence crisis and a gradual transition to war. The strategic review of the defence highlighted the gap between the state's achieved and planned level of defence capability. The lower level of defence capability than planned is reflected in the limited capacity to operate in high intensity operations and the lack of certain mechanisms to raise the country's resilience to new forms of threat. The Slovenian Armed Forces shall ensure the readiness of the EU-NATO intervention forces and the planned level of preparedness to respond in the event of natural and other disasters and to cooperate in the protection and resolution. It shall also be prepared within the framework of its competences to be involved, where appropriate, in the performance of all security tasks. The Slovenian military has limited capacity to carry out its mission and assigned tasks at home and outside the national territory to the extent required in the full range of hostilities. Existing human resources and material resources and its level of sustainability make it difficult to operate in the most demanding combat situations and therefore its operation is linked to a higher risk of effectiveness in the performance of assigned tasks and potential victims, which does not mean that it cannot participate in other combat situations. In view of the multi-annual reduction in defence expenditure, the Ministry of Defence cannot establish all military capacity within the deadlines defined by the Resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025 and the objectives of NATO 2013 for the Republic of Slovenia. Given the projection of financial resources by 2020, Slovenia will not be able to make significant positive changes in the construction of defence capacity for its own defence or collective defence cooperation in the event of military threats. And it is the termination of the contract and the lack of delivery of vehicles, as I said earlier, that is one of the most difficult financial supplies in the coming period. And the main reasons that have also been said that preparedness and ability to face future security risks and threats in the Republic of Slovenia are not planned: Firstly, the reduction of funding for defence purposes. Secondly, the incomplete implementation of political orientations, strategies and doctrines, the important part of which is also conditional on material resources. Thirdly, the unfinished project of the professional army, supplemented by a contractual reserve. And fourthly, formal failure and thus the substantive non-implementation of the 2009 Strategic Review of the Defence Department. But all of this is backed up by a series of analyses as well as a series of measures. And if we say only quickly, the main objectives of the further development of the defence system and the defence capabilities of the Republic of Slovenia arising from the findings of the Strategic Review of Defence are: Firstly, to ensure the necessary defence capabilities of the country. Secondly, greater resilience of the state and society to security threats. Thirdly, improving preparedness, sustainability of the Slovenian Army. Fourthly, the achievement of common objectives and commitments within the EU and NATO. They are crucial: a significant increase in the defence budget with predictable dynamics, consistency in the implementation of our own commitments, decisions and orientations resulting from the strategic and planning documents adopted – is said to be a comprehensive approach to ensuring the necessary systemic conditions for the operation of the professional army and the ability to respond to new potential security threats and challenges, not as has been the case in the past. We will also present all this to the Ministry of Finance. I have a meeting with the Minister of Finance next week. Of course, on the one hand, it is a topic of how to improve the social status of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and on the other hand how to find a way forward. All of this is also supported by the numbers needed for the next period, when we also agree on the objectives of capacity for the next period – that is to say what we need to achieve under NATO’s commitment – will also show how much resources we need in this period in order to be able to do so. And I hope that all future governments will then follow this path. However, I believe that we will start this path in 2017, in 2018, and we will also come to the execution of individual actions. There were questions about the status of soldiers after 45 years. I've put this here many times before, and now [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I beg your pardon? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, already existing solutions. Maybe I have to apologize for reading. [[…]] That's the kind of information that I have to be very careful not to have someone say I read the wrong information. Some may simply mention what is read in a newspaper. The rights of soldiers who, due to their age of 45 years, cannot extend contracts of employment in the Slovenian Army are quite fully regulated by the current Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. On the basis of those rules, they have already been granted the following rights: the right to be allocated to the relevant work of the Ministry or other State authority. If there are no spare parts from the previous indent in the Ministry or other State authority, the soldier shall have the right to a civil profession and the right to a retirement if he has worked at the Ministry for at least 15 years. The right to training for the civil profession shall cover the costs of education or retraining or other types of training that lasts for a maximum period of 3 years after the age of 45. If the soldier refuses to deploy from the preceding indent, after the expiry of the contractual period, he shall not be entitled to a civil profession and not to a right of retirement. Next. If there are no spare parts available in the Ministry or another national authority to which a soldier could be deployed who, after the termination of the employment contract, does not wish to be trained for a civil profession by means of education or retraining, he may be employed by any employer. In this case, the soldier has the right to a pension, an employer who employs such a soldier for at least five years at the latest within one year of the suspension of the image at the Ministry, has the right to pay the contributions from the salaries and salaries of the Ministry for the first three years of employment or for 5 years if the soldier is employed for 10 years. The Ministry may agree that, in addition to the termination of the employment contract at the Ministry, the Ministry will receive one more amount of funds that the Ministry would pay to the employer within five years as a refund on contributions from the salary and on the salary of the soldier. In this case, a military person cannot ask the Ministry of Additional Rights or a retraining for the civil profession. So far, due to the small number of such soldiers, the problem has not been highlighted, as it has been possible for all soldiers who wanted to do so to arrange the redeployment to other jobs within the Ministry or other state bodies. The rights of soldiers who, due to their age of 45 years, cannot be extended by the Slovenian Armed Forces, are, in principle, properly regulated, as they set out the following rights that enable soldiers to seek other employment under more favourable conditions than those in force on the labour market. However, experience so far shows the need to complement existing solutions in certain parts. And in the context of the reform of public service legislation, I have already stated once again, I am trying to put in place solutions which would allow soldiers, once they have completed their legal age, to transform a fixed-term working relationship into a fixed-term working relationship, without public competition or publication. And as part of the envisaged amendments to the Public Sector Wages Act, we are also trying to eliminate the anomaly when soldiers lose all advances in the pay grade when reassigned to another job or to another wage group. But we will also talk about this, I believe that we still have much to talk about in the framework of the Defence and Service Act in the Slovenian Army. About the uniforms. At one of the previous board meetings, I have explained in more detail how the purchases of uniforms, protective equipment, are taking place. And since it was a question, one more time. In 2011-2013, the contract was concluded in 2011, and 3 000 500 sets of new combat uniforms were delivered worth EUR 5.5 million and the completion of missing items worth EUR 800,000, totalling EUR 6.3 million. In 2014, it was the completion of the missing items, €750,000. In 2015 it was delivered In 2015 and in early 2016 2 000 300 new combat uniforms worth EUR 4 million and fabric worth EUR 500 000, total EUR 4.5 million. [[…]] And that's being distributed right now. The distribution of the equipment delivered and when and in what way the equipment is distributed is within the competence of the military; they have a rulebook and I believe that they work within it. I also believe that they will propose amendments if they consider this to be necessary. In 2016, we have a 2016–2018 framework agreement worth EUR 11.6 million. Currently missing items are ordered to be completed worth 500 000 euros. Delivery will be within two weeks, which will also allow the equipment to be completed by approximately 1,000 members. In 2017, an order of at least €4.1 million, which is a thousand 200 new combat uniforms plus a thousand 800 members, will also complete the missing items. Order lists under framework agreements are already signed and delivery will take place from January 2017 onwards. So, together in this mandate for €5.7 million plus €4.1 million for 2017, it totals €9.8 million. And when the issue of the quality of the fabric was raised; in all those years, no complaints were made by the Slovenian Armed Forces concerning the items supplied with the new combat uniform, including footwear, which provides that the articles delivered were in line with the requirements of the contracting authority and that they acted in accordance with expectations when used. However, given what has been said in public that the grammar of the fabric acquired in the past does not provide sufficient stability for the expected period, purchases have already been made in 2015 with a new, different grammatura of fabric, which we expect to demonstrate appropriate stability. But whenever any public procurement is prepared, when all the documents in this public contract are also prepared, the group is composed of both members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and also from the administrative work, and together they carry out the procedure. With regard to the modernisation of the rolling stock. On the basis of an in-depth analysis of the Ministry's rolling stock, on the reliability of operation, the costs of use and maintenance and the removal of vehicles from operational use, it is said that I am talking about regular annual write-offs, the Ministry adopted a phase-out fleet recovery strategy in 2014 with investment documents. The investment document assessed that budget resources for the use and maintenance of existing vehicles could be more cost-effective and efficient. And funding for the purchase of new vehicles, both for the purposes of the Slovenian Armed Forces and for the administrative part of the Ministry of Defence, except for the USSR, was provided through the sale of unnecessary real estate and movable property and, for the purposes of the USSR, partly from the regular budget and partly from European funds. During the period 2014-2016, more than 310 different vehicles were permanently excluded from use, which were almost entirely sold in public countries. The gradual reduction or rationalisation of the rolling stock was also foreseen in the investment document. Thus, in 2015 and 2016, a total of 189 vehicles totalled €3.1 million; €2.35 million in 2015 and €750 million in 2016, namely: 102 vehicles for the Slovenian Army – 60 vehicles for the Renault Megane, 5 opel insignia, 25 Citroën Berlingo, 12 Renault hit – fully paid from the dedicated items, 5 vehicles for the purposes of diplomatic representation abroad, fully paid from the dedicated items, 31 vehicles for the purposes of the URSZR – 15 vehicles for the Renault megane, 1 vehicle for the purpose of the opel insignia, 15 reault hit – meganes paid from the regular budget, and 2 vehicles from the European funds – and 51 vehicles for the purposes of the administrative part of the Ministry – the majority of the benefits of the rolling stock of the ministry: 35 vehicles reault megane and 8 rounds of the vehicle – pay the electric fare of the vehicles, 2 cars up to the car – 2 cars – up to the number of the total. Savings and other positive effects were achieved at the time of the project; I believe they also showed the state of cars on TV. Repair and maintenance costs have decreased, new vehicles are guaranteed from 4 to 6 years and virtually there will be no need to provide repair resources at that time. In the past, these costs at the annual level were also over 1,000 euros. Costs of basic maintenance, service are minimal. Average fuel consumption decreased by 30%. Other savings are: the reduction in the number of technical inspections since technical inspections are not necessary in the first three years, the reduction of the requirements for tyres and accumulators – the purchase of new vehicles has also resulted in the purchase of winter tyres – the safety of members of the Slovenian Army and employees from the administrative department in the use of service vehicles, as well as other road users, and the purchase of vehicles has also achieved favourable prices, which is a significant discount in relation to official prices. And as far as the vehicles are concerned, beemve. The vehicles we used for these purposes, which was Audi A6, were, were, were 10 and 11 years old, unreliable and in recent years there have been a lot of damage and repair costs were also over EUR 5,000 per year. The A6 vehicle used by ministers over the past 11 years, which is 6 ministers, has transported 345 thousand kilometres. Vehicles were procured through joint public procurement or invitation to tender by the Ministry of Public Administration. Vehicles shall also be designed for protocol purposes and shall be equipped with such equipment as may be appropriate. And here too, depending on how much it took to maintain them, great savings will be made. And I'm happy to give up this car if you think not only my safety but also those who drive me can be questioned. As far as two electric vehicles are concerned, the Renault Zoe. The vehicles will be used in the Ministry's common car park mainly for courier purposes. The price of one vehicle is €25,000, with the Eco Fund reimbursed about €6,000 500 and we estimate that this investment will be reimbursed within four years according to the estimated number of kilometres transported. And given that I still have time, I would still use it to present to you the key achievements of the Slovenian Armed Forces in 2016, as prepared by the Chief of Staff on training. In 2016, the Slovenian Armed Forces increased the overall number of international activities by 10% compared to 2015 and thus contributed through collective training and exercises to increasing the interoperability of the Slovenian Armed Forces and its troops. In 2016 we first connected the national exercise of the Slovenian Army Adriatic Strike with the NATO exercise Ramstein Dust. For the purposes of the combined training we have introduced air weeks, the English Air Week with international participation. We have placed tank platoons in the composition of the Joint Military Training Centre and have thereby substantially raised the level of training of armoured units. About education. In the school year 2015/2016, we started with the higher training of Slovenian Army officers in connection with the second Bologna level with public educational institutions. And in the school year 2016/2017 we also started a higher education for undergraduate staff in connection with the public educational institution. It's about building capacity. In 2016, the Slovenian Armed Forces successfully built the capacity of a materialised battalion fighting group as a self-sufficient and self-sufficient capacity designed for a certain period of time and trained to operate throughout the entire range of combat activities, with the exception of special. In early 2016, the competent NATO Command carried out a verification of the preparedness and certification of the capacity of the transferable unit for helicopter medical evacuation MEDEVAC. Capacity is included in the composition of the NATO Rapid Intervention Force in 2016. It's a united fire guidance school. In 2016, the AGOS regional school is certified and thus the training capacity of joint fire routers has been achieved. We have already completed the first regional course of the school with international participation. JRCBO's ability. In 2016, the Slovenian Army also built individual modules for the development of the JRKBO battalion capacity. And with regard to maintenance of built capacity, such as a group of anti-mine divers, NUS waters and the like; this has also been done. As far as international operations and missions are concerned. Throughout 2016, the Slovenian Army successfully operated in 11 international operations and missions. The current number of members of international operations and missions is 314. In mid-April, Triglav returned after four and a half months in operation EUNAVFOR Mediterranean or Sophia. In March 2016, Slovenia increased the number of members in EUTM Mali, responding to France's request for more active participation in the fight against terrorism. In May 2016, in KFOR, we increased the number of members in the liaison groups from 6 to 9 and thus met the requirements of KFOR Commander because of the transformation of forces here. We also successfully completed the helicopter operation in October. In June 2016, the Slovenian Army officer took over the management of the NATO Liaison Office in Skopje, which we believe is a very, very great success. And also in this way we have somehow fulfilled the commitment we have made to Macedonia, that Slovenia will also help to acquire functions, where it can then help to advise how Macedonia should develop its forces. In 2016, we successfully planned and started participating in a new international mission operation in Kurdistan, Iraq, with six representatives. We're involved in training Iraqi pedestrians. As far as protection and rescue is concerned, the provision of emergency medical care: a total of 150 interventions. In 2016, 322 accidents were transported. Regarding mountain rescue: 179 interventions in 2016, I am speaking for a certain period. Extinguishing: 23 interventions – Bell 412 helicopter with Cougar and PC-6 aircraft – a total of 120 hours and 50 minutes inbound, dumped 900 000 cubic metres of water. In Slovenia Transplant: 10 transports in 2016 by plane Falcon. During the last period it is necessary to say that the Slovenian Army is almost entirely covering helicopter emergency medical care in Brnik because the Slovenian police have diverted their forces to Maribor or have had their helicopters for some time in repair. As regards assistance in managing the migration crisis. In 2016, under the Defence and Decisions Act, the Slovenian Armed Forces continued to support state authorities carrying out specific activities related to the management of the migration crisis. And also currently the Slovenian Army offers assistance to a lesser extent. Currently, we provide 13 patrols for the Ministry of the Interior to protect the state border in two shifts after 12 hours in the 24/7 regime. And for Civil Protection, we provide the capabilities that Civil Protection maintains for possible re-negotiation. That's it. I believe that in these few minutes I have still been able to say and answer the questions that have been raised. Above all, I believe that I have presented the work of the Slovenian Army to the public, as far as the audience sees our transmission, given that there is still no such interest among Members, and that they will actually judge everything that is said, as it is written. Above all, we will also have the support of the public, which will still be necessary not only to this government but also to all futures to guide the development of the Slovenian Army in the direction that is also urgently needed for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I've been listening to the Minister this hour. First of all, Minister, it's not true that some of us are talking because we're talking in three days. Some of you need tickets, others we don't need. We speak information that we are familiar with in one way or another [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] It's procedural, and I'm asking you to let me finish. To tell you the whole story! And so I ask you, Madam President, to remind the Minister that if anyone speaks to the idea that it does not mean that he is saying something in three beautiful. It's true, Minister, you haven't answered a single question. You said everything else. You were talking about what a Slovenian soldier was doing. And it's true, it's all done and probably more. But you spit in your own bowl. For you do not provide them with money, but we have heard half an hour of your debate about what must be done by the Slovenian soldier.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Of course, I will not warn you because the Minister has answered a number of questions in depth and has a right in her own time, so please, procedurally. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u74	President, you didn't listen to me. The minister said that she would read that she would not be able to think, because those of us who are talking to each other are saying something like that, and that she must say things in concrete terms. And I'm not gonna let that happen. I don't allow it, and someone just can't say that if someone's talking in their head, they're saying something in three days. The Minister cannot afford this either, because he knows exactly that the data come from the situation in the Slovenian Army. And yes, the formal secretary no longer has one secretary of state. However, she did not say how much she had raised her salaries to almost the level of State secretaries and how many of them she had employed. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u75	This isn't procedural. Is the debate [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u76	I keep going, I've told you what is procedural for me, so please remind the Minister that those who speak in mind don't mean we're talking in three days. [[…]] I'm not gonna let that happen. And that's why you have to warn her, Chairman. You have an obligation to protect Members of Parliament. And now I don't know if first-class readers are going to be second-rate speakers, or whether it's going to be irrelevant. And so, everyone has their own way of performing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President. First, thank the Minister for this demonstration and the proof of how it can be the Minister of the Government of Mira Cerar, that you don't even need any powers, you need the support staff that you have at the Ministry or here in the National Assembly to accompany a five-hour meeting, you write the answers, you prepare all the data, the secretary brings you a bunch of papers, and then you as a minister just read it. In short, we can all be ministers in this way – from the time-governing gentleman to us Members, to the professional lady sitting there. So much for our ministers. The Minister asked herself about the well-intention of the applicant. We can ask ourselves about the well-intentioned minister. We have been constantly warning for two years that everything is wrong, the Minister is with those three, four, what is proposed and there are no results. And so, until the results are achieved, we will change tactics in the future; after the new year, if things do not improve, we will not come up with recommendations with extraordinary meetings, but with concrete proposals in the form of laws. The minister manipulated well when she said we wanted to show the Slovenian Army in bad shape. That's not true at all. That's not true at all. We know – every time we've talked about the army so far, we've said that our soldiers are great, but they're not responsible for themselves, that they're members of such an army that has a rating that's not enough. They are not themselves guilty of being less trained than their colleagues because the programme is the same as it is because the programme is so based on financial resources. Slovenian soldiers do not determine how much funding the Slovenian Army will receive and how many others. And an interesting article was here in Dinner: "Just a satisfied soldier of good promotion." I will read a quote from the former Minister, now and earlier members of the Social Democrats Dr Ljubica Jelusic: "The military has started to technologically deteriorate and modern technologies are no longer a factor in attracting those young people who have been more technically oriented and have seen in the military the space of fulfilling their wishes to work with technology. It explains and emphasises that wages are disproportionately low compared to the energy to be invested in military service. Above all, the military is less and less present in peacekeeping operations, where it represents the soldier's salary three times the military salary on domestic soil. Years ago, military employment was sought by those who had completed secondary vocational education in technical directions. There is now a great demand for them in the labour market, and the army has become uncompetitive with the pay it offers and with the additional experience you receive during your work." If the former minister here said that the military has started to deteriorate technologically because modern technologies are no longer a factor We can agree that the new Renault is a megane and a new insignia of some technological progress, that it is technologically developed – certainly more than previous models – but probably not in such a way as to attract these young engineers and techniques to the Slovenian Army. [[...]] But if we had different equipment, different equipment in terms of technological refinement, there would be a lot of it. Under the line, the Slovenian Army faces a financial, material and human resources problem. We've talked about financials a lot, material as well, but it's the result. We've talked a lot about people, and that's why a lot of people don't make decisions. We've seen how they're going to send you a question on Monday, not to you, not to the government, what's the government's attitude. [[…]] We saw a presentation yesterday about how the emblem was used or how the sign of the Slovenian Army was misused – half the sign of the Slovenian Army, half the five-carved red star, symbol of the Territorial Defense. You probably know, Chief, what a symbol of the Territorial Defense was — not one and not the other. But the government is looking at it calmly. Previously mentioned was the school, the headquarters school, the command and control school. I don't know what kind of example people are setting there: Colonel Peček, Colonel Zanoškar, Colonel Jankovic, all of these are people who have never joined the Slovenian side who have been to the end of the Yugoslav People's Army. It's also a factor, some kind of motivator. How can we expect some normal views and the values of the Slovenian soldier, if he has colonels in the Slovenian Army, even a Brigadier who have never joined the Slovenian side or crossed the border date? And the Ministry of Defence doesn't do much to improve international reputation. If I'm well aware, you weren't at the last minister's office, you were replaced by Mr. Bizjak. In Turkey, I spoke to the British Members, one of them came, "Jean, I can't believe what I heard from the Ministry." I said, "What was it?" He said, "There your secretary somehow explained the role of the Republic of Slovenia or your army in the Baltic, Latvia. They were thrilled, the Republic of Slovenia will engage. But then this same secretary ruined everything by starting to talk, but now we have problems, not knowing how it will pay, not knowing how this matter will be defined, whether it will be a mission or not and what I know what else he's saying." Everyone laughed at you, and Mr Bizjak talked about it. If it came to me, if the British Member told me, but he wasn't there, then we know about the situation. We will probably, as we said before, wait until the end of December to see what happens at the table. By the end of the year, another meeting of the Defence Committee on M-55 S tanks, proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be tabled, I think today or yesterday, to discuss how it is. Otherwise, a number of signals have been sent, both to the public and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one that draws attention to the anomalies in the system, the anomalies that are in the Slovenian Army, that we have so far come up with proposals for improvement in the form of some proposals for conclusions, both by the Defence Committee and by the National Assembly, that we have come up with a proposal for recommendations. What is more, after the new year, when it is obvious that the ministry does not move, it is necessary to propose things in the form of laws and in other ways, if we do not want the system to completely collapse, to get others, new members and members, not those who have the restriction that they should not go to the slaughterhouse, as one of the brigades said last time. Until then, the obvious situation will not improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-38.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Well, we've got a minute and a few seconds left. If anyone else wants to apply for the debate, of course this also applies to the applicant and to the Minister, please apply. Press, please, Madam Secretary. Okay, so what's too much, the minute's on one so it doesn't work out. [[…]] I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. I also conclude the 38th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and wish you a pleasant, less rainy weekend.
