ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 16th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that we cannot attend today's meeting with the following Members: Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Andrej Čus, Mr Igor Zorčič by 1 p.m., Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik and Miha Kordiš. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to nine. On the day-to-day basis, this is to deal with the interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the Minister for the external affairs of Mr Viktor Erjavc. Interpellation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 26 Members and Members with their first signed mags. Matthew Tonin. I give the text first to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Joseph Horvat, for an explanation of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the opportunity. Honorable Council of Ministers, President of the Government, Dear Members, Dear Members, Honourable Citizens, Respectable Citizens! The year 2016 is the anniversary year for our country. We remember the historical, political and patriotic events that also took place in this temple of democracy 25 years ago, the events that have realized the centuries-old dreams of our ancestors and our own dreams that Slovenia will become a independent and independent state of all Slovenes and Slovenes at home and around the world. On 25 June 1991, Slovenia formally became an independent and independent state. Extraordinary efforts and efforts have been followed for the international recognition of Slovenia. In 1991, Slovenia was recognised by only 7 countries, Slovenia was recognised by the Holy See on 13 January 1992, and 17 by the end of January. On 22 May 1992, Slovenia, as a 176th member, was admitted to the United Nations. On 14 May 1993, as the 27th country, the Council of Europe adopted it. This was a great success of Slovenian diplomacy at the time; this was the great success of the Slovenian foreign policy at the time. What is the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia today, and why should it be changed? This question was raised by Members of the New Slovenia at the time of a few months of consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in the National Assembly on 10 July 2015 and supplemented by the New Slovenia Group. I gave an initiative to reopen the draft declaration at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy in October 2014. However, only a few days after the declaration was made in the Official Journal, the outbreak of an international espionage affair related to an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was overshadowed. The state of Slovenia has suffered enormous political damage. Again in New Slovenia we asked ourselves the question of Quo exercises Slovenian foreign policy. We began to write an interpretation of the work and responsibility of Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac. We have estimated that it would not be responsible for interpolation to take place last summer, as Slovenia has already bled from the disgrace that has taken place in the country. On the contrary! About our statements, because there were no ministers or was silenced by the President of the Government of Dr. Miro Cerar, we put the interests of the state before the party's interest. The entire opposition then showed a state-of-the-art attitude. On 7 August 2015, I stood by the Minister at the Youth Press Conference. Perhaps because of this, Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec repeatedly repeats and repeats, lastly in his interview on the parliamentary TV programme on 28 February, when he repeats again, at least twice that he is very surprised that I, Joseph Horvat, am the first to be signed under interpolation. I'm also told by some of his client's officials. Dear Minister, this is just one of many examples of your inconsistencies and superficiality, which we also read to you in your interpretation! Foreign policy must be consistent, Minister, and at least the first page of the interpolation must be read consistently and you will see that I am not the first to be signed, that I am not the second to be signed, but that I am the third to be signed. Your repeated statements that interpellation is a pamphlet of readings prove that you have not read it. We know from the high school or from the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language that the pamphlet means a shameful writing or an article with which a person is ashamed. In the text of the interpellation, we do not embarrass anyone with a word, but at least you, Mr Minister! You, Mr. Minister, have constantly disgraced the New Slovenia party on the day of the intervention - Christian Democrats, have diagnosed us with being nervous, aggressive, incompetent, incompetent and so on. You would expect to respond to interpolation with an external policy vocabulary and, above all, with content. You are focusing solely on the smaller party proposing low-impact interpretation, on the co-proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the largest opposition party that has contributed more than four times as many signatures, and you obviously do not hope. In addition, Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac's statement that the interpretation was made on purpose at the time of Dr. Danil Türk's candidacy as Secretary General of the United Nations. Your Honor, we don't mention this candidacy in a single word of interpretation! If Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec had read the interpretation, he would not have been so inconsistent in his statements. However, Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec trapped himself with this statement; even more, colleagues and colleagues, he caught the whole government in the trap. Karl Viktor Erjavec and the Government are eloquently violating the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia after the ink on paper has not yet dried. Let's see why. Chapter 4 of the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia speaks of the implementation of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the implementation of the declaration. The second indent of this chapter reads: "For the successful implementation of this declaration, the following are key elements of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia: strengthening the culture of foreign policy for which foreign policy, the continuity of principles and values in foreign policy and" – watch out now! – "to seek a broad political and social consensus on fundamental foreign policy orientations in key decisions and major international candidates, and to provide a single representation of national interest in the performance of State function holders or foreign policy stakeholders." What did Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec do and what did the Government do in search of a broad political and social consensus in this very important candidacy for the UN Secretary General? The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government as a whole is responsible for non-compliance with these provisions of the declaration. Today, of course, Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec will have plenty of time to explain why he does not respect the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the National Assembly and why he treats the National Assembly in a humiliating manner. How else can we explain his repeated statements that today's debate on interpretation, I quote, "only another day lost in the National Assembly". If the head of Slovenian diplomacy humiliates the Slovenian Parliament in this way, then we can be legitimately concerned. Even if Karl wins, Slovenia will lose with him in the future. Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec took an oath in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and in front of the entire Slovenian public; here he swore. We would like the interpellations to give today's debate in particular the answers to the question of where Slovenian foreign policy is going. However, it is not only what assessment we give to Slovenian foreign policy at home in Slovenia, but it is important how others assess us. Consider two relevant cases; the European External Relations Council is the first pan-European "think tank" to be established in 2007. Its aim is to carry out high-level research, to establish coalitions for change and to promote expert debates on the development of a coherent, effective and values-based European foreign policy. The Council consists of 250 eminent members, such as politicians, decision makers, thinkers and businessmen from the Member States of the European Union and candidates. It is run by Carl Bildt, former Prime Minister of Sweden and Foreign Minister. The European External Relations Council, which was published a few days ago, notes that Slovenia is one of the most passive and non-initiative countries in the European Union in the field of foreign policy. Slovenia is not found among 19 countries that have received an "top leader" or leader rating for at least one area. Slovenia once landed in a group of "top smoothers" or quitters, and this in the field of humanitarianism in the refugee crisis, where the Slovenian government tries to create the impression that it is active and that the events are not premature. I am giving this report to Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac to see that Nova Slovenija is not lying. The smart Foreign Minister thinks twice about his statement. We must not afford populisms, demagogies, Signatories to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Karl Viktor Erjavac, we read a number of rash statements. You can remember those VTV statements on Murscohos TV As. Of course, these statements also upset Croatian politics and the Croatian public. In an interview with VTV Karl Viktor Erjavec said, quote: "On the information that I have, although very informal, also on the basis of some of the feelings that our legal team has, which is made up of the world's most respected lawyers for maritime law, we somehow have some optimism that the arbitral tribunal will determine this contact with the open sea." End of quote. It must be determined in any event because it is contained in the arbitration agreement. But, as it is said, these statements have greatly upset Croatian politics. And more! Karl Viktor Erjavec does not give up, even though the Court of Arbitration has written a letter to him constantly – look at him on the PCA-CGA website and you will find all the documents published publicly, but you can also visit me. And with these reckless statements, Kar Viktor Erjavec does not give up and on December 21st last year in connection with the lost judgments with Croatia strikes again: "Access to the open sea is the vital goal of arbitration on the border" which, according to Jerjavac's words, is most important, I quote, "here will certainly win Karl, is a confident leader of Slovenian diplomacy." Such statements by the Minister for Foreign Affairs are shameful and humiliating for the state of Slovenia, and Karl Viktor Erjavec also notes with such statements that he cares little about the border on land, since he practically never mentions it, so he has not worked hard enough for it. If we look at the bilateral meetings of Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac, this is the most eloquent picture. Bilateral meetings are, of course, meetings of Minister Karl Erjavac with foreign ministers, ministers or presidents of foreign parliaments, between February 2012 and today. Several bilateral meetings, which were not always in the country I will appoint, were: Russia 9 times, Croatia 5 times, Hungary 5 times, France 4 times, Macedonia 4 times, Serbia 3 times, Montenegro 3 times, Italy 2 times, Germany 2 times, Romania 2 times, Bosnia and Herzegovina 2 times. Karl Erjavec never visited Canada, Karl Erjavec never visited the United States, Karl Erjavec never visited Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Luxembourg, Portugal — in a bilateral sense, of course. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of these well-founded reasons, which will be complemented today, we are of the opinion of the interviewers on the work and responsibility of Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec that Karl Viktor Erjavec is not fit to serve as Minister for Foreign Affairs, so we propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to discharge him as Minister for Foreign Affairs. On December 29th, last year, in Odessa, excellent guests, former President of the National Assembly Dr. Pavel Gantar and former Minister Žiga Turk, who answered the question of what went wrong in the arbitration, said: "The politician who is most successful in the sense of how long he sits in the government is objectively responsible for what happened in relation to arbitration, perhaps in relation to his statements also subjectively, and this tells much about what goes wrong in Slovenia, whether the political class is full of newcomers or people who are not optimal for the functions they cover." We do not want the foreign policy of Karl Viktor Erjavac, we want the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. And today let Slovenia win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u3	In order to explain the interpretation, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u4	Honorable President, Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly! In the world, the security, prosperity and reputation of each country, including the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia, must be established. This is, of course, one of the sentences in the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as peace, security, prosperity, regulated bilateral relations, a strong European Union and a strong multilateral system and the recognition of Slovenia. These are essentially the fundamental objectives of Slovenian foreign policy. Slovenia is expected to be safe and respected in the world. These are phrases from the strategy of Slovenian foreign policy and, at the same time, under the leadership of Slovenian foreign policy led by Karl Viktor Erjavac, we rightly ask whether these are slogans or whether this is a reality. More or less, it's actually a password. If we go in a good way and first talk about the first strategic objective, this is about the peace and role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The geostrategic situation shows that wars are getting closer: the annexation of Crimea, the war in Syria, Iraq. Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs Karl Viktor Erjavec taken his word because of the ever-increasing military area of Slovenia? Is it possible that the Government has proposed an increase in the state budget and a greater guarantee of peace in the country? No! No! Nor did he do so for his budget, for the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, although, of course, he had agreement and opportunity here also in the Foreign Policy Committee's decision. As a result, this objective, which is written in the Slovenian strategy, remains in fact a password. And the password of the entire government, since ultimately providing 0.97% of gross social product for military purposes in NATO is much earlier a disgrace than anything else. Is this why the possibility of war in Slovenia is greater? If we look at some of the analyses, then we can find that mainly military strategists are talking about giving actually possessing not only conventional weapons, but also weapons that allow bomb attacks that allow cyber warfare and so on. And if we are talking about this here, some military commanders are talking about the possibility of radical Islamism, then the actual values written in Slovenian foreign policy are not implemented and will not be implemented. Europe can no longer expect to live in peace and security if it is not prepared to defend its interests and values. In doing so, peace, which is described as a goal, is actually threatened. If we are talking about the second strategic objective of Slovenian foreign policy, this is about security. The risk of social unrest is increasing in Slovenia. The threat of terrorism is increasing. Economic prospects are bad. I'm not just saying this, I can quote some people here, like the Swiss commander of the army. They say that migration flows of displaced persons and refugees create unpredictable dimensions. Not only is it a conspiracy theory, it also says in the December report of the European Parliament, which advises European governments to start thinking about informing the public about the danger of terrorist attacks with chemical, biological, radiological or even nuclear material. This is the second strategic objective of Slovenian foreign policy. Here is the question of what and what is the reaction of Slovenian foreign policy to that which, of course, has a strategic goal written "more security". Where is the response or reaction of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to such warnings by the European Parliament, not by any individual? There are no responses to the strategic objectives; there are no responses from both the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's more than one plant of flowers. The challenges, questions and dilemmas of Slovenian foreign policy are not answered by the Slovenian Minister for Foreign Affairs. The objectives set out in the Slovenian strategy are not actually being met. There is no effective action in the field of economic diplomacy either. Economic diplomacy is too rigid and too slow. One of the objectives of the foreign policy strategy is to build railway infrastructure, but in this area Slovenian diplomacy does not work and therefore there is no strategic and strategic achievement of Slovenia's objectives. The share of foreign investment is not increasing, we are among the last countries in Europe. Of course, we can also talk about one of the strategic objectives, which is an orderly bilateral relationship. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has an objective responsibility for the arbitration fiasco, for the eavesdropper affair and for his unequivocal statements on this and even misleading statements on what has already been said. Here we can talk about non-intense cooperation in the activation of the new judges of the arbitration tribunal. With our neighbours, Croats are in fact unlucky and unhappy, neither does Minister Erjavec lead the right policy. There's not even enough will, determination, knowledge to actually sort things out. In recent periods Croatia has actually received everything it wanted in bilateral relations: in addition to the foreign currency of the New Ljubljana Bank half of the Piran Bay, compensation for unpaid electricity in Krske, and in fact no agreement with Croatia has been implemented. What is the policy of Slovenia or the Minister for Foreign Affairs? In particular, it is unambitious and passive and, of course, to the detriment of Slovenia. It is clear that Croatia will not take the judgment of the arbitral tribunal into account if it does not like it and if it does. For some in Croatia, the judgment of the arbitral tribunal and the arbitration agreement are merely a waste of time. Also the last asset of Slovenia, this is support or non-support for Croatia's integration into the Schengen system, is lost in importance due to Slovenian Schengen negligence. What has the Minister for Foreign Affairs done in this regard to actually respect the Schengen Agreement? Nothing! He allowed a violation of the Schengen Agreement and did not demand respect. The National Assembly has given guidance to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in particular within the framework of the Committee on Foreign Policy, in relation to the Schengen Agreement, several times at its meetings. The positions of the Republic of Slovenia, which were advocated by the policy-holders, were slow and, above all, without any initiative. And non-initiative policy and impenetrable policy has, of course, brought Slovenia into a situation where we have a number of migration problems and when we are actually in the midst of a migration crisis. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs played a major role in this. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not done its job in connection with the Council; even more, the most important transport corridors will probably go along with such an ambition of this government past Slovenia and, of course, will lose the economic potential for development in particular. There is no clear political orientation at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is why Slovenia's international reputation is falling. In fact, we do not know whether Slovenia and Slovenian foreign policy is on the side track in Europe or on a dead end. In particular, it is unbalanced, in particular not acting within the framework of the European Union and NATO associations, which are natural allies. Above all, it does not work towards a strategic partnership with the West, but focuses mainly on Eastern European countries and, of course, it also gives great importance to cooperation with the Russian Federation, which is why it is unbalanced, which is of course not good. Passive and non-initiative foreign policy leads Slovenia to a passive and vulnerable situation. Slovenia is a relatively well-developed, rich country, if we look at it in the context of the global economy, but it is weak. Weak both in protecting our property and weak in order to protect and protect all these goods and assets. And that's dangerous. And the foreign policy led by Karl Viktor Erjavec actually brought us into a state when we became too weak. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that Karl Viktor Erjavec is not fit to serve as foreign minister, and we therefore propose to the National Assembly to discharge him from his post as foreign minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u5	You received Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac's reply to the interpretation by letter dated 1 January. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I give the floor to Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac to explain the written reply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament, citizens accompanying the direct transfer! I will also take this opportunity to welcome all pensioners and pensioners who are watching this transfer, and in particular I would congratulate my mother, who had a year yesterday. Let's switch to interpolation. I have to say, this interpolation is pretty empty, with no content. I have also listened very carefully now, and I must say that I have not understood any violation of the Constitution, a violation of the law, because man would expect the minister to stop before this stage when he actually commits such grave irregularities that he can no longer participate in the government. This is what a person expects to be at least a violation of the Constitution, a violation of laws, but not an interpretation of what Slovenian foreign policy is, what it should be like. Therefore, I do not understand these interpretations as the interpretation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, where the arguments for and against are dealt with in an expert manner with certain actions which would be contrary to the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, I must commend that after 17 years I have succeeded with agreement, virtually all Members have supported the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. A great deal of effort has been put forward here since 2012, when I was proposed as Minister for Foreign Affairs by the Government of Janš. I must say that many interests needed to be reconciled in order to finally reach this declaration on Slovenian foreign policy. This is how I understand this interpretation in particular as an account with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Karl Viktor Erjavac. I heard that word at least 30 times when the motioners presented the reasons for the interpretation. I apologize to the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, it is thirdly signed, but given its activity, given that the first appeared as a candidate, I believe that he has contributed a significant part of this interpretation. However, I must say that I am surprised that, as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, which is somehow the supervisory body of the Government or of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he has never troubled us, we have never had any extraordinary meetings about the improvisation of Slovenian foreign policy in order to be completely missed. If that were the case, I would expect you to have one extraordinary session every month, as we do when it comes to the migration crisis. I don't know what happened to the President, I mean the Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, because he worked very well on diplomatic days and one day before the intervention was put in, we had a nice lunch where he recognized the quality of our diplomacy. So I assume that this is some other background, some political pressure, maybe inside the party. It was obvious to me why I wasn't attacking SDS. Look, I don't understand politics as an attack, the SDS can be constructive, it can be a partner in certain issues; when we talk about the migration crisis, sometimes their proposals are welcome. So I don't know what kind of policy New Slovenia is governed by when it only sees opponents, attack, defense. Look, there's nothing to defend today, I'm just gonna tell you what we've been doing with my colleagues at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for four years. Let me go over to the interpolation text a little bit. In particular, the first part mentions an improvised, flawed foreign policy. First, I would remind you that Slovenian foreign policy is made up of several actors. Here we have the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, the President of the National Assembly, and last but not least, the Foreign Policy Committee, through parliamentary diplomacy, also defines Slovenian foreign policy. So this weight that you want to put on my shoulders is obviously too big and unrealistic because the Foreign Minister is not the only actor. Thus, I must say that all the positions I represent at international conferences, or in the framework of international organisations, or in bilateral meetings, are prepared by professional services at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, professional career diplomats, whom I highly appreciate, and I must say that every issue is very carefully examined, very carefully analyzed before the final product comes to the Minister who checks again, discuss with his colleagues whether any matter is disputed, whether any matter is possible beyond the parliamentary positions, or beyond the points of view in the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. And after such material has been confirmed in the Government and also dealt with on the competent committees, either in foreign matters or in the competent Committee for the European Union, I have a green light so that I can take these positions. So here I do not know whether the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy does not know technology or whether it is actually a political account, what is wanted in today's 13th, 14th-hour debate. Thus, there can be no talk here about improvised foreign policy, unless you think that our career diplomats are, that the professional services at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are great improvizers, but I assure you that this is not the case, and you know that it is not. It's a flawed foreign policy. Then tell me what the real foreign policy is. I didn't hear anything about that today when you presented your interpretation and when you argued about how it sucked. I hope to be able to hear it further, but from the interpretation, let's say, it turns out that our Slovenian foreign policy is flawed because I failed, for example, to stop or manage to continue the project of building the South Stream. What? You imagine Karl Viktor Erjavec calling Vladimir Putin and saying, "Listen, go on with this southern flow, because we've already met nine times." Maybe next time I'll suggest this to him if you give me that kind of instruction. But what I'm trying to say is, what absurd claims there are in this interpretation. Karl Viktor Erjavec failed to continue building the south Stream! I mean, I don't have a comment! Then I read there that our policy is prorussian, on the other hand, if you ask the left, here the United Left, I'm sure you would say, our Slovenian foreign policy is pro-American. This indicates only two extreme wings; one wing says, our foreign policy is pro-Russian, the other one – pro-American, says that we have a balanced foreign policy. In Parliament alone, our citizens can make sure that this policy is very balanced. The next issue is that we are moving away from the European Union. Please give me some arguments or at least one. If you're thinking about the Ukrainian crisis, that's not true. We fully respect economic sanctions against Russia. I was in Kiev, where I defended Ukraine's sovereignty and inviolability, so I don't know where this distance from the European Union is. Every month I meet practically all the external ministers of the European Union, I have discussions at the edge and so on. Thus, there is no need for special bilateral, official, bilateral meetings, but we do. Then, on the other hand, I hear that we're too small to get involved in a multi-city group, and that's what the interpretation says. But here I am listening to the speakers' address about how we are too connected with the Eastern European countries, especially Russia. I believe that the other Eastern European countries, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Czech Republic Res, would be very improvised if we were to lead Slovenian foreign policy in this way. I am reading in the interpretation that we are too focused on the Western Balkans. A few sentences forward, however, that we are not well recognised in the Western Balkans. Let's make a deal! I can tell you about the Western Balkans. In 2014, in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the basis of my letter to the High Representative for Foreign Policy, this was then Lady Ashton, a high dialogue between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina was launched. On this basis, progress has been made in the last year, as far as Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned. Not to talk about the trade. We have increased trade with all Western Balkan countries. By knowing that all the Western Balkan countries are our second or third largest economic partner immediately for Germany. I have to say, I don't understand these readings. If I continue with the next topic in interpolation. That I've abandoned my duty of control. This is a diplomatic oversight carried out by the Chief Diplomatic Supervisor, who is completely independent of the Minister. If you don't believe me, you can actually ask the Chief Diplomatic Inspector that I've never affected any of his decisions. These diplomatic controls began when Ivo Wigl, Minister of Foreign Affairs, continued with Samuel Žbogar, and I systematically began with this diplomatic control. The legal basis for diplomatic supervision was already given in 2001. I think you're also quoting Dr. Dimitri Ruple in the interpellation. From 2001 to 2001 there was no diplomatic control — interesting, and he had all the legal bases! There you quote him as an expert, as someone credible in the field of foreign policy. If I keep going. We have carried out 32 diplomatic controls in my mandate, of which 7 are extraordinary. How do I get some information so something could be wrong? I have this right to order the Chief Diplomatic Inspector to exercise his control. We did it in seven cases. To make no mistake, these diplomatic controls are not intended to criminalize diplomacy, career diplomats, but are designed to remedy shortcomings. The only Ministry of the Interior has that kind of control. That's where you're referring to the enormous budgetary damage. What damage has happened to our taxpayers? I was able to calculate, out of 32 controls, we found 10 000 euros in mismanagement of budgetary resources, and these 10,000 euros have also been returned by diplomats. We don't know what astronomical costs you're talking about for the budget. In doing so, I should say that EUR 5,000 refers to one diplomatic place and there is still an open court dispute. When I saw the defense of a lawyer, I think we're going to lose this conflict and we're going to have to give that 5,000 euros back to a diplomat. The other 5,000 refer to 31 graduates. If you share this, I think it's 160 euros in damage to a diplomat, but above all, we find that there is mismanagement of budgetary resources. I can make an example. Like a parking lot for a car. If this is a private trip, he has to pay for it himself, not to burden the embassy's budget. There's a lot of stuff like that, and that's what our diplomatic oversight sees. The whole diplomatic network wanted to be criminalized from this. We continue to carry out these diplomatic controls, at least ten a year, and we are primarily trying to remedy irregularities. This isn't about any thefts or crimes. But if I go any further, I'm going to touch the human resources policy. I'm obviously improvised here, in a political way, I don't know what kind of personnel. As far as the ambassadors are concerned, the Consul General. Look, the procedure is very clear, and there's the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and it's not that key factor. First of all, let me explain that for all staff within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have a five-member human resources commission. In it, the Secretary-General, who is not a politician, is then two Directors-General, one for a bilateral, the other for a multilateral appointed by the Official Council or then proposed to the Government. It's a non-political function. Then he is the Chief Diplomatic Supervisor who gives an assessment in this Personnel Commission if he thinks that a diplomat really can't handle budget money. He can then stop such a diplomat from repossessing the ambassadorial post. And the fifth member is the president of the diplomats' union. By law, it would be enough for the union to give only an opinion, we have included it in the Human Resources Commission and then there is an agreement if only one candidate could be proposed to the minister. And it usually happens that way if there are two or three, but I have to consult with the President of the Government, because such a candidate has to go through the Government and with the President of the State because he signs the order. We know that we have already had cases where the President of the State did not wish to sign an order to a certain elected ambassador. Finally, the Committee on Foreign Policy, chaired by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, is giving an opinion on the proposal for today's interpretation by Joseph Horvat. I must say, this is always an opinion with full consent. I went to watch, not once voted against, but always unanimously. And here I see politics, political cadres! I don't know, maybe with the president of the Foreign Policy Committee we're politically recruiting, I don't know. Maybe he'll explain it to me later. As far as internal personnel are concerned. We have an internal tender when someone retires. It's not a matter for the chairman to say, he retired, and now you're gonna go there. No! No! An internal call, you have to apply, a five-member human resources commission, with a union representative, then suggests who will fill this vacant seat. Well, I'm not going to be too much on these technical things, because from what I've said so far, you can understand that interpellation is really without content, unwarranted, empty. Or perhaps another area — arbitration. They say they were statesmen, we waited. What did you wait for? The arbitral tribunal has not yet ruled on this, but it will continue the proceedings. The situation is exactly the same as the 23rd or the 24th or the 25th of July as it is today when we are March 2nd. It's exactly the same situation. And they're selling, and now it's been so long, and they're hanging on to that statement, and this third time Karl will win, let me explain this statement. Zoran Milanović – I also understood when the proposaler interpreted the interpretation, and the great concern about how Croatian policy reacts and the Croatian public. Look, I don't care how they react. I am interested in Slovenian foreign policy interest. Look, Mr. Tonin, I would ask you to be polite. No, you're always adverting something here!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u7	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u8	They didn't raise you well, obviously. I'll keep going. They are concerned about what the Croatian public thinks about Croatian politics. I have to say, I don't care. I am interested in Slovenian national interest. As far as arbitration is concerned, this month the decision will fall on the basis of oral consideration of how to proceed with the procedure. I hope everything's going to be okay, given all the preparations, on all the arguments. But maybe I'd like to talk again about that statement I've been constantly getting from, what was on the big TV. There I said nothing but that based on the conversations I have with my own, our own, your lawyers, which we pay dearly, we have a good feeling and that I can informally say that we should get in touch with the open sea. And I didn't prejudge anything by just saying what article 3 of the arbitration agreement stipulates. It provides that the arbitral tribunal shall establish contact with the high seas. I don't know why you're doing this right now. I don't know what the story is. You may wish not to determine this contact – or what? I feel as if you are more interested in Croatian interests than in Slovenian interests, so you are concerned about this contact. Really, sometimes it's hard to understand all this. Furthermore, the interpolation talks about Palestine – the minister said, by the end of the year we will admit Palestine, and now he has not! Those who are constantly opposed to the recognition of Palestine have been holding back this confession, and now they're reading it to me in interpretation! I'd understand if the United Left read it, but it's New Slovenia that's obvious, but it's funny. Unless there was a conversion, given that the Vatican, the Holy Headquarters recently confessed to Palestine. Look, if this happened, I'm going to listen to you very carefully, and we're going to make sure that we find the right time to acknowledge Palestine. Because it's necessary to know, it's important here, too, when you do it, that it's not an empty shot. And if you've already told me that we are not active within the European Union, and I don't know what, I can say that we are actually negotiating within the European Union what time it would be for the recognition of Palestine. Maybe because I have five, six, seven minutes left, about this terrible analysis of Carl Bildt, a great friend of Croatia – he has his property there, he enjoys his vacation there. But no matter what, I was invited into this "think tank," so I refused because I saw what kind of association was assembled there, and I didn't respond and I said, I'm not going to participate in this "think tank." But it doesn't matter, look, being in company with Luxembourg, but the Netherlands is really great. Luxembourg chaired the European Union last year, was a non-permanent member of the Security Council and shared the last place. What criteria are these, I'm sorry! The Netherlands, which now holds the presidency of the European Union – before the last! I think we can be happy if we're in that kind of company. But I think it also shows that these polls are just incredible, like maybe these public polls that we read every month, where there's a party, percentage up, percent down, one is the first, the other is the second. Thus, this analysis is completely unrealistic and is not being taken seriously. However, I am pleased, but if we are so recognizable in addition to the Netherlands, Luxembourg. Look, there's a lot of words in this interpolation, a lot of pamphlets. A good definition has already been said by the proposer, so I do not have to repeat it. In fact, it is about how to discredit Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac. I guess I'm getting on your nerves. You see politics as attacking, I must say that I don't see it that way. So I don't have much to add at this point. I think this interpolation is totally unnecessary, it's going to be another lost day, I repeat. Those of you who don't believe will believe tomorrow because I think we're going to end this meeting tomorrow. In the meantime, we will probably close a little session to make the drama more dramatic, but the effect will be the same; in the end, we will find that we have wasted one day today, rather than the National Assembly, because it costs something to sit here today and listen to some quasi-external foreign affairs, it would probably be better to address some quality legislation, some important issues, but not here, an attack on the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because someone is not willing. I also expect from the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy that in the future, because I believe that he will remain in this position, whether the interpretation succeeds or not, it also shows the quality of someone consciously going into a project that cannot succeed, it is a little crazy – but. Okay, everyone has the right to make their own decisions. I therefore hope that the president of the Committee on Foreign Policy will also be improvised to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy at that time, when he sees or sees that Slovenian foreign policy is flawed, and that he will immediately convene an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy and that we are trying to resolve immediately, which can be resolved so that it is not too late. I think this meeting will be particularly useful in the sense that the Slovenian public will receive firsthand information on what Slovenian foreign policy is actually doing, what our diplomats are doing, but they come from all kinds. To avoid imagining that we have only left or right diplomats, most of them are professional. I must say, even in 2012, when I was in the Janša government, all diplomats worked for the benefit of Slovenia, for the benefit of Slovenian foreign policy, regardless of belonging. I can also say today in 2016 that this is the case. That's why I'm proud of our diplomats, of our professionals who did a lot of work in the 1990s, so that we have our own country today so that some of us can sit here. Since then Slovenian diplomacy and Slovenian politics would not have succeeded with their project, they would probably not have sat here today and listened to these unnecessary discussions on an improvised foreign policy. Because if this is the case, then I suggest that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs needs to be rationalised immediately, it should be reduced immediately because we do not need such an apparatus. However, I liked the fact that the applicants too saw the guilt, for example, that I did not propose a higher defence budget. I don't know, President of the Government, you're also going to trust me to take over the Ministry of Defence because I don't know if this is under the authority of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, I can boast that when I was the Minister for Foreign Affairs or Defence, the share of gross domestic product for defence expenditure was 1.7%. But at the time I was the most attacked person, we had these extraordinary sessions, why so much money for defensive ability. We want more social, more education, more knowledge of what the military will do to us, what military equipment will do to us.It is also interesting to monitor how our society develops, what our views were in 2004, 2006, 2008. I remember an extraordinary session when we sent four instructors to Iraq. [[…]] This path was no extraordinary meeting and here I see that we are developing as a society, that we will honorly get out of puberty and come into a mature period. Thank you very much. /Applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u10	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Minister of Foreign Affairs with the team, President of the Government and the Council of Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Before I read this position of our group, let me say that in this position there are many things that Minister Karl Erjavec has already said, but given that we have already warned about this, it just confirms that this interpretation is substantive, and I will use a mild term, a force modest and we will not be left with anything else, and it will probably be similar in a 14-hour performance. So today is the interpretation of the work and responsibilities of Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac, announced by the proponents for at least half a year, and we were all looking forward to it. When you finally managed to convince the SDS to contribute the necessary signatures in the second after an unfortunate fall attempt, we expected a strong, reasoned document, as it would be for a serious political party. What did we get? We have received a political pamphlet, a materially empty political document, which has also been written in most political comments, including those from the right political province. Let me mention only Mr Dejan Steinbuch, who was on 27 January 2016 at the Reflections, I quote, saying: "The problem of this interpretation is its content. I think it's empty, so it might be better for them to step away from it." We all know what happened after the interpolation. The canonation started with Minister Erjavac, not at the level of arguments and fighting in the political arena. Personal and completely unfounded attacks on the minister, his family, and property began. I think we can be the only ones to remember such attacks in the modern political history. Why all this? Why is it that a political party who is already proudly proclaiming Christian values of human beings descends to the level of café slander? And we're back to the content of the interpolation that's not really there – by the system, if there's no content, we're going to invent it. Let's see what you're reading to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. You report to the Minister the conduct of impromptu, inconsistent, vague, indistinguishable, incomprehensible, inefficient and static foreign policies or, as you call it, flawed foreign policies. This statement of yours is political and, in fact, ridiculous, because the second article of the Law on Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia makes it perfectly clear that: "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, within the competence of the Government, executes external affairs in accordance with the general guidelines set out by the National Assembly." This means that the Minister of Foreign Policy does not design and implement it independently, but within the Government and in accordance with the guidelines of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Who runs the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Policy? Jožef Horvat, Member of New Slovenia. The man who, two days before he presented the interpretation of the work and responsibility of Minister Erjavc at the press conference, had dinner with the same minister and had a pleasant chat at the daily Slovenian diplomacy in Brdo pri Kranju. Unusual! Mr Horvat also praised Slovenian diplomacy, the minister himself and his team on several occasions, which is even more unusual. If I only mention one example of the adoption of the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Horvat said, quote: "Let me also take this moment to thank all those who have been creatively involved in the creation of the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Here, of course, I would point out the expertise of the Committee on Foreign Policy, of course also of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister and the Ministers of Cooperation. I wish this political document had been adopted today at least without a vote against it." Interesting. And of course, all members of New Slovenia voted in favour of this declaration, which is one of the biggest achievements of Minister Erjavac, because after 17 years and many unsuccessful attempts, the Minister was able to prepare this extremely important strategic document, which at the same time received broad political and professional support. If I go back to the evidence of a failed foreign policy, then in the Desus Group we wonder whether Mr Horvat has done his job in the first place. If we look at things plastically, if Minister Erjavec actually led a separate and wrong policy, how can it be that Mr Horvat, as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, would allow this at all? How, not protesting, he even publicly praised the minister, his work and the team of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's even more unusual! Let's move on. Signatories of the intervention to the Minister are granted leave of due control and failure to act against responsible diplomats, who are expected to commit financial irregularities at Slovenian diplomatic and consular offices and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Neither does this observation of yours drink water, because it is Minister Erjavec who is actually the first Slovenian foreign minister to consistently and systematically enforce Article 8 of the Law on Foreign Affairs. The law has been in force since 2001, as Minister Rupel has not implemented it for unknown reasons, the first one was Ivo Wigl, today Member of Desus in the European Parliament, followed by Minister Žbogar, but to a lesser extent than controls are being carried out today. Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec carried out 32 inspections, 25 regulars and 7 extraordinarys in his office in Mladika. All regular controls were carried out consistently on the basis of annual control plans and independently carried out by the Chief Diplomatic Supervisor. Under all the reports and measures proposed, Minister Erjavec has also signed and the relevant services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have also taken action after the adoption of the reports. It is worth mentioning here that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, at the request of the Committee on Foreign Policy of 28. Seven. 2015 His President, Joseph Horvath, received a comprehensive report on the supervision of the embassies in Paris, along with reports of other controls. Mr Andrej Shirtz, President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances. And what was the conclusion? At its 17th regular session, the Commission of the National Assembly on Public Finance Supervision, led by the opposition Member and where the opposition has a majority, adopted the following conclusion: "The Commission on Public Finance Supervision notes that, by introducing supervision of the financial operations of the embassies, it has established a review of the use of budgetary resources. The Commission therefore calls on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to continue its financial supervision of the operations of embassies." The Commission has also proposed to the Ministry that future monitoring reports should be prepared separately, so that part of the spending of budgetary resources is public, which the Ministry already takes into account. At the same time, it should be known that the amount of all irregularities at the embassies from 2012 onwards, when the Ministry is headed by Minister Erjavec, does not exceed EUR 10 000 and all has already been returned. At the time before that, the state budget had been damaged by nearly half a million euros, suggesting that the functioning and management of diplomatic and consular offices under Minister Erjavac had been greatly improved. So we can conclude that the observation in point 2 of the interpolation is completely unjustifiable, because the real situation is diametrically opposite to what the proponents want to present. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is probably the only body in the state administration that has such thorough supervision, since since 2009 it has been known about every euro spent on diplomatic and consular missions. It is known whether the money was spent justifiably or unjustifiably, economically or uneconomically. Moreover, most of the irregularities identified with the greatest financial consequences occurred between 2005 and 2008, when someone else was led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I will not name him, but we all know what he is talking about. And we can also ask ourselves why, despite the relevant legal basis and reporting to the media on irregular controls at Slovenian representations abroad at the time, they were not carried out. There is also evidence in the interpretation of the absence of professional human resources policy, which is totally unfounded and unrealistic, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a specific human resources policy and is the reason why a special professional advisory body, the Human Resources Commission, has been set up. The Human Resources Commission is a completely non-political body, as no one is involved in it, which would be directly appointed by the Minister. Staff matters are therefore decided by two Directors-General appointed by the Official Council, the General Diplomatic Supervisor and the President of the Union of Slovenian Diplomats, and chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry, who is a career diplomat. In fact, Minister Erjavec was the one who changed the regime of the Human Resources Commission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2014 and depoliticised it. And today we can say that the MZZ is an example of good practice, as the human resources policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is one of the most professionally justified and at the same time friendly to trade union decision-making. The fact that we have excellent diplomats also shows the fact that Slovenia has doubled the number of Slovenian temporary staff at the European External Action Service, where we now have 13 employees, even though according to the size of the country it is only 1 city. Slovenia is one of the three most represented countries in the European External Service, led by the EU High Foreign Representative, Mrs Federica Mogherini. I think that this fact speaks only of itself, because we know that it is not only lobbying that is sufficient for these jobs, but professionally justified candidates. It is also worth mentioning that the Minister's quota, i.e. the Minister's trust, currently employs only 2 persons, although the Minister has 5 seats and all employees in the Ministry have 655. You also read clientism to the minister, but it is not clear from the interpretation itself what you are aiming at. Employment at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is extremely transparent and, in appointing ambassadors and general consuls, the procedure itself prevents any deviation from the rules of the game. The procedure is perfectly clear, the candidates apply, the Personnel Commission determines whether they fulfil the conditions, the appropriate names are then forwarded to the Minister for decision, it consults with the Government and the President of the Republic, they follow the checks in the National Assembly, the Government then makes the appointment, then it is necessary to obtain the consent of the recipient State, and the President lastly issues the appointment order. It is one of the most demanding procedures for appointment to the leadership position in Slovenia. Moreover, all candidates for ambassadors and general consuls have received a positive opinion since 2012 in the National Assembly, which is particularly interesting, even if we know that the Committee on Foreign Policy is headed by a person who is signed under today's interpolation. That Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec really gave much to the expertise, dialogue, broad views and experience, also shows the fact that in 2012 and again in 2014 he appointed the Strategic Council for Foreign Affairs, which is the consultative body of the Minister. It is attended by former foreign ministers, some former ambassadors, the President of the Slovenian Society for International Relations, representatives of the academic sphere, the President of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on EU Affairs and representatives of the Office of the President and the Cabinet of the President of the Government. The Strategic Council has already discussed many issues, including Palestine, Croatia, the future of the EU and the legacy of the Austrian State Treaty. Speaking of Palestine, it is unusual that you have also signed a statement on the non-recognition of Palestine in the SDS, since it is evident that the recognition of Palestine itself is not favoured, even if we take note that you voted against the decisions of the Government at the 7th urgent meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy which require the submission of a decision on the recognition of Palestine. The government's intention to recognise Palestine remains, of course. In this light, Slovenia supported the UN General Assembly resolution, which was adopted on 15 September 2015, which provides that the Palestinian flag is also outstanding in front of the UN headquarters. Minister Erjavec himself attended the ceremony at this symbolic raise of the flag. We must also remember that the Government has also suspended the treatment of the aspects and effects of the recognition of Palestine as an independent and sovereign State because it has understood that the Committee on Foreign Policy will have hosted the members of the Committee on the Foreign and Security Policy of the Israeli Parliament before then, but that has not yet been achieved. So, if I shorten, even in the Desus Group, we want the recognition of Palestine, but we support the Government in its desire to do so at the moment when recognition will have the greatest political weight in the international community, and thus the positive effects on the revival of the Middle East peace process. Finally, if I touch the last readings of the interpretation, that is to say, for your taste of reckless, irresponsible and unconvincing statements made by Minister Erjavac. These marks are completely depressed and do not really deserve a serious answer, as you have taken the statements out of context, puffed up and manipulated them today. For example, let us take an obvious statement for Velenjska local TV, where Minister Erjavec said nothing but a quote from the arbitration agreement saying that the court will determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. No more and no less. This is the duty of the arbitral tribunal, which has all the necessary powers to do so. On this point, however, I wonder who is the one who, with his misleading statements, is doing harm to this country. And a few words about economic diplomacy. Karl Erjavec visited the research and development centre of the car manufacturer Hyundai Kia in Namyang in South Korea, accompanied by a branch economic delegation of the Slovenian automotive cluster, and visited the production plant of the Slovenian company Kolektor Sinyung Industrial, which was accompanied by entrepreneurs from the field of information and communication technologies on the South American tour. In Sao Paulo, he participated, among other things, in the festive establishment of the Slovenian-Brazil Chamber of Economics, and a very important meeting of Minister Erjavac with the Rio de Janeiro Industry Federation was intended to explore the possibility of strengthening economic cooperation, particularly in the Olympic Games, which Brazil will host this year. Minister Erjavec also participated in the Expo in Milan, where Slovenian furniture and designers presented themselves and with strong economic delegations visited Hungary – the topics were transport, logistics, energy and tourism, Czech Republic – logistics and infrastructure, Ukraine – general delegations, Peru, and Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Slovakia, not to mention. In September 2015, Minister Erjavec participated in a business forum in Kazan, where he led a mixed committee for economic cooperation with the Russian Federation, accompanied by an economic delegation focusing on information and telecommunications. As we can see for ourselves, the Minister of Management and Guidance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has optimized and focused on the real thing, this is economic diplomacy. In view of all this, we could even say peacefully that Minister Karl Erjavec is actually one of the best foreign ministers Slovenia has ever had. Exports have been a major generator of our economic recovery, according to the data of Umarja, and economic diplomacy has certainly promoted this. In 2014, exports increased by 6.9% and by 4.4 percentage points last year, all resulting in one of the highest economic growth in the EU. Let me remind you, in 2014 it was 3 and last year it was 2.9%. Finally, Mr Aleksander Zázdnik, President of the Association of Managers, said at the Portorož Congress that, as the Association of Managers, they expect the continuation of economic diplomacy, as it must be said that they are doing very well. The Minister's good management of the external department speaks only for himself, the economy supports him, diplomats and professions of various political views appreciate him, as they say in public. For example, I will mention only the esteemed judge in the European Court of Human Rights, Boštjan M. Zupančič, who said in an interview with the Council on 6 August 2015 that Minister Erjavac personally does not know, but I quote, "those diplomats with whom I am in contact speak only positively of him." Of course, in the Desus Group of Interpellations against Minister Erjavac, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to both the presidents, to the ministerial assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Foreign Minister Karl Erjavec! In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the interpretation of the Foreign Minister, Karl Erjavac, is not well prepared. The arguments in the interpretation that Slovenian policy is ineffective, that the Minister does not implement matters in accordance with the general guidelines established by the National Assembly and thus violates Article 2 of the Law on Foreign Affairs are flat, empty, without the right arguments and unconcreteable. We must not ignore the fact that two key foreign policy documents were prepared and adopted in 2015, we are talking about the Foreign Policy Declaration and the Strategic Document on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. A number of economic diplomacy activities have been carried out, innovations and improvements in consular activities have been introduced. It is clear that Slovenia is under-strategised with the European Union and NATO and too much with Russia that it is dry and out of place. Slovenia does not ignore relations with members of the European Union, is a responsible and credible partner, and has strategic partnerships with some countries. It is true, however, that in some international issues with the Russian Federation we differ, but it is important to note the importance of Slovenia's economic cooperation with Russia, which is very useful for Slovenia. Relations with the United States are good and absolutely flawed, as Slovenia and the United States are involved in education, science, technology, humanitarian and development assistance. It also invests a great deal in promotion, economy, tourism, culture and so on. The perceptions of non-action against diplomats who have committed irregularities and financial fraud, as well as the evidence of clientelistic recruitment, are serious and must not be suppressed in any way under the carpet. However, there are no concrete cases, facts, evidence to support these claims. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats remind the Minister of the long delay in the process of recognition of Palestine as a sovereign, independent state. The Minister has already stated that by the end of 2015 the Government will be proposing the recognition of Palestine, even if no other member of the European Union will do so. The Minister, however, is now responsible for waiting for an appropriate moment of recognition, which includes recognition only within a group of several members of the European Union. Experts in international law are of the view that the international legal criteria for recognition are met, as binding resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, which call for Israel to withdraw from the occupied territories before the 1967 war, namely the so-called 1949 Green Line, must be respected. In addition, in 2012 the status of observer country was recognised in the General Assembly of the United Nations. So we see no longer the point in waiting for the right moment of recognition, since it is high time for the Palestinian people to get what they deserve: an independent and democratic country that will allow for peace, security, on the basis of the right to self-determination and full respect for international law. With regard to the arbitration agreement and the listening affair that erupted last summer, we were shocked by the Social Democrats that the Minister not only responded to the developments surrounding the arbitration agreement in a way that would break the holiday and join the mobilisation of the political summit, which would not only be expected of the leader of Slovenian diplomacy, but necessarily. It is certainly important to stress that the Minister has a very difficult and responsible job in this mandate due to the unpredictable developments in the international area. The Minister has made mistakes, but we are convinced by the Social Democrats that these mistakes have no weight whatsoever to justify this interpretation. This claim further substantiates the content of the interpolation itself, which is empty, the claims are unfounded and flat-rate, even it seems to be written on a quick and casual basis. We are therefore convinced by the Social Democrats that this move is yet another of the opposition's many attempts to bring dissension into the current government, and that it is not a choice of means, but even less of a path. We will not support the social democrats of interpretation against Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u13	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! In the United Left, we will not support the Minister. Slovenia does not need the foreign policy of Karl Viktor Erjavac. We're also not going to support the interpolation. Our citizens and citizens really do not need foreign policy to the extent of the NSI and SDS, which is contrary to the interests of citizens as well as global peace. The question of what policy is in the interest of our citizens has been put to the test whether our policy should be pro-Russian or pro-American. The answer is, of course, somewhere else - our foreign policy must defend equality between countries. The appropriate foreign policy is not anti-American, because we are not against Americans in general, but anti-imperialist. The relevant foreign policy is against the policy of military and economic subordination of the world led by the US administration. The relevant foreign policy is also not pro-Russian, because we do not defend one or another regime, but respect the right of all countries, as well as Russia, to resist the hegemony of the United States, which threatens their independence and development. Those who believe that hegemony is purely military and that it does not concern the Republic of Slovenia are wrong. The Hegemon requirements of global capital also threaten our economy, our agriculture and our social state. Let us only take a single European market for services, a single capital market and investment agreements such as the TTIP. These are specific requirements to give up once-acquired social security, labour rights and environmental standards. In short, to renounce the right to remain outside the world's system of subjugation and exploitation. It is the appropriate foreign policy that guarantees this right equally to us and to other countries. Minister Erjavec such a policy, unfortunately, does not lead. This can be highlighted by examples of two central foreign policy problems of our time, the war in Ukraine and the war in the Arab world. As far as Ukraine is concerned. The real anecdotes well illustrates the lack of independence of this government's foreign policy. When the civil war began in Ukraine, Minister Erjavec took a constructive position, proposing that Slovenia should mediate between the European Union and Russia. At that time, the media mocked and forgot that Slovenia hosted a historic meeting between Bush and Putin in 2001. Mr Erjavec soon gave up his proposal after the visit of Lavrov to Slovenia was interrupted by the US administration. Moreover, the foreign policy began to be somewhat more guided by American views. Now let us move from anecdotes to specific cases. The civil war in Ukraine came from nothing. It was a product of the export of democratic values, as described by the paradoxical methods of American foreign policy. The Majdan Strait was already the second orange revolution in Ukraine, which, of course, did not liberate the Ukrainians, but brought into power a second suit of oligarchs and extreme nationalists. In December 2014, U.S. Undersecretary of State Victoria Nuland publicly announced that the United States invested $5 billion in Ukrainian democracy. And from the sky, it's soaking that the United States will want this money back, and they will get it at the expense of the social rights, living standards and the natural wealth of the Ukrainian population. Mr Erjavec offered a dialogue at the time of March and supported the imposition of sanctions against the Russian Federation already in July. The peace process in Ukraine is most blocked by the Kiev government because it does not fulfil the promise of Dombas' autonomy. Maintaining sanctions is a direct support for such policies. Also due to these sanctions, the economic and social situation in Ukraine and Russia today is the worst since the crisis in 1998. Nevertheless, Mr Erjavec never criticised the Kiev authorities, but he always voted in favour of tightening and extending sanctions. Mr Erjavec will, of course, reply that Slovenia is leading a moderate policy and that it maintains good relations with the Russian Federation, but that is not true. It is true that Mr Erjavec likes to be painted with Russian politicians if he is allowed to do so by an American diplomat, but it is quiet when he should, for example, advocate the lifting of economic sanctions. Economic sanctions do not affect politicians but affect the entire Russian population, in particular pensioners who depend on the state budget. Minister Erjavac's policies are inadequate. It is inadequate because European foreign policy is subordinated to the US; it is inadequate because Slovenian foreign policy is subject to European policy and is inadequate because it does not see that it is not only the right to the independent development of Russia but also the right to the independent development of Slovenia and each individual country. As far as the Arab world is concerned. We also have here, unfortunately, one real anecdotes. In September 2014, the United States set up a coalition to fight ISIS. The United States has also listed Slovenia. Minister Erjavec has publicly admitted that the United States has listed us without his knowledge and consent. Instead of protesting, the minister stated that he did not see the problem and that he might mention the matter to the US Ambassador on a second occasion. In December 2014, he had already attended an official coalition meeting in Brussels. In January this year, the Government adopted a decision to send military instructors to Iraq. Ergo! It probably doesn't have to be repeated that the Arab world is the greatest victim of American imperialism. This is where the American doctrine of preventative attacks went as far as possible. First, they isolated the country with sanctions, when the regimes exacerbated the repression, the United States intervened militaryly and occupied the country. There was a breakdown of the state and civil war. It was a script in Iraq. In Libya and Syria, they used a Ukrainian script; first they started a civil war, then they intervened. Regardless of the scenario, the result was the same – the total destruction of all civilian infrastructures. Significantly, they did not attack theocratic regimes, but secular states at a solid stage of development. They destroyed countries that did not want to join the world capitalist system under American conditions. The more obvious denial of the right to autonomous development, the more it is impossible to imagine. However, let us limit ourselves to the mandate of this government. In this government's mandate, we have become part of a coalition, including Turkey. This country is fighting its own Kurdish population. The fight against terrorism uses it to attack Kurdish organisations in Iraq and now Syria. Whatever we think of it, the fact is that ISIS sells oil through Turkey and is supplied through Turkish territory. At what meeting of the countries of NATO, at which bilateral visit did Minister Erjavec protest this? The Minister could have said that Slovenia will help Kurds with military instructors, but will not say that the regime in Erbil is living off economic relations with Turkey. Turkey, however, exploits the help of pedestrians to occupy part of Iraqi territory against the will of the Iraqi government. What service does Slovenia do to the Turkish Kurd by including Turkey on the list of safe countries? In the United Left we want to be realistic, of course Slovenia's decisions will not change the reality, but policies and political classes that are not able to defend equality between countries or at the principle level will not, of course, protect Slovenia's interests nor on practical issues. If today we voted in favour of the interpretation proposed by the NSI and the SDS, we would not dismiss the poor foreign minister. If we supported the Foreign Minister today, we would morally support the continuation of this spineless policy. In the United Left, we will hold back and thus give no confidence to the foreign policy of the entire political class.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u15	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Finally! This interpellation was written after 2015 when we were amazed to learn that Minister Karl Erjavec helped Croatia sabotage the arbitration. In the summer we estimated that by disclosing Minister Erjavac we could further harm Slovenia, so we postponed the intervention to this year. Today we will prove how Minister Erjavec helped Croatia break the arbitration and thereby undermined Slovenia's interests. Since some of the documents they have bear the mark in confidence and in secret, at the end of today's debate I will propose to close the meeting to the public and to present these documents to the entire parliamentary public or Members. Today will not be lost, as we will show Members and Members and also the Slovenian public how Minister Erjavec, on which all governments depend in the last 12 years, has harmed Slovenia. The damage caused by Minister Erjavec of Slovenia is measured in millions. If Minister Erjavec remains in position according to the arguments and documents presented, it will be a first-class scandal and a tragic day for Slovenia. If the ruling coalition, after today's debate and the arguments presented, protect the Minister, then it is clear that the government is a coalition that gives us political survival greater weight than the welfare of Slovenia. Minister Erjavec referred to me as Parliamentary James Bond following the intervention. Thank you very much, Minister. You know, James Bond is a positive character. James Bond fights the criminals, fights the forces of darkness and evil, even though Bond is bleeding or injured, in the end he always overcomes evil well. I believe that today the majority of Members will vote in favour of the Minister's discharge and say no to corruption and clientism and put the country first. I will continue to show and prove how Minister Erjavec: for the first time, helped Croatia break the arbitration; for the second time, he caused millions of damage in the case of savers of the Ljubljana Bank; for the third time, in the migration crisis he completely cancelled; for the fourth time, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he employed clientistic and corruption. First, about the arbitration. Slovenia blocked Croatia on its way to the European Union because of the border dispute. After the pressure of the superpowers and their incentives to find a way for the country to resolve the border dispute and to end the blockade, they signed an agreement on 4 November 2009 to submit an arbitration on the ground and maritime dispute. In accordance with Article 3 of the Arbitration Agreement, the arbitral tribunal also had to establish contact with the open sea. Arbitration is the only tool left for Slovenia today to establish a fair border with Croatia. It is clear from the outset that the arbitration does not correspond to Croatia. There are arguments in the arbitration and, in the case of Croatia's border disputes with Slovenia, Serbia and Montenegro, the arguments are not on the Croatian side. All after Croatia's entry into the European Union, our southern neighbours are trying to get out of arbitration. What's shocking about all this is that our foreign minister is helping them. Karl Erjavec gave an interview in spring 2015 for Velenje Regional Television, he said, quote: "On the information that I have, which will otherwise be very informal, also on the basis of some of the feelings that our legal group has, which is made up of the most respected lawyers for maritime law, I somehow have some optimism that the arbitral tribunal will determine this contact with the open sea." Mr Minister, the arbitral tribunal has already imposed Article 3 of the Arbitration Treaty on the determination of contact with the high seas, and it is therefore clear that it is the duty of the court to determine contact with the high seas, with the optimism of our lawyers completely irrelevant. This was also observed by Croats. In view of Minister Erjavac's statements on 30 April 2015, Croatia sent the Court of Arbitration and expressed concern about the confidentiality of the information in the arbitration procedure. Croatia has highlighted in particular that in Minister Erjavac's statement, I now quote, "it is possible to interpret them in such a way as to suggest that one party to the proceedings may have an informal communication channel with a court which could jeopardise the arbitration procedure and its outcome". Now listen very well; on May 5, 2015, the arbitral tribunal issued a warning to Minister Erjavac that his statements were not helpful in resolving the dispute. Here! This is the letter, this is a reminder to our Foreign Minister, issued on May 5, 2015, second paragraph. Minister Erjavec gets a reminder. Despite a warning from the Arbitral Court Karl Erjavec strikes again in June 2015, this is only a month after the warning given, when I quote him, "that the decision of the arbitral tribunal will be taken after the parliamentary elections in Croatia." Croatians, of course, use Erjavce's statement against us again and interpret it so that Erjavec knows more than he should. A month later, this is in July 2015 the arbitral tribunal officially confirms that they intend to announce their decision in December 2015. But Croatia does not wait long, only 12 days after the court has announced when the judgment will be handed down, it strikes with the publication of the hearings, that is 22 July 2015. Croatian daily Vecerni List apparently based on information already published by the Serbian newspaper. publish transcripts of the audio recordings of the talks between Slovenian arbitrator Dr. Jerne Sekolec and the official of the Slovenian minister Simono Drenik. Immediately after the hearings were published, the Slovenian side made the first mistake; the Slovenian government did not order an inquiry into the credibility of the hearings, but in its actions and statements it created the impression that it was credible hearings. Slovenian Prime Minister Dr Cerar said that he demanded the resignation of Secolec and Drennikov and that the Slovenian government did not know about the communication between them. Skull and Drenick have stepped down. The determination of the credibility of the recordings should be necessary and only on the basis of the results should the President of the Government decide how Slovenia should act. But what if it is a major fraud prepared by Croatia at the request of the discreditation of arbitration? You can imagine, during the greatest arbitral crisis, Minister Erjavec simply does not interrupt the annual leave, but is calmly allowing us to move forward. Minister, is this intentional or arranged? A scandal without a case for which the Minister should have resigned in the summer of 2015! Croatia launched a listening affair at an interesting time; during vacations when most Slovenian citizens have already booked holidays in Croatia and before the Vienna Security Conference, which would present arbitration as a model for resolving border disputes in the Balkans. Excellent timing, not too soon and not too late! Six days after the hearings were published, this is 28 July 2015, Slovenia appoints Ronnie Abraham, President of the International Court of Justice, as a member of the arbitration panel. The following day Minister Erjavec again sabotages arbitration with a new statement. He said, "Yesterday was a great victory for Slovenian diplomacy." He did so despite a warning from the arbitral tribunal received two months earlier that such statements would not benefit the arbitration procedure. On the same day as Minister Erjavec made the above statement, the Croatian Parliament unanimously decides to end the arbitration on charges of serious violations of the arbitration rules by Slovenia. Croatia shall inform the court that the arbitration agreement has been fully and irreparably compromised, and there is no tool to remedy the damage caused by the procedure and the arbitration agreement, according to Croatia. But on August 5th, Slovenia was struck again. The Slovenian arbitrator Abraham also resigns. In a statement to the media, the arbitral tribunal reported: "Court Abraham informed the court that he had agreed to be appointed in the hope that this would help restore confidence between the parties and the arbitral tribunal and that this would allow a normal continuation of the procedure with the consent of both parties. After realizing that the current situation could not meet this expectation, Judge Abraham felt that it was no longer appropriate for him to act as an arbitrator in this proceedings." In his statements, Minister Erjavec upheld the Croatian argument that the arbitration procedure was irreparably compromised. As if all of this were not enough, Minister Erjavec struck again on December 21st last year with a statement: "This is where Karl will surely win." Karl Erjavc's statements sabotaged the arbitration process and helped Croatia in its argument, as the minister, in his statements, created the impression that Slovenians had privileged status in the process. It is scandalous that Karl Erjavec did all of this, despite being warned by the arbitral tribunal in May 2015 not to do so, and despite being bound by the obligations laid down in Article 10 of the arbitration agreement, which states that he refrains from any act or declaration that could exacerbate the dispute or jeopardize the work of the arbitral tribunal. Without an exaggeration, we can conclude that Minister Erjavec, with his statements on VTV, with a statement at the time of the announcement of the decision, with a statement on the victory of Slovenian diplomacy and with Karl's statement, will win, will help Croatia sabotage the arbitration process. Once in a while, it could be a mistake. However, the four statements that benefit Croatia are slanderous, which should prompt the Minister to step down immediately. At the same time, it would also be worth exploring whether Minister Erjavec worked voluntarily for Croatia or was forced to do so. Next story, savers, which is extremely complex. The story with the Croatian savers of the Ljubljana Bank is very similar to the arbitration. Minister Erjavec caused millions of damage to Slovenia by his underestimated and unrealistic approach to the problem. Understanding the responsibility of Minister Erjavac requires knowledge of the context of the story. When Yugoslavia collapsed, all emerging countries guaranteed the role of savers in their territory. The so-called territorial principle has been established. Slovenia has thus guaranteed deposits in banks in its territory, Croatia, in accordance with the territorial principle, has guaranteed deposits in its territory, except for the roles of depositors of Ljubljana Banka in Zagreb, and has thus made an exception, which is not the case in international law. It was obvious that Croatia wanted to impose on Slovenia the payment of the debt of the Ljubljana Bank to Croatian savers, even though it should be paid on its own in accordance with the territorial principle. In the early 1990s, Ljubljanska banka in Zagreb had more claims on Croatian companies than on the nutritional roles of Croatian committees. The ratio between the debts of Croatian companies and the deposits of the committees was 1.4 to 1, which means that the Croatian companies of Ljubljanski banka in Zagreb owed more than the Ljubljana Bank owed to the Croatian committees. In 2000, the National Bank of Croatia closed the operational account of the Ljubljana Bank with an unacceptable legal measure, preventing them from paying claims to their savers, while also preventing the recovery of their claims to Croatian legal persons. The Ljubljanska Banka had enough assets to pay off all the savings if the National Bank of Croatia allowed it to operate normally and if they were treated in the same way as the branches of banks of other successor countries of the former Yugoslavia. In 2001, the successor countries of the SFRY signed the Vienna Succession Treaty. The Treaty provides for a clear provision that negotiations on foreign exchange deposits should continue between successor countries. The Bank for International Settlements in Basel was agreed on the site of the negotiations. Although Croatia has signed an international treaty and has agreed to negotiate the issue of the depositors of the Ljubljana Bank in Zagreb, it has at the same time encouraged its citizens to recover their foreign exchange savings directly from the Republic of Slovenia. As with the arbitration, Croatia also signed something here and did something completely different. Several Croatian depositors of the Ljubljana Bank have sued Slovenia before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which in 2008 decided definitively for the benefit of Slovenia. It said it was a matter of inheritance, not of the debt of the New Ljubljana Bank or of the Republic of Slovenia. Even after the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights, Croatian courts continued to accept judgments and used the assets of the Ljubljana Bank in Zagreb as a means of paying savers. The Republic of Slovenia disagreed with the position of Croatian courts and continued to call on Croatia to find a mediator together and to resolve the dispute in accordance with the Vienna Succession Treaty under the auspices of the International Bank for Settlement in Basel. All successor countries, except Croatia, were prepared to fulfil this obligation and to continue negotiations. Croatia has not responded to the calls from Basel and also to Slovenia's repeated calls to comply with the obligations of the agreement under the current international treaty. That's the context. Now Karl Erjavec enters the game and sabotages Slovenia again. He imagined that with Croats in bilateral talks he would solve something that we failed to do even with the existing international treaty. Karl Erjavec, on purpose, may have offered Croatia a tactical advantage or severely overestimated his abilities. In the case of Croatian savers, Croatia signed an international treaty on the succession and judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in 2008 in our favour. You can imagine how powerful two jokers were spent by Minister Erjavec! Today, he is responsible for more than 100 million euros in damage that Slovenia will have to pay to the savers of the former Ljubljana Bank. Instead of insisting on the Vienna Succession Treaty of 2001 and calling on Croatia to seek a solution with the assistance of a mediator under the auspices of the International Bank for Settlements in Basel, where the debts of Croatian companies to the Ljubljana Bank and not only the role of Croatian savers will be taken into account, he and Croatia have embarked on direct talks. Croatia, of course, tactically made excellent use of the opportunity given by Minister Erjavec. Prior to Erjavce's intervention, the key issues were the outstanding foreign exchange deposits and, after the Minister's intervention, the Croats put the transfer of foreign exchange deposits on the table. The Croats were willing to discuss only the debts of the Ljubljana Bank in direct talks, and nothing about its claims on Croatian companies. When Minister Erjavec spoke with the Croats, they, in parallel with Bosnia, were preparing a new attack on Slovenia with a new case before the European Court of Human Rights. Minister Erjavec used his sharp statements to create the appearance of an unrelenting negotiator who would achieve a favourable solution for Slovenia. According to his own words, he was picking up cheap political points, in terms of, I'm an unrelenting negotiator and I'm going to solve the problem. Croatia, however, has been buying time with the Minister's intervention not to agree on anything, but at the same time, they continue to squeeze Slovenia by filing lawsuits. A key achievement, I underline, was the key achievement of Croatia that it had achieved with Minister Erjavac that it had deviated from the territorial principle. When Prime Minister Janez Janša saw the ministers — that is, Erjavce’s interventions and discussions in the wrong direction — he took away his powers and agreed with Milanovic on a wet memorandum. In the memorandum, Janša and Milanović wrote that the issue of transferred applications will be resolved on the basis of the Vienna Succession Treaty, which is under the auspices of the Bank for International Settlements in Basel. Janša therefore returned matters with a memorandum to the beginning, that is to say the 2001 Vienna Succession Treaty. The agreement was still in the memorandum to ensure that the final solutions to the problem of Zagreb were put in place to ensure that all court proceedings carried out on behalf of the government on behalf of the Croatian courts were not brought to a standstill and that no new proceedings were initiated. The Slovenian Government, however, committed in the Memorandum to launch the ratification process of Croatia's accession treaty with the EU immediately in the National Assembly. Slovenia has completed its part of the task as always, and Croatia has taken advantage of the turmoil in Slovenia and has not ratified the memorandum – perhaps some other details at a confidential meeting. Karl Erjavec, in his activities with regard to the Croatian savers of the Ljubljana Bank of Croatia, allowed Croatia to gain the bargaining advantage that Croatia has enjoyed with the new ruling of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Ališić v Slovenija in 2014. Although it is Bosnian savers, the judgment also applies to Croatians. I know Minister Erjavec will say he wanted to solve an open question. He did save him by imposing a multi-hundred-million burden on Slovenia. Can you imagine how many pensions we could pay for this money? It would be better if Minister Erjavec left the issue of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank alone. We would still have an open question, but the state budget would protect the multi-hundred-million burden. Minister Erjavec lost something that seemed impossible to lose, we had a valid international succession treaty, we had a lawsuit before the European Court of Human Rights in 2008. It is amazing that we will have to pay even the savers of the Ljubljana Bank from Sarajevo, despite the fact that they have nationalised us to Bosnia Ljubljana Bank. Can you imagine the Bosnians taking our bank, and we have to pay off the bank's debts! The achievements of Minister Erjavac are truly incredible! The migration crisis; we all know quite well about the migration crisis in 2015. You certainly remember that in the summer the Hungarians announced the construction of the fence at the border with Serbia. It was clear to anyone who could predict at least a little that the migration flow would be diverted. You can imagine what the Slovenian co-ordinator for the migrant crisis, Minister Erjavec, said after the group's meeting. September? I quote: "The migration flow seems to be going over the Balkan route, so there is no special pressure on Slovenia so far. At this point, the number of migrants in Slovenia" – he said – "is even lower than usual, Slovenia is ready to accept 631 people. The awareness that this is a European problem and the humanitarian crisis is also being strengthened within the EU." Minister Erjavec couldn't have been more wrong. He misjudged the power of the current, which later slipped into Slovenia, and misjudged the view of the Member States of the European Union on the migration crisis. The Foreign Minister, who, on the basis of so much information available on the situation in Serbia and Hungary, makes such a false assessment, is dangerous to the country. It is clear that the country was not ready for a strong migratory flow when it clapped in Slovenia and when there were more than 10,000 migrants a day. Karl Erjavec was fully justified by the President of the Government and was relieved of his position as co-ordinator for the migration crisis. During such a major migration crisis, the Foreign Minister would be expected to make a strong effort to find solutions to protect Slovenian interests. If we had an external minister of state, not a politician, I would have focused all efforts in my work on two ways: first looking for solutions to reduce the migratory flow from the south, and secondly, seeking solutions to keep Slovenia within the Schengen area. Do you know if you can list any ministerial initiatives in this direction? I'm sorry, I don't know. Foreign ministers of the EU Member States have worked hard and come up with different initiatives at this time – Minister Erjavec has nothing. Other ministers proposed from the airtight closure of the border to the mini schengen, to the halting of currents with the help of Turkey and so on. During the migration crisis, Minister Erjavec completely cancelled. His close associates say that there are two reasons; first, crisis situations are not the best, and secondly, lack of English is a major obstacle. Client staff at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We read to Minister Karl Erjavac clientelistic recruitment, the politics of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its staff selection, which reduces the quality of the foreign ministry and demotivates other employees in the foreign ministry. Minister Karl Erjavec leaves due control and does not sanction the irregularities committed by his subordinates at the foreign ministry – of course, if they are close to him. In particular, there have been cases of permanent relocation of a member of Desus Robert Kojc and a minister of a close friend of Vlasta Vivod, whom Minister Erjavec, despite the absence of any diplomatic experience, appointed directly to the diplomatic title of the first rank and to the highest official position. Political employment in the Minister's confidence is intended only for the Institute of Temporary Employment in the Cabinet, but only for a certain period of the Minister's duration. Minister Erjavec appointed Robert Kojc after two days of relocation from the Ministry of Environment to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the highest official position, that is, the Acting Director. The Special Competition Commission then found that Robert Kojc was not suitable for managing the Directorate and a new special competition committee was appointed, which found the same. Robert Kojc challenged the decision of this Commission before the Administrative Court, which confirmed the decision of the Commission in March 2014, namely that it is not suitable for managing the Directorate. Despite the judicial inability to manage the Directorate, Minister Erjavec appointed him Deputy Director-General, so that he is the head of the Directorate in the absence of the Director-General. In doing so, he made it clear that the Minister goes so far as to place such members of Desus, who are professionally unfit or incapable of a specific function, even knowingly violating the decisions of the judiciary. It is also interesting to move to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs close friends of Vlasta Vivod. Under the auspices of Minister Erjavac, the government has made an explosive and brilliant career path that many would envy, from a librarian at the Ministry of Defence to a professional diplomat of the first rank and head of the foreign minister's office, although she had no diplomatic experience. According to my sources, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the status of superminister. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he decides on all personnel matters and actually runs the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when Minister Erjavec deals with Desus. The above will permanently occupy the highest diplomatic positions, which constitutes illegal favouritism and elements of the offence of infringement of equality referred to in Article 131 of the Code. The Minister also visibly favours his ambassadorial staff, even when it comes to identifying irregularities with elements of crime. He found serious irregularities at the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Paris, but Minister Erjavec did not report them to the competent authorities, but anonymous applicants did. The responsible Ambassador Veronika Stabej, who is in possession of severe financial fraud and even falsification of documents, has not properly sanctioned her by giving her an exceptional cancellation of her employment and by withdrawing from her diplomatic species, but by giving her only a reminder. This gives a signal to other potential violators that if irregularities are detected they risk only a reminder – of course, if they are on the Minister's side. The Minister acted corruptly as the first irregularities of the ambassador were identified in the first internal opinion in 2012, but were not fully abolished, and the Minister extended the mandate twice. The first extension of the mandate was at the end of August 2013 and only a few days later the ambassador settled with her – and there is probably also a reason why the minister allows it because the ambassador resided with her in the state residence of the daughter of the head of the Minister's Cabinet, Vlasta Vivod, who worked for her as a nanny. Cases can go on for a long time, and since I'm running out of time, I'm going to finish. Would any of you be able to list any external political initiative by Karl Erjavac as foreign minister? I know one thing: Karl Erjavec has offered himself as a mediator in a dispute between Russia and the European Union. This is something like Karl Erjavec offered himself as a mediator in a dispute between Karl Erjavac and Dimitri Rupl. Karl Erjavec simply showed his great ignorance with this initiative. Minister, Slovenia is a member of the European Union. For many times it appears that you do not fully understand that we are part of the European Union. Do you know what we have in common all governments in the last 12 years? The answer is simple: Karl Erjavac! This is a fun political joke for Marsikom, but it is a sad political reality. Who is the man on whom all the last governments depended? He started in SKD, continued in SLS, then in LDS, and ended up in Desus. This rapid change of colors only confirms the fact that Karl Erjavac is the most important career and is willing to forget his basic values for his career. It is also interesting that Karl Erjavec, as president of a party that is supposed to support pensioners, never advocates a resort that includes pensioners. The answer is that as a small coalition partner, he got what was left. At least that's not true of the last government. In the last government, Desus would be easily acquired by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The struggle for pensioners Minister Erjavec always intensifys just before the elections, when the promises of thousands of euros of high pensions fall and so on, after the elections all of this is forgotten. The Statistical Office, however, officially shows that pensions fell by 16.6% during the ministry of Erjavac. Why is this information important? Because they reveal the true nature of Minister Erjavac! Dear coalition! Minister Erjavec is, in our opinion, a simple politician who is only interested in the car, the driver and the security guard. Although it seems to me that today he is a reliable coalition partner, even more reliable than the Social Democrats, believe me that he will turn his back on you on the first occasion when he assesses that he does not need you and that he benefits from leaving! It is your responsibility, however, whether you tolerate an external minister who is helping Croatia to break the arbitration, which in the case of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank of Slovenia caused a million damage, which has been completely cancelled in the migration crisis and which is in charge of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs incurring clienteleism and corruption. We don't support that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm not going to talk about expressions, but as personal interpretations of the story as you've set it out, I don't think they're correct at this level. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u18	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! In these turbulent times, we still need a clear and decisive external policy and, above all, the strong institutions and the professional people who will meet in these institutions. Why do we have a problem with foreign policy? The three pillars of the European Union – we focused primarily on the first and focused on the common monetary policy and economic policy, while the second pillar, the common foreign and security policy, were neglected and we all have problems with foreign policy in Europe. There's no common ground. The period in Slovenia can be assessed as a period of missed opportunities, we have lost a whole series of justices and had a whole series of affairs in the field of foreign policy. We are interested in the role of the minister in particular in relation to Russia – as we have heard before, he was mentioned as the one who will intervene – and we see that in recent days the biggest problem of the European Union is, of course, in addition to the exit of England, the attitude towards Russia, the situation in Ukraine and the concerns of the Baltic countries, what will happen to the Russian population and what is happening there with the influence of Russia. Another issue is the position of Minister in the event of migration. We know that there are key consensuss with our neighbours, such as Austria and Croatia. Thus, we expect greater role and more visible activity, and in particular information – as we have pointed out at previous meetings – information both to Parliament and to the public. And third, I would expect that, given that the second largest party in the coalition, it would provide a clear position on the staffing of both SDH and the relationship to the bank hole. We have not heard this clear point of view so far. As far as the situation at the Ministry is concerned, we would expect clarification of certain issues. For example, the highlight of the Peter Golob case and the events at the Australian Embassy with Dr. Balažica. These matters were somehow not sufficiently enlightened to clarify whether they were whistleblowers or unjustifiable accusations. Furthermore, in particular, the case of Ališić before the Court of Human Rights. It is not clear here who will suffer the damage, whether it will be the State budget or whether it will be the banks that have had a large share of the damage. What if, on the other hand, we have claims that are still outstanding in the Ljubljana Bank in Zagreb if these claims are recovered? Where's the money going? If he goes to the banks, who might own these banks by then, we'll say goodbye to that money. What about the truth about the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, and who is responsible for losing these things? Let me touch the appointments. The career system must, of course, defend itself and we would expect some clarifications here. For example, the Vatican ambassador – the reasons that led to the failure of the official language Economic diplomacy has also been exposed several times. We see that Slovenia is turning to new markets, as is Europe, to important BRIC countries. I wonder if we have opened an embassy and economic representation in Brazil in Sao Paulo, why we have such a bad economic exchange. It's a disastrously bad exchange, two institutions! Of course, I'm curious, in Belarus, where we had our interests over Rick, what happened to the Kempinski Hotel. Is the matter paid or do we still have outstanding claims there? Let me finish. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we expect reasoned and clear answers. We also expect the proposer to clearly present the evidence for this interpretation. If necessary, they should also close the session to see clearly what are the clear reasons for the decision, and then we can make a qualitative decision. I am afraid that everything is going more along the American model, where there is a vague line between entertainment and politics, and it is all going on in some sense of the media show, the so-called experience industry that is growing, and it is bad for the reputation of Parliament and democracy. I therefore expect clear proposals and clear evidence from the proposers first and then from the Minister clear answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister for Foreign Affairs, the two ministers who have remained with us – three, I apologize – the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Above all, today's respected companions of today's meeting from the international community! In order to first break this now very well indicated power of client interpretations and imaginations, I will serve with some objective statistics related to interpretation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Since 1992 there have been more than 30 different interpretations in this area, of which 10 were connected to the first key national resource in the country, are internal matters. Secondly, in the second largest and important key resource of the state, these are foreign affairs. This interpolation is the fourth in this line. In other words: one and a few interpretations every year. So, from this point of view, this event today is nothing special, and I also believe that, from the point of view of the personal long-standing experience of Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac, it is not. However, through this development and the time of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia, we could learn or try to show this maturity in the treatment of interpretations today at this session, which will be a marathon, will take five minutes less than 14 hours, as predicted, to disregard the many other possibilities of procedural interventions that some in this room doctorally master. What is a message and the purpose of the democratic interpolation institute is to control the functioning of the executive branch of power by controlling the parliamentary body by means of this most powerful institution. This, of course, and it is perfectly logical, is done by the opposition, but in responsible democracies it does not do so at all costs and does not do so at the level of personal discreditation, nor political manipulation, but it should do so for the main purpose of examining the objective responsibility for the functioning of the individual minister and thus, in fact, the responsibility that this minister bears in the operation of the headquarters in our country. Judging from the review of the documentation we have received in connection with today's interpolation, even after what we have been able to hear in this good or good two hours already by the interpolation proponents, I fear that we will not, unfortunately, experience this progress today or will not hear it. So far, very little objective, if you want, accusations, but very much more or less political hints and motives that show three different images — from all that we can hear and read so far. The first is the purpose, which goes in the direction of an attempt to defamate the Republic of Slovenia in an international space. The second objective that we can understand is to try to destabilise the current government and thus the other strongest coalition partners in it. The third purpose is to attempt personal disqualification and discreditation of the interpellant. So far, these are images that we can understand from everything we read and hear. Now allow me to take a very general view, very generally, of the achievements or activities of the Republic of Slovenia so far in the international space and thus of the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the final stage of Parliament or the National Assembly in this mandate. What happened? In this mandate, we succeeded in adopting the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia after 17 years. After 17 years! On this basis, the Government has then prepared its operational strategic document for strategic development and the implementation of foreign policy in the Republic of Slovenia; that is, something that has been inherited and has been on the agenda or in the deadlines of a number of mandates. It has also strengthened bilateral and multilateral cooperation in the foreign policy area during this mandate, statistics speak about it, objective facts speak about it, I believe that my colleagues and colleagues will make this even more concrete in the course of the debate. The following issue was reactivated: the implementation of international diplomacy, which passed through mandates from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is also one of the activities or activities for which the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself is directly responsible. Slovenia or the Republic of Slovenia was successful in two important nominations in the international space, in 2015 October being elected as a member of the Council of the United Nations Human Rights Organization, this year as a member of the Executive Committee of UNESCO. All I'm talking about is facts. Then there is a whole new situation here, and it is also crucial in terms of external action, this moment, which this government has not inherited, but it has received because of the evolution of the current situation in the region and also in the world, which is a migration crisis or problem. And in it too, the Republic of Slovenia has more than seen, visible and successfully positioned itself. Through the initiative put by the President of the Government himself at the level of the European Union at the time, at the time, or at the time when this central supranational political structure was unable to find a common single solution, and when it was more than obvious that it had wandered in the topic of not finding any appropriate measures or appropriate guidelines for responding to this problem, the President of the Government now gave everyone in the international community a well-known and well-known proposal to control the migration crisis at the very beginning or at the very beginning of the migration path in Greece or at the border of Greece-Macedonia. Certainly this initiative would not have been so successful if, through the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it had not been successfully promoted and informed by the international community. The international community, which is particularly exposed to interpretation as one with which we do not have established relationships or very poorly cooperate. We are not just talking about neighbouring countries, we are talking about wider Member States of the European Union, we are talking about V4 countries, we are talking about Central Europe, we are talking about transatlantic integration and cooperation. In short, from the point of view of the operation and implementation of Slovenian foreign policy during the time of the mandate of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar and thus Minister Karl Viktor Erjavc as one of the main pillars of international policy in the Republic of Slovenia, it is possible to assess Slovenian foreign policy as active, credible, responsible and also in relation to foreign political partners in solidarity. In no way can we avoid the fact that we did not have a substantive debate – responsible substantive debate, whether it is political or professional if you want. We are waiting and looking for these arguments, because otherwise we will have to accept that more than a political scenario, today's responsible political scenario, we are listening, watching and following the media scenario of reality shows and personal promotions. In short, for the time being, and everything shows that this will be the case, Members and Members of the Modern Centre's Group of the Parties will not give support to this interpretation because it is unfounded in all respects and from all possible points of view. And we can say that at this point. We wish you constructively, also constructively to yourself and, above all, to our democracy and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself, a decent and responsible debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u22	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Speaking of interpretation, we're talking about responsibility. If your memory reaches that far, you will not believe that it was the word, in addition to the ethics and morals on which Dr. Mir Cerar's government was elected. And then it started. When we come to responsibility today, this government has the biggest problems here. This responsibility is about this level of responsibility. In the government of Mira Cerar, when someone steals a pate, he is immediately resolved, if it is electronics, he can continue to do his job, but if he illegally takes more than 40,000 euros, and he returns half of it, which means he illegally takes more than 20,000 euros, and he is declared the best and, in fact, the value of this government. So much for responsibility. It is no wonder, then, that you are also obviously in the coalition today, along with extensions in some party of the opposition, unknown problems and what serious logical problems appear to be like that. First of all, why aren't the readings concrete? And when a name is mentioned, when it comes to customerism, it's said no, but we can't talk about names. That was a while ago, right in this room. After you say direct readings, when you say things aren't concrete, you say, you know, they're personal disqualifications, and that's not how we're gonna do it. And then luckily for anyone else from the so-called opposition scheme, as it was sometimes said, this achievement to say that we will not support the interpellation and we do not support the minister. Wait a minute! Here is needed to resolve 46 votes, that is to say who abstains, either goes out or goes out to eat, or does anything else when voting for a discharge, objectively supports the minister and the ruling coalition and the government as a whole. And so he saves the government's misery, and let it be sold in any way he wants. So obviously the left has problems with logic again, but you know what happens if the left one is no longer a problem – not on the left, very easy. [[…]] It's an old American wisdom from the last century. Well, let's get to the real problems. See, today we are actually interpreting one policy and one policy, specifically the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who would no longer sit in this chair in any normal situation after the meeting last summer. We all agreed, ten years or more, that the issue of access to the open sea is a matter of border management with Croatia of vital importance. And that's how it got all over the line. You said it was Mr. Erjavec's fault. Look, under the Government Act, every minister is objectively responsible for everything that happens in his field. In this case, however, there is more to the issue, and it is also subjective responsibility. You know why? Because the services were alerted — by the way, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wanted to take responsibility for the event, but the services warned everyone involved, the Ministry, everyone who went and had dealings with arbitration that they were constantly being tapped by many secret services, such as those and others. And anyone who deals with international politics knows that every such event is always being eavesdropped – at least by great forces and, of course, those who are directly involved. But the services also offered the Ministry appropriate equipment to disable the hearings, and the minister refused to do so. Of course, he is also personally responsible for what happened. You'll say because Mr. Sekkolec called Mrs. Drennikov on the open line. Yes! And Mrs Drenikova answered him — and that is her fault — but he called. What's the problem now? If both were equipped, as in a normal country, with appropriate listening devices, Mrs Drenikova would probably think something was wrong if Mr Sekkolec called her on an open line. But that's how she accepted the call, and it happened what it was. The fact that this story is very interesting and is by no means clear, because whoever listened to Mr Sekolec's phone chatter, no one can get rid of the impression that he was seriously listening to it, that he was just continuing and just pushing for a conversation that Mrs Drenikov had already wanted to conclude. That, by the way, Mr Skolec, after what was published publicly, was once in the Udba, was just a coincidence. Let the one who thinks the Earth is a flat plate believe it. And what does that mean? This, of course, means that Mr Erjavec is responsible for the biggest foreign policy debate of last year. And he's still in his place! If this did not open immediately last year, because of course it did not want to help Croatia, this is another problem. The problem that remains open is the question of whether you want, even criminal liability, in my opinion, and compensation and what else, for the person who directly caused the matter. Because it is very difficult to believe, or extremely naive, that someone who has dealt with arbitrations for 20 years with such processes would not know that they were listening to him, especially when he was warned about it by the service, but he acted as carelessly as he did — because it was obviously a conscious negligence. Now, whether this was conditioned by some red color, it was comrade aid Milanović – who, by the way, was unsuccessful because HDZ is in power today – or whether it was some green color, and one of what it got, I don't know, it should be investigated. But the fact is that there is also political responsibility for this; the political responsibility borne by a minister who has not done everything he has to do to minimise the possibility of such a thing in advance. But he has abandoned these acts, and abandoning them will take responsibility for himself. The second thing we should discuss is the question of his conduct at the time of the arbitration itself, when even an arbitral tribunal – which is extremely unusual – you can go to see similar developments in similar processes when it comes to other countries – a warning with an official letter from the minister, an official statement that, for God's sake, he should not speak of these things because – I quote from memory – does not help with the purpose of arbitration. Translation into Slovenian: Come on, for God's sake, be quiet, do harm! That one foreign minister has so little tact that he does not realize on his own that one thing is unwise to speak about, and in voting for personal promotion, he puts his interests above the interests of the State, which he represents and represents, is non-Stately, is unacceptable, is irresponsible and should only be sufficient reason to resolve. But obviously you're not capable of dealing with this in a serious way throughout the coalition. Let us add to this everything else that we have already discussed today: the issue of savers, the question of the bank, where one unnecessary intervention has caused Slovenia to be in a worse situation than it was before. There is also a way to say it, for it was done with good intentions. It's just that, you know, the path to hell is under pressure with good intentions. What is the problem of foreign policy in Slovenia – that we have clown foreign policy! This is today's intervention against clown foreign policy. Foreign policy in today's international space is reckless, extremely professional and extremely responsible. There is no foreign policy and there can be no room! And at least it can be a place for naivety. This is where we come up with the current topic, the issue of migrants. I would like to recall what the statements were and what foreign policy was like just a few months ago. When I was at some press conferences at the end of the summer, and the beginning of the autumn was also on TV if you want, he warned about what would happen. I've literally been able to predict some things by day. Back then, the foreign policy was that there was no problem, everything is under control, we're ready for everything, we're all set. I warned you, look, the background is so far away that we can only rely on ourselves. You need to get ahead of yourself in a position that makes it impossible for someone else to put something on your shoulders. Don't take responsibility for all of Europe! I literally used the expression, for God's sake, that Slovenia should not become a precursor to Europe. Because there will be a canal when it did not want to follow the multinational group or specifically Orban, to build a fence, to announce the blockade of the border, and the whole story would go elsewhere. The flow of migrants would have gone elsewhere. No, it was the way it was done. That was naive. Simply put: it was naive. As a result, Slovenia has suffered enormous economic damage, huge political damage and the problem is that people no longer feel safe today. Here it was a net loss that can be assessed, 123 million in this year's budget is for illegal migrants only, but at the same time a law on the implementation of the budget has been adopted, under which there will be no harmonisation for domestic pensioners who should be required by law. So much for how this government advocates the interests of local pensioners. On the other hand, it is much worse everything that is the indirect damage to this process; the indirect damage that is reflected in all the damage that is caused. On trains alone, there was 10 to 15 million damage on the railway, and it is said that there have been 23 million costs in total so far. Yeah. Of course! A little bit of morgen used to be called that! Good morning! In addition, of course, all the indirect damage that is most difficult to measure is the most fatal: Slovenian economists do not invest as much as they do, because they are not sure what will happen in this troubled environment, and people keep money at home, money does not circle, and the economy is dying. All economic forecasts for Slovenia are significantly worse than they were just a few months ago. Part of the blame for this — and this very important part — is undoubtedly borne by foreign policy. Especially because Mr Erjavec has been the coordinator of this process for a long time. I'd like to remind you how sometimes our foreign policy is under the current minister. One month and a half or two months ago, we proposed in Parliament from the SDS that we connect more intensively with the multi-city group. I personally suggested this last summer. Then it became also an official party policy, you received it in the form of points given by President Janez Janša to make a line at the border between Greece and Macedonia. None of this has happened. You will not believe that just two months ago you voted in this House against cooperation with the Multi-Citizen Group. Today, of course, they are performing with them at the Macedonian border and this is literally the last chance for Europe, but surely the only smart chance we have, just all the time lost, all the damage because they did not want to listen to it in time, cannot be recovered. You can't pay back time, but then, by the way, the ideas that the SDS has offered in vain for months are being sold today as ideas of the current government. Yes, of course! As it is said, our people are feeding the evidence. The problem, which then tries to wrap up in some nice words, was that the foreign minister's diplomat spoke only well. Yeah, you know, that's a little bit of a logic problem again. If diplomats speak only well of their boss, that means they're good diplomats, that doesn't necessarily mean he's a good boss. That's not an argument, by the way. It just says that Slovenia has a good and professional diplomatic network, but there are things that shouldn't happen in it. Here again is the question of responsibility; one is the question to the Minister, which we are talking about today, the other is the question of responsibility down within the Ministry. There were things going on that would certainly end with certain sanctions, from financial fraud or, at least, mildly speaking, diplomatically weird stories to what kind of employment; both from the eye, to the home, who is sympathetic to who is in the right party, for example, in what is called Desus. All these are, of course, the reasons why all those who respect the principle of responsibility should vote in favour of the discharge of the Minister, but you are already predicting in the same breath that you will not do so. If the issue of responsibility in the field of foreign policy is not respected, of course this is a very big problem for Slovenia. Foreign policy is not just about walking around and performing nicely and trying to be cute and at home picking up political points. The foreign policy is what I said earlier: it is reckless, determined, extremely professionally standing up for the interests of my country in all areas. And of course, those moves that the state makes are also credible. One such move, which has recently been mildly uncreditable in the field of foreign policy, is also the question of proposing a candidate for UN president. And we come to a paradoxical situation where, given the positions that someone has presented, given the current circumstances that one represents, given who has a woman from where, today is certainly a greater national one, I think there is a smaller national interest to elect a Turk at the head of the UN – by the way, there is no chance, just spending money is this – but it is certainly a greater national interest to elect Trump as President of the United States. This is where we get to one more point: it's nice to have good relations with Russia. This is what incredible energy is invested in. But, ladies and gentlemen, there are two great forces and one of these great powers is also in the united international integrations, the connections in which Slovenia is also, and this is called the US, and we come to an incredible situation when we look at the number of visits, how many times, say, the foreign minister visited the United States and how successful they were and how high they reached. How many times has he been? He'll tell. We will come to the question of what is the relationship with these strategic partners. One's always glorifying, because I'm saying no one would mind if we had a good relationship with Russia, we're certainly all interested in it, but the people of God, so you can't just throw everything else under the table and forget, especially if you're in the integrations that involve it. And then there goes the moves, which then get everyone else into a bad will and a bad will, diplomatically expressed, means that it is materialized in decisions that are to the detriment of Slovenia. We all pay for these decisions. That's what you need to know. If you're not a credible partner in some kind of integration, in some connection, then it turns on you. Some things, I'm sorry, have been neglected here. Mr. Erjavec knows that very well. The problem when we talk about these links is that each one of them has economic and other cooperation. This is not just about having good relations, or about peace, as someone naively imagines. Far from it! Foreign policy has direct consequences always and everywhere in economic cooperation. If you look at what has been happening in recent years, you will see that, with all the political and other forecasting and media chatter, how we are focused on the Balkans, there has actually been no smart initiative here. And the Austrians and many others have driven us away long ago. When it comes to the first economic partner or one who was the most credible political interlocutor. Nor has there been any success here in not saying what a failure is all that represents our cooperation with the entire Western hemisphere, if you want, with the United States, and what our situation is in the European Union. We're in a very awkward situation there now. And that was a diplomatic expression again. No problem, of course, diplomats will give us a good look, they'll say: yes, you're great because we do them favors. But we pay these favors to Slovenians. That's what I was talking about earlier, if you're not very professional and you're being naive. Not only did I say this to Mr Erjavac, but even to Mr Cerar several times, see if you are fulfilling what you are, let's say, at a certain point in time, Germany wants and Slovenia wants to make this happen without thinking about what it will be a little later, in particular in the event of a migrant crisis. Don't think anyone will finally say thank you. No! No! You know what's gonna happen in the end? In the end, they'll expose you to those migrants he won't accept. However, Slovenia is so small that it will no longer be able to send them anywhere. Here was that naivety, and this naivety is being materialized at this very moment in the problems and damage to Slovenia. Because what's going on? The countries where these people came from, the countries of the homeland, and they're perfectly safe, and the Germans won't listen to you to take these people back! How will Slovenia force them? We're dependent on good faith. Good will, you know, with our first neighbors, it's usually about accepting the ones we deliver to them, and then stopping them after the next curve, sending them back. And that, believe me, will be as much as possible, unless this attempt is fully successful, to regret now, once again, six months too late to do what we have proposed in the SDS. To establish a new line with the Multi-urban Group, down significantly south of Slovenia, and to stop the flow of migrants there, and then to prevent them from returning anything to us and to comply with international law in a consistent manner. Then we get to the last problem that's connected to it, and so far, I don't think anyone's mentioned it. Did you notice we're being evicted from Schengen? Or someone will come up here again and they will say, Schengen is no problem, we are a member of Schengen. Yes, we are formal, but in fact not long ago, because Schengen is dead, precisely because of what Slovenia has been doing in recent months. This is again a responsibility and another foreign minister. What we got now – we got a fence on the northern border, we got a huge Austrian military units on the northern border, we got soldiers on the Italian border, Slovenia is kind of surrounded. So much for the success of our foreign policy! Because of the fact that the wrong policy was already basically because it agreed that Slovenia had become the top of the Balkan cork, a precursor to Europe, through which half a million migrants were now streaming. In doing so, it was a terrible mistake not to respect the Schengen rules, which, by the way, is the responsibility of Minister Györkös. But this general situation, which touches international affairs, is also the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs! Today, all economic associations, all entrepreneurs are alerting what a terrible damage it will be just because there are no more free passages because time is wasting because some procedures are happening. If things continue to get worse — and unfortunately things are still going in this direction — things are going to get worse and worse. But someone should be responsible — but nothing happens! It is quite amazing that one interpretation can be argued at so many points of which each should be sufficient to relieve the minister, but the coalition only saves itself because the chairs are more important than the national interest, because the chairs are more important than the welfare of the people. This is State and responsibility according to the principles of Cerara's government! I started with this, and I will end with this today, with the responsibility that can be defined in one sentence – with Cerara's government, when it comes to the question of pate, you are immediately resolved when it comes to electronics, you continue to work when you take 40 000 euros, and you return 20,000, you are the best in the world or at least in Europe, and if you make catastrophic mistakes in the field of foreign policy, which will be paid by the next generation because of the Ljubljana Bank, because of the wrong situation of Slovenia, when it comes to the migrant crisis, because of the wrong, only unilateral integration of Slovenia in this very difficult period, but you can continue to be a minister. In the SDS we say no to this policy and we will vote in favour of the discharge of Mr Karl Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Joseph Horvat, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, my warning, if you'll excuse me. As chairman, you have no right to comment on the views of the Group of Members, which is not what Dr. Brglez would have done. I thank everyone for the debate so far, of course also the Minister, for his understanding, of all the parliamentary groups. However, I am extremely, extremely disappointed with the implementation of the Minister and also with the implementation of the representatives of the coalition parliamentary groups. Why? We've recorded in the interpolation, given some coordinates. In fact, in the Coalition Agreement on Cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the 2014–2018 term, the Foreign Policy chapter in the first paragraph quotes, inter alia, as follows: "The key external policy orientation will be to restore credibility and strengthen the foreign policy visibility of the country and of all our peoples at home and around the world." End of quote. Very good starting point! I quickly welcomed this and even feared that Mr Erjavec, President Desusa, would not sign this coalition agreement. Why? Because if something has to be recovered — and we agree that it is necessary to recover — it means that something has been lost, that the credibility of foreign policy has been lost. But what somehow inspires me with some pessimism is the title of the document itself to be a coalition agreement — that is, it is not a contract. I have some association with self-governance agreements from some past times. So here's the question that's being asked here, especially before the coalition. Are we on the right track with regard to Slovenian foreign policy to restore the credibility of foreign policy and to strengthen the foreign policy visibility of the Republic of Slovenia? If the answer is yes and the argument is yes – O.K., I will be satisfied. This is what I want to say to myself today: Are we on the right track? [[…]] What's this all about? I have already talked about Slovenian diplomacy at the time of our independence, which, unfortunately, is now very relativistic after 25 years. We kind of forgot what to do with it. On June 25, 1991, the wishes and dreams of many of our ancestors came true, and also of us, who were already in this world and in this independence. Then diplomacy could be a model for us today. Some countries did not know, they could not find Slovenia on the globe, but in early 1992 they recognised it. Do you imagine what efforts had to be made to ensure that the countries that first opposed our secession from Yugoslavia, where laws that were not the rule of law were not respected, where human rights were enclaved and some of the great countries opposed them, but after the Slovenian diplomacy had done so well, they acknowledged it. New Slovenia and, also, I can speak on behalf of the co-proposers, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group respects the institutions of the country and the organisations in which the Republic of Slovenia is a member. There's no doubt about it. In fact, the issue of the reckless statements made by Mr Karl Erjavac, the Foreign Minister, was so superficially addressed in the positions of the parliamentary groups. Why am I talking about respect for institutions? I just hang back when I hear or read some of the documents of the permanent arbitral tribunal. All documents, public, which are connected to the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and are published on the website of this court, I read, even download them, I have stored them on my computer. Because they're public and they say a lot. This is not just some ordinary press release, but especially this letter we are mentioning, and it will have to be mentioned several times today. The letter, which was published with the consent of both parties and the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, has the date of 5 May, where it introductoryly states that the tribunal is very concerned and then states why: due to the reckless statements of the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia – here the court uses a very diplomatic vocabulary – which cannot use the whole process. What if they can't use it? Then what? Then they hurt, then they hurt! And it's written by an arbitral tribunal! And you said, "Let it go, throw it in the basket!" No, we the proponents don't throw this in the trash because we respect the permanent arbitral tribunal. It is true that we are already on the Committee on Foreign Policy and also on the Committee on European Union Affairs – I have discussed it myself – that we are custodians, the Committee on Foreign Policy, that we are guardians of the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Both the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Union Affairs have adopted conclusions on the budget of this Ministry, which has now been managed by Mr Karl Erjavec for four years. We discussed very responsibly and said that memberships for international organisations from the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should move, say, to the Ministry of Finance. Since membership itself, such as the United Nations or other international organisations, is not in fact in a narrow sense the functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Committee on European Union Affairs, which I chaired at the time, even went on to conclude that the budget memberships of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would therefore be transferred from the budget to the Ministry of Finance, so that the level of finance for the Ministry would not be reduced. But this is one example or example of how the government does not respect the decisions taken on the committees of the National Assembly or in the National Assembly. Therefore, I often wonder whether we still have parliamentary democracy in Slovenia after 25 years. Who's on top of that pyramid? Who poses whom: either the Parliament or the Parliament of the Government? Yes, indeed, you have announced what the vote will be like, in fact, this vote will not be about the proposed decision to dismiss Mr Karl Erjavac as Minister for Foreign Affairs, admit it, dear colleagues and colleagues, this vote today will be about whether or not you are giving up your seat. Why? Because New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party do not break this coalition, we do not destabilise this country, we do not demolish this government – we have not written it down anywhere. We ourselves, both New Slovenia and SDS, have already had cases when we were in the government and simply replaced the minister if we were not satisfied or for any other reason. We switched them. And no one said, "Now I'm leaving the coalition and overthrowing the government." This is an example of today's debate and today's minister and president of the coalition party. Sometimes I think there's no one over him. Mr Minister has repeatedly mentioned me, in a way I am honored, and he has not said in a single word that I have ever harmed this country in the eight years of my mission here in the National Assembly. He said he wondered why the Committee on Foreign Policy had not referred to urgent or extraordinary meetings to discuss the non-compliance of foreign policy and so on and that it was possible for me to ask the Minister at meetings, as all other members and members of the PSC had. It is true that, under the law, the Committee on Foreign Policy has some kind of privilege to put the issue and initiatives of the members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy on the agenda at monthly regular meetings. I can say that at each of these meetings I have asked a question – but, Mr Minister, the rules of procedure must be respected! I respect him. How, however, should we discuss foreign policy if the Rules of Procedure give me three minutes to ask the question of the Member State and then two more minutes for the supplementary question? Yes, for God's sake, but foreign policy is worth more than discussing foreign policy in five minutes! But sometimes that was the case – I know that you are very busy, I know that you have visits, outside, home and so on – but sometimes it was an extremely important foreign policy event, and we didn't have you at the meeting. Your participation in these meetings, monthly, regular, is actually very poor, Mr Minister. These meetings were held on 16th, first on 28th October 2014, when this government, this coalition, last 24. February this year, a few days ago, i.e. 16 meetings, you were present at these meetings nine times. As a percentage of 56%. Okay, if anyone's satisfied with 56%, fine. I have to say that I'm not, but I understand that the Minister has an obligation. He's improved. Lately, since the intervention, I have always received a written apology from the Committee on Foreign Policy that the Minister has other outstanding obligations and that he cannot come to Parliament. We understand each other. However, I do not understand this because you, Minister Karl Erjavec, are also, in some ways, the Minister for the Affairs of the European Union. You have never been to a meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, except when it may have been associated with the PSC and it was the views of the Republic of Slovenia at the FAC, i.e. the Foreign Affairs Council. With regard to inconsistencies, I recommend that you order your services, but last July we adopted a new declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia, that perhaps your website is somewhat substantive, I am not interested in images, they are substantively renewing to write new, different priorities of Slovenian foreign policy. This is also kind of inconsistent, but it's my well-intentioned proposal, and it's up to you whether you take it or not. That lunch at the Slovenian diplomacy meeting, that's amazing when we have to talk about lunch here, and I'm going to cry. Really, it's lost minutes and hours, and that's it, really. Such a attitude, that is to say – I think I have heard another position of the coalition's parliamentary group, that this is a lost day in the National Assembly, another lost day – such a relationship, colleagues and colleagues, to us who have been sent here, and this goes beyond all limits! I will not use the adjectives that are now born over my head because I want to keep a gallant vocabulary and I do not want to follow some others as far as word selection is concerned. Nor will I answer your question, Mr. Minister, what happened to Horvato at this time. Nothing happened to me, except for a few pleasant events in my private life, which, of course, you're not interested in here. Of course, I was at that lunch, and I certainly, I don't remember, praised the Slovenian diplomatic network. That's what I always do! That doesn't mean I praised the minister, and not now the water to put on my mill, Mr. Minister. We have an excellent diplomatic network! Of course, I'm not going to be rude – not there at lunch – and those you should be sanctioning are not. At my request to you, Mr Minister, last August, you have sent a report on internal control, also in the report – internally closed, and I will soon take it back to my safe – there is a very detailed report on internal control at the Embassy in Paris. 94 measures, colleagues and colleagues, all members and members of the PSC received this because I requested it, 94 measures were written and signed by an internal supervisor. Yes, and then you're insulted, Mr. Secretary, that's an anonymous suit and so on. At that time, I was watching you on TV saying that many people would like to saw you and that you were actually in your house, so, in Youth. I don't go into it what you have inside the house. This is your domain, your responsibility and also your privilege. You did not say anything, members of the coalition, interestingly, no one said about the ecclatic violation of the Republic of Slovenia's foreign policy declaration in the event of a very important candidacy for the UN Secretary-General. In Chapter 4, the declaration requires that the Government should seek the broadest possible social and political consensus when it comes to a.) key policy decisions and b.) for key very important – and this is important, nominations from the Republic of Slovenia! I don't remember anyone talking about it, not even in the P.O.P., in the National Assembly, I just don't remember. Why, then, for God's sake, do we accept documents for which we all boast, how good they are after 17 years and so forth, and then throw them over our shoulder the next minute? This is an example and prove to me that I am not speaking properly! Prove to me that I am abusing your precious time! Yes, of course, as also said a fellow Vice-President of the PSC, Mr Peter Wilphan, it is clear. Again today, I would like to reiterate my thanks to all those who have started with the expert services of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the National Assembly, who are worthy of the adoption of the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia after 17 years. I do not attribute any credit to myself or to the PSC; only one thing that I gave the initiative to the Minister on 28 October 2014 under the agenda item of the Initiative and the question that it would be good to start the debate again, because the previous ones were unsuccessful and had failed to end badly either with the collapse of the government and so on, to start a new debate on the necessary document, which is called the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]] I think that the Committee on Foreign Policy has also done something — thank you from the heart — we have had very good discussions, we have had a public presentation of opinions, we have been on the Apples, the Strategic Council and so on. I think we have a document that has some form and I am also grateful to the Minister and his professional colleagues, especially to the writer of this document, Ambassador Leon Marc. And what's wrong with that now? The only thing is that this coalition, this government has already thrown this document over its shoulder. Let's fix this. Please, let's fix this! And that we are aware of what our basic political and value framework is, that this is EU membership and that we are then acting as such, but not that we are dealing with something, as far as relations with the Russian Federation are concerned, and so on, that I am not going to go further now. And that our basic framework, as far as security is concerned, is our NATO membership. Why? This is logical, because our people have decided plebiscitely for these two associations, for the European Union and for NATO! Because we are united here by common values. Yes, then I particularly underline this moment because, like the minister himself once said: We have problems, Nat's officials actually say that we, the Republic of Slovenia, are only a cost to them. You know, it's good to stabilize public finances, but no, please, on a security account! Ambassadors, czech, what are we now dealing with with with staffing, and Mr Minister has – I know why – deliberately focused only on ambassadors. Some of you have seen that we have no argument that we have just been saying that human resources policy is unprofessional, clientalist and so on. What arguments should we give you? But the papers from the MZZ? We don't have them. If Mr Minister were a real Jacket, as they say, he would put the papers on the table, where we would see them in this term, this year and a half, all calls for ambassadors, other calls and so on. And maybe we should look back for the whole year 2014. As far as the ambassadors are concerned, allow me to read to you what the role of the Committee on Foreign Policy is, and what the Committee on Foreign Policy decides. According to the Minister earlier, in his performance, he doesn't know either, which is why a little of this lesson needs to be repeated. The Law on Foreign Affairs, Article 17, refers to the procedure for the appointment of an ambassador, paragraph 1: "The proposal for the appointment of an ambassador shall be prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Government shall lay down a proposal to appoint an ambassador after consulting the President of the Republic." Second paragraph, note: "After the Government's proposal has been made, the candidate for Ambassador shall be presented to the working body of the National Assembly responsible for Foreign Policy, which shall give an opinion on the presentation." It shall deliver an opinion on the presentation. The decision has been standard since this Law on Foreign Affairs has been in force and it reads: "The Foreign Policy Committee has held a discussion with the candidate for the Extraordinary and Authorised Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia in one country and assessed the presentation of the gentleman, lady, name and surname for the appropriate one." We're talking about a presentation. Actually, we can't and can't, we don't have a legal basis for throwing a candidate as an ambassador, as it's said, if you've done it, because we're giving an opinion on his presentation. And the presentation can be brilliant, and we can tell from the side channels that he was an associate of the Udba. That's how things work. Nor is it true what the Minister has said that everyone is given a unanimous opinion that the presentation was appropriate. That's not true! There are magnetograms where you can see that there's ever a voice against it. And third paragraph, if you allow: "After presentation at the working body of the national assembly responsible for foreign policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall apply for an agregated host country. After receiving the aggressor, the Government shall send a proposal to appoint the President of the Republic. He shall appoint and recall the President of the Republic with an order to be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. If the establishment order is not issued, the President of the Republic shall inform the Government thereof. The President of the Republic shall issue credentials to the Ambassador. If the situation dictates, the Minister of Foreign Affairs may entrust the management of the diplomatic representation to the business manager. Trust letters in this case are issued by the Minister." And the last paragraph: "If the situation dictates, a non-resident ambassador may be appointed who is accredited in one or more countries or international organisations." That's the solution we know. This is a very good technical review of how the Ambassadors of the Republic of Slovenia are appointed and what is the role and decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Of course, we are not interested in Croatian politics either, of course we are not interested, we are interested – that is why we are here today – Slovenian policy and specifically at this meeting Slovenian foreign policy. But as for the arbitration agreement, we see that Croatian politics has been very active, often writing letters to the arbitration tribunal, which, of course, has caused us problems. Palestine. That we are detained until the proposal is considered to recognise Palestine as a state. He even made it clear that the P.O.P. was holding on to this matter. Today, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of whether anyone is in favour of the recognition of Palestine or who is opposed to it is a matter of procedure. This is also the case with communication at the level of communication with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Media. So I'm gonna prove it. I'm telling the truth. We know who made the proposal for recognition of Palestine — the Joint Left Group. At its 7th meeting, on 28 November 2014, on the agenda item, the Committee adopted the following conclusions as an independent and sovereign State: for the first time, the Committee on Foreign Policy, on the basis of a debate held at its 7th urgent meeting on 28 November 2014, from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, requests the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit a decision on the recognition of the State of Palestine, taking into account all aspects and effects of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Comment: As always, the Government submits to the National Assembly a proposal for a decision on the recognition of a country. I've already confirmed a few of them here, Kosovo and so on. And we worked very well here in this area with the Minister because he and the President of the National Assembly were nervous about how we are going to take this matter down now. I could also act like the PSC president, which is not my custom, and I hope that it will not be in the future. The second conclusion that you will have contact – I know it is difficult to listen, foreign policy is difficult, you know. Second conclusion: The Committee on Foreign Policy calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue with all the activities that will make the most effective contribution between the members of the European Union and the institutions of the European Union and international and regional organisations to align their views on the recognition of Palestine as an independent and sovereign country. At the same time, the Committee on Foreign Policy calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take a positive position in the future on Palestine's efforts to join international organisations and their agencies. Third conclusion: The Committee on Foreign Policy took note of the current state of the Middle East peace process and called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue and work more actively in the efforts of the international community, in particular the European Union, to reach an agreement within the framework of the peace process between Palestine and Israel, which would also lead to mutual recognition between the two countries. Decisions were adopted unanimously and in coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And, of course, then come the Minister's position, I do not challenge them, but his position that Slovenia will recognise Palestine when a group of countries are found within the EU to jointly recognise Palestine. If not, says Minister Erjavec, Slovenia will recognise Palestine by the end of 2015, until the end of last year. This is not just me, this is also heard by the media, of course, because we are public officials and are working in public and the journalist on the MMC website Mr Boris Vasov has prepared a good chronology, a good contribution entitled Erjavča's announcement unfulfilled, the recognition of Palestine postponed into the indefinite future. That is to say, this journalist was looking for information both at the MZZ and in the National Assembly. And he was confused himself and he addressed one sub-section of this contribution, the government is waiting for DZ, DZ is waiting for the government. So it's a total mess. Why? Because of the information he received from the MZZ, not from the National Assembly! Now I'm going to explain this in detail. Too bad the President of the National Assembly isn't here, he knows exactly what the schedule for the National Assembly's work is and he'd shake it out of his sleeve, but that might even honor us with that. I am reading this contribution: not only has the Government created a vicious circle of some kind, which further stalls and makes it impossible for the Government and the National Assembly to carry out the recognition decision in more than a year. On 2 July, the Government suspended its consideration of the aspects and effects of the recognition of Palestine and, I quote, "concluded that it would continue after the re-examination of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia". End of quote. That's what the MZZ text said. I don't know anything about that! Does anyone know? There are two vice presidents here. Does anyone know anything about this? It's the government's turn. And please, Mr. Minister, my well-intentioned advice, examine the information that goes out of your house and I will not allow it while I am here – yes, here at the last seat of this Parliament, number 90 – I do not allow it to work with the National Assembly like a pig with a moss. I won't allow it! Of course, it goes on to say, I suppose a pierre or what I know who it was already from the MZZ, that it is the turn of the PZP and that the PZP will continue its debate on Palestine. Someone earlier said we were waiting for a visit to the Knesset, called representatives of the Israeli Parliament. That's what it was about. The former Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to Tel Aviv expressed the wish that the representatives of Knesset would visit the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, through the dispatch. I've put this on the Foreign Policy Committee, you'll remember. The Committee decided to extend an invitation to the Knesset to the PSC. Since then, there has been no answer from Knesset. The new Ambassador to Tel Aviv is working on this, but to this day no signal has yet arrived at the PDO or the National Assembly, no letter, when these representatives should come to Slovenia if they come at all. An invitation which I had to send following a decision by the Committee on Foreign Policy was sent on 22 September – beware, the Government suspended the meeting on 2 July – and the date for the documents was 17 September 2015. So please, those of you who are reading this a little bit are connecting, please be guided on time! July 2nd is before September 22nd in the same year. Is that gonna hold? Bo. My colleague Branko Grimes has already commented on Boštjan M. Zupančič's statement. I won't say it again. A statement that diplomats praise their boss. Sure, what are they gonna do? Normal. But then we don't know anything, but what about those diplomats who might have been removed somewhere in the city, and they're probably very good. We are not talking about this right now, but we will, of course, continue to do so. The United Left, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, I must say that he was somehow mishearing and misreading our interpretation. We said we don't need Charles Victor Erjavac's foreign policy. This is also agreed by the United Left and we continue to need foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. This is no longer the foreign policy of New Slovenia or the SDS. The Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the documents adopted. Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer, SMC, simply flat-rately estimated that the balance sheet of bilateral relations was good, but she did not tell us what these bilateral relations were now. We've analyzed them, we've thought it through, I know it's not that far to see, but when I was a quarter of a century in the economy, I'm mostly interested in effects. What brought us a meeting with the Foreign Minister of the Russian Federation, Germany, etc.? I know you cannot sign the contracts with the Minister, but you can trace the route to the Slovenian economy. I think Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer has mixed things up in time. When Mr Karl Erjavec was the candidate for the Foreign Minister for the first time in the hearing, in 2012, when I was also the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I supported him in this respect, which was, at the time, contrary to our coalition agreement, already signed, but I supported him for economic diplomacy to remain at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And as a result, we went to change the coalition contract. And now Simona Kustec Lipicer says that this is, so at least I understood, the work of this coalition. Look, this thing is four years old. While waiting for the arguments of the party having the best lawyers regarding the arbitration agreement, regarding the letter sent and published on the website by the Permanent Court of Arbitration, I am somewhat disappointed here. Tell me, you're in favour of going to The Hague in front of a court of law to protest, if you don't agree, you say, "Well, come on, it's nothing." There's been an arbitral tribunal, and here's our problem, and here we are afraid, alerting ourselves to what we can get out of it. And one thing, I am concluding this part when we filed an interpellation on 7 January this year, shortly after this newspaper the Work carried out a so-called revolutionary survey and asked if you support the interpretation against Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac. Of the thousands of 18 respondents, 595 replied yes, yes, he had already made so many mistakes that he should have resigned himself. That's 58.5%. It is said that this matter did not grow only on the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party. It's just a pulse, you can say, yes, because polls don't matter, but look, newspapers and media houses do. And as long as they do, we'll read them. Sometimes they do us good, sometimes they don't do us any good. But they are a fact. A thousand and 18 people asked. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Look, I've actually already started my argument, why the interpretation against Minister Karl Erjavac. Of course, I would like to be even more lucid here, and in view of the timing of this matter, I would like to justify it a little bit more. The first issue to be put on must be the basis of Slovenian foreign policy. I think that the foundations of Slovenian foreign policy are actually three, thus also setting some normative orientation for foreign policy. This is certainly a plebiscite of Slovenia for independence, this is integration into the European Union and this is integration into NATO. And here, of course, the fundamental and strategic goals are set, which are then also set in a strategy where we talk about peace, security, we talk about people's well-being, we talk about foreign policy strategy, we are talking about, of course, synchronized relations, international relations and so on. This also leads to Slovenian foreign policy. If we are talking about this, it must be said that when we went to the European Union and to NATO, we have made some commitments, so that Slovenian foreign policy as well, and that citizens and citizens have, if you want, some benefits or services. If I mention in the context of the fact that the Slovenian state budget earmarked for the military 0.97% of gross social product, but under these commitments it should be 2%, this is a first-class foreign policy issue, which cannot be banalised in a way when I was a defence minister, but it was a different one and a swing with my left hand. This cannot actually be done because what Slovenia does not put into this organisation must be given to other countries or given to other countries or may not give to the extent they should. This is why this is a first-class foreign policy issue and it is also in today's international context, in today's international situation when peace is at stake, and I have also stressed this, and this is also stressed by the Norwegian Brigadier General, Swiss and so on, when I say that there is a greater risk of peace throughout Europe, then this question cannot be ignored. As a result, the question was when did the Minister for Foreign Affairs point out this to the Government, when he warned in the National Assembly, when he pointed out to any committee of the National Assembly. Did he pawn his word if not his position? That is why I think, Minister, that this issue cannot be easily underestimated. This also reflects Slovenia's reduced reputation in the framework of NATO and also within the framework of the European Union. Then it seems to me that, if we go to the next question, it is, of course, the fact that the European Council on Foreign Relations or the European External Relations Council prepares an external policy assessment every year. And if you mention a diplomat who has a certain role, and then for this diplomat, who also had a significant role in the past, one way or another, it is easy again in my personal opinion that this person is unjustifiably banalized as, if, look, he is a great friend of Croatia, which can of course be a fact, but he works for the benefit of this countrySee, this may be non-diplomatic and in my personal opinion may not also run to the foreign minister. After all, we will not only have it, but probably also from those people who are well evaluated within this organisation, people who belong to countries where they are citizens, where they are well evaluated, then they will not. [[Incomprehensible]] But this organization has not evaluated only the issues of Slovenia to Croatia. It assesses European foreign policies and in this regard gives positive assessments, negative assessments for all countries. Here is the question that Slovenia has received three negative assessments in this last analysis, namely a negative assessment of the EU's relations with the Russian Federation and the wider Europe, including the Eastern and South-Eastern neighbourhood of the European Union, due to energy policy. And just as it was landing on the South Stream project, this project was not in line with the EU acquis and not with the EU's strategy to reduce its energy dependence on both resources and supply routes. And, Mr. Secretary, these aren't little things. If these are not small things, others are likely to take this into account. In short, relations with the Russian Federation and also the intense relations and intensities of contacts at a high political level, particularly at the time when the Russian Federation annexed Crime and thus part of Ukraine, these relations are somehow different from the common guidelines of the EU Member States and their institutions. The assessment is that Slovenia has weakened the position of the European Union and has disrupted European stability and security at the time of the conflict – this conflict still exists between the Russian Federation and Ukraine. These are not small things or things we can banalise with our left hand. Slovenia has joined the development and democratic world by joining NATO and must therefore also follow the strategies and policies of these basic institutions. Of course, with regard to the contacts mentioned by counterpart Horvat, the Slovenian Foreign Ministry, in particular the Slovenian Minister for Foreign Affairs, the question arises which contacts actually predominate. It is easy to see from this analysis that contacts with countries with a smaller democratic tradition with countries where autocratic aspirations are stronger, more intense than those with a long-standing democratic tradition. Here, of course, is the question of what is the strategy, what is the meaning of these relations. Above all, the fact that contacts with countries with democratic tradition are not deepening, but on the contrary, with countries where autocratic aspirations are stronger. Does this have any effect in the political, security, economic field? And is it, not least, a smart strategy if we are on the other side of the European Union and Nate and maybe there are those who are actually different? There is also the question of how we are positioned in the Western Balkans, what our partnership with Turkey is and how we are finally recognized. And, of course, once again this analysis, which you reject or banalise with your left hand, analyses those countries that have some positive effect, a positive contribution to the Western Balkans. You often focus on the Western Balkans. For 2014, the countries listed here and having a positive impact have contributed positively to the enlargement of the Western Balkans within the European Union and so on, Austria, France, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom for 2015 Germany, Austria, the United Kingdom. And in fact, the Slovenian engagement is not recorded in this study. So, of course, there's a big question here. Also as Turkey and I have a partnership, Belgium, France, Italy and Sweden contributed most to the negotiation process and the convergence of relations between the EU and Turkey after this analysis, including Slovakia over a certain period. Here again is the issue of the strategic direction of Slovenian policy, which is written both in the strategy and in the declaration. If we look at the section on foreign policy visibility of comparable countries, then we can find that Slovenia received a negative assessment in three areas in 2014 and has no positive assessment in the last two years. In 2015, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia were assessed in five areas as leaders. Slovenia is nowhere. I can list other periods. This raises the issue of strategic direction and how the foreign policy space is greater or smaller. Even if we are talking about visa policy, where Slovenia has had a lot of success and also a lot of experience in the past, especially in 2008, when it presided over, and if today we are talking about Europeanisation of countries such as Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova, this is not really Slovenia. More active are Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia. Neither are we when we are talking about the efforts for the rights and release of Julius Timoshenko, and we are not very active here. We're not even active. For example, the active countries are Germany, Lithuania, Poland and Sweden. Even if we are talking about the impact of individual countries on other countries in particular with regard to democratisation, the Europeanisation of the country, then here are those that are successful, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Lithuania, Latvia, the Netherlands, Romania, Slovakia, the United Kingdom, Sweden. We're not here. Were we in charge of sanctions against Russia for its violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity and independence? No, no, no. These were Estonia, France, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania. We're not here. We're not in other areas either. Here are the questions that are now emerging where we really are. Are we on a dead end or on a track that just ends? That was the basic question. Not only does it matter how Slovenia assesses us, how you are assessed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, how the government assesses you, not least how this National Assembly evaluates you, how important it is that we and you, the Minister-respected, because you are leading this foreign policy, are evaluated by your foreign policy partners, especially in the European Union within the framework of NATO and also by strategic partners, those who actually have a strategic role, such as the United States of America. In this context, issues arise within the framework of the strategy and issues arise also within the framework of a declaration addressed by foreign policy. Here today we should answer these questions and say where foreign policy is, even in the light of such analyses, whether or not you accept them or do not accept them. It is not only important whether you accept them, whether they are accepted by the rest of Europe, that the European Union remains and what such analyses mean for them and what such analyses mean for the reputation of Slovenia. If I spoke about foreign policy being unambitious, pale, not proactive, then the question is in fact where foreign policy is and what the views of this foreign policy are. When we speak today and have spoken many times, I have warned many times that there are not sufficiently articulated views on Schengen, that there are not enough clear views on the Schengen of Slovenian foreign policy, including on the Committee on Foreign Policy, that this is causing harm to Slovenia in both the external and the internal political fields. I am not going to talk about the migration crisis today, and there has been a lot of talk about it. But the migration crisis is also a fundamental issue of foreign policy, a fundamental problem of foreign policy and is no longer a challenge today. It is actually going into disaster today, not only in Slovenia, but also in the EU. But don't let that make us feel any better. If we say so, this is also a problem for the EU, it is also a problem and a problem for Slovenia. We have followed too many other positions, including in those documents and those materials that we have received for somehow confirming the positions advocated by the representatives of Slovenia at various meetings within the EU. On this basis, I would expect a cut to be made, ideas to be made, and actually these initiatives to be taken seriously. Serious arguments may also be rejected, but should be taken seriously and should be included, if acceptable, in strategies as well. There is also no responsibility here for not actually doing so. And the question is, what does Slovenia have in mind, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs up to, if you want, as often as I hear by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, new challenges: the still unresolved Greek crisis, Brexit, the migration crisis that continues, instability in the world and in our surroundings. I'm sorry, we're just following some of the positions they write in Brussels too many times, especially at the level of administration, but we're not actually proactive. And that's why we're unbalanced. With regard to arbitration policy, the minister said, among other things today, that the situation after June 24 or 25th did not change much. And he said, "I don't care about Croatian politics." Look, Minister, of course I don't understand that you're not interested in Croatian politics. I think you should be interested in at least enough to prepare appropriate reactions to Croatian politics. If not enough to act proactively. Everything else is actually too small. You can't say, "I'm not interested in Croatian politics," here I quote. And I would not be so sure of what will actually happen to the arbitration agreement and what the outcome of this arbitration agreement will be. I wouldn't be sure anything happened on June 24 and 25. I speak solely in the foreign policy sense, I do not speak in the sense that the costs of this arbitration procedure have increased. I think a lot of things have happened, and a lot more will happen. I wouldn't want to prejudge it, but there's a lot more going on. And that's also, I'll say, irresponsible to simply say, if you do, there's nothing different than it used to be. These objectives, which are written in the strategy, are serious and are quite binding. And you wrote them yourself in the strategy. Yeah, he's adopted a lot of this strategy, but look, I'll give you the authority. But this strategy must be implemented, and it must be implemented actively. And it is true, as you say, that the foreign policy of this country is not entirely up to you, it also depends on the President of the State, the President of the Government, the National Assembly, if you will, many. However, you are the coordinator, the coordinator and you are the one who, in a way, also keeps pace with this foreign policy, is proactive and coordinating and coordinating matters. It is not the intention of each of these institutions that I mentioned earlier in this country. If we are talking about a strategy, I am interested in the effects of this strategy, what is being achieved, what will be achieved and which direction we are going. And we're not going because this strategy says everything in every direction. If we're going in all directions, we're not going in any direction. But if we're going in the wrong direction, we need to be alert. I have mentioned the fundamental starting points of foreign policy, this is the European Union, NATO and, of course, plebiscite. I would also like to say a few words about some of the views of some of my colleagues and colleagues on the purpose of the meeting itself. Here I am thinking mainly of colleague Simono Kustec Lipicer, who mentioned what the purpose was. It is not the purpose of this meeting to defile the Republic of Slovenia, but it is precisely the purpose of Slovenia having a more active role in foreign policy, that Slovenia may also play a more active and different role with the other Minister of Foreign Affairs, such a role as defined in the basic documents of this foreign policy within the framework of the institutions for which it has decided on the plebiscite. With regard to the destabilisation of the government, that's the purpose, you have to judge for yourself how solid that government is. You'll be the judge of that. I think it's up to everyone to judge. If it's solid, then it probably won't be destabilisation either. But if it is not firm, look, and blow away the government, then every leaf that falls from the trees. So check it out here for yourself. I have no intention of discrediting anyone personally, either. So all these intentions mentioned by colleague Kustec Lipicer are not that. When this is mentioned, however, I am afraid that it is intended to talk about what is being achieved by this, after all, when interpreting it, it is clear exactly what is to be achieved – that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will no longer be Karl Viktor Erjavec and foreign policy will change. When these purposes are discussed here, as I have already mentioned, discredit, destabilisation, government, humiliation, etc., this is actually discrediting this national assembly and actually interpolating, which is a perfectly normal instrument in every democratic country, is banal. And let's be serious, substantively defend interpolation and not banalize things. And if you want a substantive debate, let's have it. I'm going to let it go here that it was also the professor's practice to judge everyone else, but I don't even take it the wrong way, it's right to warn each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Once again on my side, everyone, say good-bye! I think it's time I stopped by after a three-hour discussion. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Shirtz, who has no intention of discrediting but intends to discuss foreign policy, its possible shortcomings, so that I thank you for your constructive attitude. However, we also have some debaters, who do not have this attitude, but mainly want to discredit the minister, encourage him, for example, that he may voluntarily or forcibly cooperate with Croatia. I don't think that's worth commenting on. I assure you that I am not cooperating with Croatia, not voluntarily or forcibly, but that I am working in the interest of Slovenia, in the interest of the Slovenian state. It was obvious why we recognized it in some way. I must say that one of the fundamental principles of Christianity in particular is the truth, and in particular it is difficult to deny something when the authors admit it. You must know that the arbitrator Sekulec has been questioned and has made a statement in the arbitration court, and would very quickly find out in the arbitral court that we are moving. So much for why we've admitted that these hearings are credible, maybe they're not. We really don't know this, but according to the statements of both Sekul and our agent, this is quite clear. If we kept it a secret, we'd only be doing ourselves harm. That's all I have to say. We're responsible. On the other hand, I have a great responsibility to spend tens of millions of euros in the case of the Ljubljana Bank. I have to say, this case is over 25 years old. It follows from the time of independence that, as far as the savers of the Ljubljana Bank in Bosnia and Herzegovina are concerned, Bosnian savers have brought an action before the European Court of Human Rights, where they have succeeded. And here I do not see the role of Minister for Foreign Affairs in particular in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016. In fact, this decision must be implemented. This is the original competence of the Ministry of Finance. This is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As far as Bosnian savers are concerned, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was not originally involved, only in the function of the Ministry responsible for external relations. As regards depositors of the Ljubljana Bank in Croatia and transferred deposits. Here I must make it very clear that on 16 February, I was deprived of all my powers by the then Prime Minister Janez Janša to have someone else finish this deal on the memorandum. At that time he was appointed and also obtained all the powers of an ambassador who is now doing his work in Scandinavia. The memo was signed by Janez Janša and signed with Zoran Milanović 11. 3. 2013 I don't know what role I play in the untransferred role of the old Ljubljana Bank, given that my powers have been revoked. So here I propose that you speak to the members of the opposition. I think this is where Ambassador Tonin turned in the wrong direction. The Vienna Convention on this is still in force. The 2001 Vienna Convention in this regard is still in force. The problem with the memorandum is that the Croatian side simply does not respect it. We can't force the Croatian side to respect the memorandum if it doesn't want to. However, I must say that a special group has been set up within the Government to deal with these issues and will also raise appropriate disputes at international institutions. Then it was clear to me that I had been relieved as the migration coordinator. Look, I've never been officially appointed as the co-ordinator for migration, but in my role as Vice-President of the Government, I've coordinated different ministries, and that's four weeks. Then there was the establishment of a crisis group led by the President of the Government. By saying that I have been resolved because I am supposed to be unable to manage and work on matters relating to the migration crisis, there are also common incitements. I have always warned that this migration crisis will deteriorate. At that time, there were many who did not believe it. At the informal ministerial meeting in Luxembourg in September, we, together with Austrian Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz, took the initiative to start a serious debate at the level of foreign ministers on the migration crisis. And it was said that this is not a European problem to be solved by those countries to which this Balkan migration route relates. Today, too, due to the efforts of Slovenia, this view is completely different. We have the initiative of the President of the Government – when asked what Slovenia has done and what the Foreign Minister has done in this regard – we have jointly prepared this initiative of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the cabinet of the President of the Government. Slovenia is extremely active in this respect, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has specifically advocated that this initiative has been presented to countries within the European Union. I presented it at an informal meeting of the European Union's foreign ministers, where a special breakfast was organised. Then I also presented it with my travels to Belgrade, where I presented this initiative and I must say that it was well received. This deception that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has done nothing about migration, I think it is unfounded. I owe Mr Dobovsk some answers, especially why we have an embassy in Brazil and an economic representation, given that the trade is very low. I must say that we have gone this way in particular because we want to strengthen our economic relations with Brazil, in general with South America. My visit last year was in that sense. That is also why I was in Rio de Janeiro to try to get some business in connection with the organisation of the Olympics. I have to say, he went with me a bunch of IT entrepreneurs and they got jobs. The last time I had one presentation of economic diplomacy for last year and the plans at the Chamber of Commerce, where the entire board of directors was located, there were the most prominent directors of Slovenian companies, I received a round of applause, thanks and thanks. As far as economic diplomacy is concerned, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy for his support in 2012 that this part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not go to the Ministry of Economy. There's no problem with that. I think that one of the main foundations of Slovenian foreign policy is economic cooperation and the opening of new markets. It is true, however, that we, as a country, the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, can help more effectively in countries where systems are so oriented that without the consent of their governments, there is no way to get a job. These are examples of the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Turkey. If you want a big infrastructure project, you can't go without their government's approval. But for that, it's a prerequisite for having a good political relationship. If you don't have a good political relationship, there's no way you're gonna be able to get jobs for our companies. Belarus and Kempinski, I don't know the answer to this now, because this is also a private matter, but I can say that we have lifted economic sanctions on Belarus at the European Council on Foreign Affairs and that at the end of the month I will go with 15 economists to Belarus, where we will try to help with business. As far as the case is concerned, I have already explained that this is the case in the Ministry of Finance. As far as the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is concerned, we have never dealt with it because it is the original jurisdiction of the Ministry of Infrastructure. As far as the invitation to tender for the Holy Office or the Vatican is concerned, I must say that this invitation was repeated several times and that we have put it into one of the world languages. However, I must point out that the official language in the Vatican or the Holy Office is Latin and also four other languages: Italian, Spanish, French and English. So there's no breach here. As far as Mr Peter Golob and Mr Balažica are concerned, no one has the status of whistleblower. We've officially checked this out and we've got a negative response. So it's more about people who want to introduce themselves than there are whistleblowers, that they don't have any information, and in fact they're trying to exercise their personal interests in this way. As far as the neighbouring countries are concerned. We want more cooperation, and I must say that we have significantly strengthened our cooperation with neighbouring countries in my mandate. Hungary and I have reintroduced intergovernmental meetings. Austria and I have also introduced coordination of ministers at the country level, Koroška, Styria. Furthermore, with Italy similarly, we have coordination of ministers at the level of the country of Furlania-Julia. As far as Croatia is concerned, I had talks with the Foreign Minister at the edge. Mr Mir Kovac and I have agreed, what is open, to be resolved institutionally, otherwise it is of great interest that we strengthen economic cooperation, but in particular they want better cooperation even when it comes to managing the migration crisis. Perhaps even to Mr. Shirtzl. Look, regardless of the outcome of the vote, even if this interpellation were successful, I would congratulate you and then I could say that Nova Slovenija succeeded with her project. I don't think this interpolation project is going to work. Nevertheless, I want to make it very clear that even if the interpolation had succeeded, the government would not have fallen because of this, and we would not have left the coalition. We already have this experience from 2010 when I was dismissed as Minister and Desus participated in the government while we assessed that this was in favour of our programme and for the benefit of citizens. You're so afraid that the government would fall if today's interpretation were successful because some people would go to lunch, to the bathroom, or anywhere. Maybe I'd like to say a few words about safety. The fact is that people's well-being and security are two priorities of each government, whether it's left or right or not. It is important to know that after 2008, when we were hit by an economic and financial crisis, in particular, it was followed that people should not drop the standard. In order not to drop the standard of education services, in the field of health, in the social fields, because in fact, if we cut the budget there, this would mean a lower standard for citizens. In 2008, 2009, 2010, the international situation was not such as to assess that our security was at risk. I would like to repeat, in 2012, when I was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs, we dealt most with Palestine, the Middle East, Afghanistan, where the operation was successful. At times, however, there has been some intertribal conflict or military coup in Africa. In 2014, 2015 and 2016 the situation in the international space has already changed. In 2012, Syria began, where it looked very innocent in the beginning, we thought it was only a problem to remove Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad and then the problem will be solved there. Then Libya happened to us, where the state collapsed. The Syrian crisis also brought destabilisation to Iraq. New terrorist threats through Daesh or the so-called Islamic State in Egypt, Iran. What has arisen in many unstable areas is that, of course, we cannot go through the Ukrainian crisis, which has also completely changed relations between Russia and the European Union. Last year, I warned that more attention will have to be paid to security, including more funding. This can also be confirmed by fellow ministers, how many times have I warned in the government that we have moved from the financial economic crisis to a security crisis and that those systems that we have weakened in recent years, because the international situation seemed to be different from today, will need to be strengthened. It was mentioned that France was the one that contributed greatly to Turkey's proximity to the European Union, if I understood correctly. This is based on this analysis, which some of you have so strongly promoted. I must say that France is Turkey's biggest obstacle on its way to the European Union. When an agreement was reached between the European Union and Turkey, where one of the conditions is visa liberalisation for the Turks, I can say that French colleagues were not excited about this and that I do not expect visa liberalisation to be realized. With regard to this attention to security and to these international challenges, let me say that last year, when we reorganised the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we introduced the NATO sector. That's exactly what this is about. And the sector for new challenges and threats. Indeed, we find that all these crises around us will take years or may be a permanent companion. We have come from this assessment that it would be good to strengthen this area. Mr President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, first of all let me say that if these shortcomings are on our web, we will address this. Thank you for your well-intentioned advice. Thanks again for that economic diplomacy assistance. But I hope you don't put in any interpretation based on the revolt polls. I think it's a totally inappropriate way. That's how I understood that you just looked at this survey for a thousand people and that 562 people or how many people thought that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was not doing well, and that, on that basis, you were particularly encouraged by the intervention. I hope it's not going to be in a future way, because then every month, because once a month these revolution polls are here in the National Assembly, we're going to have an interpolation. A few words, perhaps, about the Secretary-General, about this candidacy. I must make it very clear: the applicant is not the Government. Dr. Danilo Türk proposed. And they don't propose governments here. However, the government can, of course, support such a candidate, help such a candidate or do not support it and do nothing about it. Therefore, this observation that we have acted contrary to the foreign policy declaration is not true in this case. If I were somehow distorted, we all know that no broader social consensus on Dr. Danil Türk's candidacy would be obtained in this House. I don't know, maybe you can surprise me and say you support this candidacy. But you'd be really surprised. Especially by the two opposition parties. There was a lot of talking about that lunch. Look, it would be gallant on your part, because you say you're gallant, elegant, you have a nice gentlemen's show. It would be good if we could at least mention it. Listen, Minister, but tomorrow we're going to put in an interpolation. That would be very gallant if we did. But you surprised me terribly. That lunch was really very constructive, and the next day you see you get an interpolation. It's kind of weird. But it's okay, because I think we'll still have a good time in the future. As far as the measures in Paris are concerned. That's right. We had diplomatic control there, 94 measures and they were implemented. It would be a problem if these measures were not implemented. Then I would somehow understand your criticism and I would say, okay, I didn't do everything. Then I am told why I did not press charges or that I was offended because it was an anonymous complaint. We haven't finished our procedure yet. It would be completely contrary to the legal principles to press charges before diplomatic supervision was completed. In view of the fact that an anonymous complaint was filed, there was no need for another complaint to be filed with me. With regard to the foreign policy declaration. Why did we go back to the new round of discussions in 2014, when you took up the presidency of the Committee on Foreign Policy? Because three new parties have come to Parliament. It seemed right to me that this debate should be reopened. It was a modern center party, Alenka Bratušek and the United Left. That is why we have repeated this procedure, and you have agreed that it is right for the new parliamentarians to become familiar with the work they have done so far and that we are moving on. I'm also beginning to see that you should step down on the wiretap affair. Look, I would have been objectively responsible if I hadn't taken measures that were necessary in order for this to not happen. As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, we have taken all measures. We had a safe room, they went to education. But if someone consciously does something and knows they shouldn't, the minister can't be responsible for it. I cannot be responsible for Judge Sekolec, who is not even a member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He's part of the arbitration, he's coming from the tribunal. Although he is a Slovenian arbitrator, he is a member of that Senate, and he is largely the chairman of the Senate responsible for his work. That's probably why he had to make a statement and tell us what was going on. However, I am ready to step down immediately if you prove to me that I have abandoned any conduct, that we have not ensured education, that there has been no safe room, but that if someone does something consciously, he knows that he cannot, and I cannot assume objective responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u29	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u31	I would like to respond to the Minister's misrepresentation and to explain my claim that the Minister is responsible for the story concerning the savers of the Ljubljana Bank. I must say that I have come down to this story very carefully, very precisely, I have met with two former foreign ministers and with senior officials working on success or inheritance. Everyone told me the same thing. The master of this procedure is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, while the operational contractor is the Ministry of Finance itself. And the story goes everywhere. Everyone I spoke to, and ministers of left and right colors, are officers of the left and right, said Minister Erjavec was responsible for this million-dollar damage. And I'm curious how Minister Erjavec gets out of this story, if that's not my problem, that's not what I'm dealing with, that's the Ministry of Finance. Of course, because he knows it's a sensitive and important story. In this story, he made a fundamental mistake by withdrawing from that covenant or by not insisting that I would be very precise in my statements. He did not insist in relation to Croatia that all things are strictly carried out according to what the Vienna Treaty of Succession had foreseen. Karl Erjavec is responsible for our resignation and opening bilateral talks with them on this subject, and this is where the Croats brought us around. This is the responsibility of Minister Erjavac and therefore Slovenia will pay millions of damages. And where is Janez Janša in this story now? Janez Janša tried to repair what Mr Erjavec lost. When he saw things going in the wrong direction, he took away his powers and then agreed to a memorandum with Milanović. The main content of this memorandum is that we are going back to the starting point, and this is to that Vienna Succession Treaty. That's the whole point. Then our government fell, Minister Erjavec was still Minister, but Croats then did not realize that memorandum. Prime Minister Janša did what he could in this fiasco of Minister Erjavac, but in this story, Minister Erjavec will have to take responsibility for millions of damages. Why am I telling you this? Because he's going to keep defending himself all the time that it's none of his business. I think with one very simple thing, we can deny it in this area. If this is not a matter for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then why did he and Vesno Pusić lead such talks on this subject? What if it's not his theme? And once again, I'm going to explain something later in more detail, but look, everyone here says that Minister Erjavec has a great responsibility, and as a result, it's a million-dollar damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u32	Mag. Tonin, I'm sorry I shouldn't give you the word for the replica, because first you have to discuss, then you can have the replica. So now all the other Members please, first the debate, then the replica. Now he's signed up for Minister Karl Erjavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u33	Ambassador Tonin is very fond of being coerced. I suggest that, if I am truly responsible for these hundred million damages, then you are obliged and forced, if you say so, to press charges. And I hope you'll press charges, because otherwise it's unworthy of what you're saying. So I suggest you press charges and then we'll see through the criminal procedure and through the judicial procedure where my responsibility lies. But once again, we, because we failed to convince the Croats to respect the Vienna Convention, went into talks with the Croatian side to conclude a memorandum stating that all court proceedings in Croatia stand until a solution to success. And such a treaty, such a memorandum was also signed by the then Prime Minister. Because this was our goal to stop the procedures in Croatia and if these procedures are stopped, we will also give the green light to full membership. And those who were in the closed section of the Foreign Policy Committee when we discussed these issues will be able to understand what is on this subject from the magnetograms. And you're saying I'm responsible for you talking to the former ministers. Let me know who they are, with names and names, and those high-ranking officials. Because that's what we're gonna need in court. Please give these names as well. Because that's irresponsible subterfuge.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you, Madam President. We've cleared up a few things. Mr Erjavec has one very interesting property, that is, he is deceitful. This is sometimes a good quality for the head of diplomacy. But it is not good to explain here in detail three decimals of certain things to answer a question that he also pointed to in his position by his colleague, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek. Ambassadors. You mentioned, you were asked, for example, an ambassador to the Holy Headquarters. You talked about official languages. The official language is Latin. Tell us how many calls were made, where were the problems, whether the call was repeated, if yes, how many times, why, and also what you last talked to the President of the Republic about this. This is now a very exact question, just one country. But we know that Vatican diplomacy is one of the biggest, most important diplomacys in the world, and it is very important who we have there. I don't care who we have, how it's written, but it has to be one who's chosen by regular procedure without a little doubt or suspicion. Last but not least, as I said in the introduction, the Vatican was the first to recognise Slovenia in 1992, on January 13th, and then, in fact, the beach of recognition of the State of the Republic of Slovenia was simply triggered. I have one particular question for you, Mr Minister, a new organisational scheme of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if we are already in the process of recruiting. I don't object, you're responsible, you can make an organizational scheme, I think it's relatively optimal. Did you also use this scheme as an instrument for human rights movements? Because we see that the human resources movement has been and is a logical question that simply falls on the table. I was surprised by your statement: more funding for security than you have just mentioned. But this was a few days after we adopted the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017. I'd say good morning, you're vice-president of the government – and what are we going to do now, go straight to the balance? I think we should do it ourselves. If you'd listened to me, you'd understand what I said about the revolution poll. I said that a few days after our interpolation, the work did a survey, perhaps another newspaper, where 58% of people proved to support interpolation. Yeah, I agree, let's put the polls away, we don't build on the polls either, there was just some information about how people see your functioning. My colleague Matthew has already asked the logical question again. You're saying that NLB savers are under the authority of the Ministry of Finance. Yes, we have so much in mind that we know that you have negotiated with Mrs Vesno Pusic about NLB savers or solving this complex problem. Again, the logical question – why did Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government, take your powers away from you and, in a way, with severe efforts with Milanović, the President of the Croatian Government, somehow reset the matter and put it back in the box where this matter belongs, this is to an agreement on matters of succession. But serious things have happened in between, and now we have the Ališić issue on the table, and we are talking about some 100 million euros in tax money. It is likely that we Members will never receive exact data here, because the matter is, in fact, similar to drilling a bank hole if you want. Even there, I guarantee you, this national assembly or the next or the next composition will never know who the culprits are, because it simply washes the hand. And in this case, it's a similar matter. You're talking about criminal liability. Of course, one is criminal responsibility, and the other is political responsibility, which can have the consequences of another hundred million damages.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Procedurally, mag. Matthew Tonin, then you, Mr. Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u37	Madam Vice-President, I would like only if you could quote me in an article of the Rules of Procedure, which says that I must not report to the replica, even though Minister Erjavec has repeatedly mentioned my name and surname. In view of the fact that Mr Erjavec spoke about the role of the complaint, I would only remind him that one thing can be done perfectly legally, but because of a series of wrong political decisions, it is caused by a hundred million damages. Therefore, in the case of Ljubljana’s savers, it is impossible to say that the minister acted unlawfully, but because of his political decisions, the damage is more than a hundred million because he referred to the wrong things.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure speaks of a replica. Your position, which you have presented, but does not refer to a replica, is that you should check Article 70 or I will not read it because I believe you know it too well. Now Minister Karl Erjavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u39	Very briefly, why did the then president of the government take away my authority? Because we predicted we'd leave the government. That was the only reason he said, "You can't continue to negotiate if you predicted to leave the government." And that was the only reason, and you can read it in the media. However, I must say that I am very surprised that you can be 100 million times responsible for a series of political decisions. I would say so, so many wrong decisions as taken by the National Assembly, which have severe financial implications, I do not think it is possible to speak at the level of one minister. I think you're really overreacting here. If we start to measure the damage caused by political decisions, some have spoken in 1991, if we politically decide to go to independent Slovenia, we will eat grass, we will lose Yugoslav markets, we will not know what. [[…]] And what if, by chance, people made that choice? Therefore, if I am responsible for the multi-hundred-million-dollar damage, I ask that concrete procedures be initiated. However, if there is a series of political decisions, please also list them, from A to Z, which are the wrong political decisions. But I would suggest you start with Loyze Peterlet, the first Prime Minister of the government who could not regulate his relationship with Croatia. Because he was the most responsible. If all these issues had been resolved in time, there would have been neither arbitration nor arbitration by the Ljubljana Bank and there would have been no other issue. So I hope that this former Foreign Minister and former Prime Minister did not advise you. Because if he was advising you, then I understand why I am responsible for a multi-seven-million-dollar damage that you didn't know how to solve in time, that's what this country was doing at the time of its independence.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Minister, now I don't think it's delicious that we're talking about the first president of the so-called self-sustaining government and to him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u42	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u43	For those poor two years of your term, actually load everything that goes wrong in Slovenia today. [[...]] He's the president of the self-sustaining government. Those who stutter, nod, relativize Slovenian independence. We know you. Look, here's the thing. Instead of Mr Karl Erjavec insisting on the Treaty of Vienna, this is an agreement on inheritance issues from 2001, and he asked Croatia to seek a solution with the assistance of a mediator under the auspices of the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, where the debts of Croatian companies to the Ljubljana Bank will also be taken into account – the Minister leaves us – this is obviously a very difficult question – and not only the role of Croatian savers, he and Croatia went into direct talks. Croatia has tactically made excellent use of the opportunity given by Erjavec. Prior to Erjavac's intervention, the key issue was the outstanding foreign exchange deposits. After Jerjavč’s intervention, Croats put the transfer of foreign exchange deposits on the table. In direct talks, Croatia was prepared to discuss only the debts of the Ljubljana Bank. Nothing, nothing about her claims on Croatian companies. Repeat ratio: 1 to 1.4. When Minister Erjavec spoke with Croats, they, in parallel with Bosnia and Herzegovina, were preparing a new attack on Slovenia with a new lawsuit, be careful in the European Court of Human Rights. We know what Slovenia has done. Mr Erjavec, with his activities in connection with the Croatian savers of the Ljubljana Bank, has in some ways enabled Croatia to gain the bargaining advantage that has been crowned by the new judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Ališić v Slovenije in 2014. It needs to be deepened because it's very complex. It'll take you about 10, 15 hours to get through this. It is therefore Bosnian savers, but the judgment also applies to Croatians. I know Minister Erjavec is going to say that he wanted to solve the open question, that the intention must have been honest, but it just didn't work out. He did save him by imposing a multi-hundred-million burden on Slovenia. I repeat, it's difficult, but you can imagine how much you could raise your pension, and I heartily want you to get it for the pensioners. Yes, indeed, those pensioners who have less than 300 euros a month. It would be better if Minister Erjavec left the issue of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank alone, we would still have an open question, but the state budget would protect the multi-hundred-millionth burden. Minister Erjavec lost something that seemed we could never lose. We had a valid international treaty, and we still have it, about an inheritance. We had a lawsuit before the European Court of Human Rights, we had a lawsuit, it was in favour of Slovenia. It is amazing that we will have to pay even the savers of the Ljubljana Bank from Sarajevo, despite the fact that they have nationalised us to Bosnia Ljubljana Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Lai ready, followed by Dr. Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honourable Minister, Ministers, Government, Ministries, Colleagues and Colleagues! After almost five hours, we came up with a word for discussion. I fear that the applicant thinks that the time spent explaining the interpretation is the one who decides on its weight and meaning. In fact, it reflects something else – it reflects the complete softness of the document you have prepared, and it does not have much in common with reality. It's practically everything you've mixed up in. I am pleased that I have also heard the answers of Minister Erjavac, who is very visual to you – I believe that you could understand – also show that many things are simply not known or misinterpreted. You're saying Minister Erjavec is cunning, I'd say you're transparent. If you think it is possible to collect political points in this way, then you are wrong, because I do not think that there will be any political profit for anyone from today's debate, not for the National Assembly, but even less for the candidates of this meeting, which is totally unnecessary and missed. I was also a little apart from Mr Horvat's initial presentation as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. It was not clear whether today's debate was going on in terms of non-trust to the government, to the Prime Minister or to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, given that you have brought down such a wide range of readings that simply do not go together and not all the powers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Minister Erjavac. When I think about it, all this nonsense, it still bothers me. Why? Why is that necessary? All right, political points, whether there is any frustration in the background, you don't survive the ambitions of the government, too. The polls have also been mentioned, including on your part, and I must say that here, Mr Horvat, you have also not convinced me that these polls do not play a very important role in your decisions to invest in interpretation. I must say that this document – I also read the interpretation with great interest. Based on all the insinuations, the obvious, this document does not belong in the National Assembly, it would be more likely to refer to a magazine, under the heading, but it is. But, well, today we're dealing with this document here. However, you have definitely exceeded my expectations, not so much in the number of perceptions and in the very obvious, but in the immeasurably poor reasoning, the immeasurably poor willingness, but not least now, I do not know whether this is ignorance or maliciousness, obviously also with a poor knowledge of the subject that we are talking about today, which I would not expect from you as chairman of the committee. This shows, in particular, one very great desire that today, as you might say, the minister should be nailed to the cross, but that is probably not how it works. Also, Mr Tonin's media outlet on the subject of weekends or controversial, miraculous recordings, which somehow happened to be in the media at that time, has shown at least a vivid imagination, perhaps some ability to create plots, misunderstandings, and I still believe in that, even though half a day has passed, that we have an interesting day ahead. In order to be beautiful, meteorologists have announced that he will be interesting, I believe you will be surprised by any new proposal or new conclusion. On the other hand, I am pleased, because I have not noticed anywhere in the interpellation that we might be able to see Minister Erjavac, what I know, global warming of the atmosphere or something like that. So I think there's hope. According to the content of the interpolation, you are no doubt a party with solutions. Just so they're a little easy. Since your solution is to replace Minister Erjavac and once again Slovenia will flourish, it will become a reputable country, economically strong, responsible, everyone will respect us, appreciate that I am not saying that foreign investors will start macho in coffins in Slovenia to walk and look for ways to invest in our economy. It could be said back home, I don't know, holy forgiveness or something. I also read with interest the magnetograms of the Foreign Policy Committee meetings. It is very interesting to hear exactly the views of the Chairman of the Committee on the Foreign Policy of Mr Horvath, as if I were not at these meetings, even though she is the President. You have mentioned that you are honored because Minister Erjavec mentioned you in cooperation, but you have never done anything for Slovenia that is irresponsible to harm the country. After all these discussions, I'm not so sure anymore. If you've ever heard of being responsible even if you're in a place, you don't do anything. In the face of all the obvious, what is wrong and wrong in the field of foreign policy, I would have protested in the chair of the committee a long time ago, maybe resigned from this place or long ago requested the Minister to leave. But you have tolerated, even praised, had good words, including recognition for the work of Minister Erjavac. Interesting. I would seriously consider, with all these measures, even in your place, if we don't listen to you, whether it still makes sense for you to lead this committee. Apparently, there's been a lot of disagreements. So that I will not be overly general in this debate, perhaps cynical or inconclusive, like interpolation, we may be going to some specific points. I believe that you too are clear, as has been said, that the foreign minister is not the only actor in foreign policy. Among the others, mentioned earlier today, you are no doubt the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The truth is whether foreign policy is catastrophic or good, in which Slovenia is turning, of course it is not black and white. Like life, it's not black and white, and the truth isn't black and white, but it's gray all the time. It's more than 50 shades, I can say. You must know. Maybe we'll go to some success that you've already admitted to the minister. In 17 years it was written for the first time a serious document, which may have been praised with compressed teeth, is the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which we adopted in the National Assembly. Then also the Foreign Policy Strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask you kindly, to claim six months after the adoption of these documents that someone is working contrary to such a policy is kind of uncreditable or unserious. Because at this time, except for the migrant crisis, which has employed and burdened even the government, all the representatives, all the departments, there has not been much else happening in the field of foreign policy, I think it is irresponsible. On the other hand, you quickly pointed out where your shoe was. This is Dr. Türk's candidacy, which has also been clearly explained to you what the matter is. That he himself proposed that the Government decide to support his candidacy and in this work also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the only right and only possible. It is also interesting to note that deep undervalued economic diplomacy is one of the priorities of Minister Karl Erjavac, including the results achieved in cooperation with his diplomats, by the way, by representatives from the world's representative offices. The reason that foreign investments are at the lowest level is seen in the non-responsible system of economic diplomacy, which is once again an extremely serious simplification, in which I believe that you, in the past, also wanted proposals to improve the economic business environment, that you do not believe in this either. That there are reasons why Slovenia is not interested in foreign investors and that they do not come to us, essentially elsewhere, and not in the economic diplomacy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here I am referring to the provision of a business environment, a bureaucratic obstacle, a lack of confidence in the rule of law, particularly the non-stimulating tax policy of the country and many more would be found. All of this reduces the market competitiveness of our country, not the weak economic diplomacy of Minister Erjavac. Because of such generalizations, your interpolation is completely uncreditable and meaningless. In the field of economic diplomacy, Minister Erjavec participates with key stakeholders and together defines priorities, priority markets, namely the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology, the SPIRIT Public Agency and the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and a number of other actors. More and more businesses are constantly turning to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to open doors abroad. They turn to them again because they are satisfied with what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing, not because they would be unhappy with them. And fortunately, of course, they think in a different way than you think, and see the advantages of economic diplomacy. Economic diplomacy cannot assume the role of business representative, but it can establish contacts, bridge various obstacles, facilitate access, inform, help find information and so on. Minister Erjavec organised numerous meetings with economists, potential foreign investors both at home and abroad. Unlike you, of course, the economists appreciate it. Believe me, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs presented his views and also his cooperation and made a deal with the Chamber of Economics, he received a round of applause, which, according to the criticisms you can read daily, is probably not the criticism of the government economy for many in this government. And I think that because they are satisfied, but not because they would not be able to express their opinion or feel that something in the field of economic diplomacy is not going well. Then I must say that I was surprised by your statement about the inadequate network of diplomatic-consular representations. Very interesting. But I think you remember, too, that you were in the government when the number of diplomatic-consular representations decreased during the worst crisis due to savings because there was no other way out. And I don't remember trying so hard to argue with that at the time. It is true, however, that by improving the situation, the network is expanding again, that economic advisers can again be more than they were when it was necessary to adapt to avoid infamous troikas. And you know that very well. And so once again, I think the arguments you're presenting are on very small feet. Above all, you can't report this to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because it's not just in his domain. These were the government's conclusions, a joint decision in which we were very much, once again, also your client, Nova Slovenija. I wouldn't discuss much of the relations that are also evident, with the United States, with the Soviet Union. As far as I am concerned, it is important that they are satisfied with these relations that they have been commended by the competent ambassadors, by former American Ambassador Mussomel or by the current Mr Brent Hartley, who clearly see the possibilities of cooperation, cooperate with Slovenia, are pleased and can say good luck, but of course this is not a coincidence, because there is a lot of work involved here, so that such cooperation takes place in an appropriate manner. You read to Minister Erjavac a number of other things you do not believe he is responsible for. It has already been mentioned, here is the South Stream, that we are not strategic partners of China, but even though we have sat with them, misunderstandings about transatlantic agreements with the United States of America, migration problems, even traffic flows across Slovenia and beyond. You cannot believe for yourself that one minister can be responsible for all of this, because, as it is said, the solution for Slovenia is really simple, but it is not. It's just that you've given the impressions on the principle of market work, defenses, that you're going to be happy, a little bit more salad, and you're going to be a permanent customer, and maybe you're going to visit her again. So, dear fellows, I think there will be plenty of debaters. Eyewitnesses are senseless, full of incompetence of meaningless instigations. And so do I, not because I would not respect the National Assembly, that we would spend one day here today in which we could have a better or make something more useful for all of us. Let there be one last suggestion, even though I know you won't take it into account, but I think you believe in yourself that it would make the most sense, but you don't have a way out. If we were to act blue, we'd withdraw the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, distinguished colleague Tomaž Gantar. I've always loved listening to you, and this time I've loved listening to you. You've turned the matter into an interpellation of Joseph Horvath. I'm honored, you know, I'm very honored, you spoke practically only to me, it's said 26 signatories is, but here, look at it, only Joseph Horvat today is probably the most frequently mentioned name. Moreover, because I know what the breakup will be, look, but I am as old as I am, I know what the breakup will be, the next step will be the weighting of the coalition, and on the other hand, Joseph Horvat as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy from opposition to New Slovenia. I am very honored and probably a historical case in the National Assembly, when the government or, more precisely, the Vice-President of the Government will request, I am leaving the coalition if you do not remove Horvath. That's how it's gonna go. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u48	Order, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u49	These are my projections, and I'm sure the President of the National Assembly agrees with them, but I don't want to, I'm sorry, I don't want to speak on his behalf. There was a lot of cynicism, but since, Mr. Tomaž, we're both politics, probably sometimes we use a certain dose of cynicism, you're here quite a bit, even a bit of schizophrenia because you said – why now, why didn't you wait before, how now? [[…]] Do I evaluate your debate with a handful of cynicism as an extremely rich contribution to the answers to Quo exercises Slovenian foreign policy? And I thank you for interpreting Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Lai has the floor to prepare Dr Milan Brglez, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u51	Madam President, thank you for your floor. A respected ministerial team, especially Minister Karl Erjavec. Look, this is the life in our Parliament, I'm just gonna start. In reviewing the entire material, I didn't find any valid reasons for your interpretation. These are my views, and I think I'm completely independent of you and not of your client, not of anyone else. It is true that this time, these 14 hours planned, could be spent more usefully. That's a fact, but maybe it's a good thing they open themselves up here and there, and there, there's gonna be some benefit from that. Finally, it is necessary to conclude who is responsible for foreign exchange savers, whether politically or possibly criminally. I think that there are institutions for this, which also accompany us, and we should act on an official duty. I think that we are not qualified enough to be able to make judgments regarding your responsibility, either personally or objectively. Slovenia is facing very big challenges, you can do a lot together with the rest of the government, including the Prime Minister of the Government, to deal rationally with this migration problem, which affects us every day, and we can expect worse every day. And I would like to, and in some way also invite you to maximize your attention to this issue, that we will be part of this matter as a whole society. As far as all other observations concerning the arbitration agreement are concerned. It is likely that you should not be proud of all the statements you may have made after the accident. But we know who's doing the wrong thing. If you were completely silent and inactive, you probably wouldn't be able to stick these readings to you as an extra label. But I'll get it over with. For the time being, I don't mean to be a wolf's tooth on this saw that cuts you, but if someone convinces me that there is actually a valid reason or evidence for your personal or any other responsibility, this tooth can change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dr Milan Brglez has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I imagined this intervention of my own as 13 thesis why interpretation cannot be supported. Of course, these 13 will be linked to the level at which the interpolation itself is written. So relatively abstract, not so concrete, although many would like more concrete things. The fact is, we must be aware that at a time when we are interpolating the foreign minister at any time, at any time, we are basically showing off our intestines. And the moment we show off our intestines very, very much, but we do have a very negative impact on what our diplomacy and foreign policy are even capable of doing. This is now the first and basic thing. We don't need diplomats here at all. But maybe an event could be one where we have diplomats to show what we're going to do to go public diplomacy or whatever. The moment we have interpellation, uh, fantastic, everything will come or a lot will come on the day that diplomats will take advantage of. I mean, a lot of this has got to work harder than that. But when such interpolation is, of course, something negative for the country, something negative for its foreign policy. In this position, I would insist, regardless of who was there. In this case, however, I do not think that anything at this time has happened that would justify interpolation and would not at the same time prejudice our foreign policy interest. To explain this, the first thesis, foreign policy and the integration of internal and external policy will be that classic issue. Usually everyone understands that the interior is external and ends there. But it's more complicated. We are not alone in an international environment to begin with. And if we are not alone, whatever we imagine here, yes, whether it will come true or not, it depends. It's a very thin line, and sometimes you have to find ways to convince others of what's good for you without bragging about it in any way. That's one of the answers to the Bildt thing that's biased. I know how biased that is. Because in every country someone does it. I used to be in the academic community, I know what that's like. If you are more or less critical of the whole matter, you are also trying to raise a rating in this foreign policy sphere in this way, if, of course, the state gives a certain importance to those experts who evaluate these things. But they're always national. But believe me, as the academic sphere is always very critical of foreign policy in general to politics, this is a very similar matter to the media. Find me Slovenian media that will stop, except for really small, tiny exceptions, at any time for what is actually the interest of the state. But this unification at this level of understanding that you need such unification is virtually never there. And then there's the third thing that's terribly important. In particular, in countries such as ours, foreign policy also has an impact on internal policy. It affects how, in fact, every single thing we do within the country also has an external policy component. This is all the more so when you are a member of certain international organisations, even more so when you are subject to international law, when you have to respect certain things both for yourself and for the sake of the Constitution. And with that, I'm pretty quick on the other thing. What happened in this mandate is somehow a complement to this foreign triangle. I say three things to this foreign policy triangle: the values that we have set out in the Constitution and are also important for foreign policy; the declarations where the two actors who are now on different shores have worked together, fortunately, and were accepted in the National Assembly with more than a constitutional majority, but the importance of the constitutional majority is only – if not adopted, would be a real failure because it was adopted, I think success is in terms of at least defining what foreign policy actors should be. And I expected us to start this year with a debate on foreign policy, the first plenary debate, not the interpretation. As a result of this interpolation, this foreign policy debate must wait; it cannot be one and the other at the same meeting. And I hope, absolutely, when this debate is about not to turn into any repetition of interpolation, because we are going to do this mass today, because the opposition or anyone else is the opposition, but in principle whoever collects 10 Members' signatures, has the right to interpolation, just according to our constitution. So the matter is settled and there is no big choice here. The third thing we need to take into account – this may be the third thesis, we need to understand what kind of country we are, the two usually define, and this also identifies what we can do in foreign policy. On the one hand, we're a small country. Mala means that we have a role to play in the international community. The expectations of others are linked, so we play the role of a small country. At the same time, we are small in physical and every other sense. And our power, as far as it is, is not in relative power to push someone, it appears more through the rules that exist, we talk about the so-called structural power or power when we are part of certain alliances and we have up to thirds of them we can have a certain power. If these alliances, even if they look supernational, are weak in the external political sense of the word, then something essential does not help us and we have to worry about ourselves again in some way. However, at least in relation to the European Union, we need to understand one important issue, such as when we come to the fields of economic diplomacy, that this economic diplomacy is something that each country has to do for itself. Because we're competing with each other. However, the institutions of the European Union are by definition no longer, unfortunately, sometimes we believed that they were small but by definition not small. What is happening now, these power relations within the European Union are convincing us that they are not allies and that small and peripheral countries need to be put on the brink. The only such point where we are on the edge and where this is clearly seen, although many will not admit it, is actually the point that is called – and this is one of the assumptions that I have – that the conduct of foreign policy during the migration and refugee crisis was optimal, according to my assessment. I wouldn't know better myself. I don't know what else to do. At the same time, on the other hand, understanding what we can do. What means do we have in foreign policy? Will these be economic assets, our own? Will these be our military capabilities? Some other big ones can also use this in foreign policy, we cannot do that. We can, in fact, use this more at a symbolic level than at actual level, even though it is right to take care of it and eventually remain a diplomacy, in which we are very clear, that we are no longer involved in the modern concept. The coordinating role is envisaged for us in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and in this way also for its commander, i.e. the Minister, but there are many actors, especially at the level of the European Union, because many things have such a different dimension, they are involved in foreign policy and the diplomatic end of the day can help the parliaments themselves sometimes more, sometimes less, but in fact it is very difficult to say, yes, but now only the foreign ministry is responsible for foreign policy. In fact, the ministry has carried out this matter, and it can be responsible for how much diplomacy actually works. But here we have to admit, we are 25 years old, and the minister has inherited a certain heritage. This heritage is not something he would create, and it must manage and change, as far as possible, optimize as much as possible. The next thing that matters is that the Foreign Ministry is a state-owned ministry. It's not like it's been said without a relationship. And if we are aware of this role of foreign policy and of the ministry, which coordinates it, if we understand it correctly, then we know that our previous foreign policy action also determines what we can do now. On the other hand, what is done on behalf of the State is done by the Foreign Ministry, in relation to individual countries through ambassadors, the Minister himself is a representative of the State. Interpellation is therefore directed at one of our representatives of the country, who represents this country without any restrictions, similar to the President of the country and similar to the Prime Minister. Whether to list this customary right or to go look at the Vienna Convention and the law of international treaties, you will find it in there. It is unwise to dismiss this issue in a time of crisis that has a distinctive international dimension. Not only that, at the point of arbitration, one could add that giving legitimacy to Croatian non-cooperation with the arbitral tribunal, which can somehow be derived from the debate of the opposition, acting in the interest of another country. This is not in the interest of another country. We're in conflict with another country. And any opening of cards, what happens then, whether we've already considered how we're going to implement this, how we're going to force them. Yeah, come on, in foreign policy, you're not gonna call your opponent what you're gonna do. This is also why such debates are infertile and here, in my view, the inefficient accumulation of internal policy points at the expense of foreign policy interests. In order for a country such as Slovenia to be established in an international space, it must be innovated, so it must find innovative solutions where they are. In no way would I define this as improvisation. That's not improvisation. The point is to convince others to work in their own interests, and in fact, you benefit from it. Normally, if some interest is only the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, it will not, I will say, lead to the fact that this matter is actually being realized. But others have to be sure, too. And I think that the ministry is successful in this regard, our government is successful, the minister is successful, and I have nothing here, and I don't want to criticize it in any way. I have a few more comments with regard to what has been said today. One of the things that needs to be realized in international integration and in other matters is that there is nothing natural in the social world in that sense, okay, this alliance is so that we do not need to be within it or anything else, but that for each of these alliances it is necessary to think through the interests of this country, how to optimize the interest of this country, its inhabitants. However, when we use the word natural in this political sense of the word, we are very close to demagogism or in pure ideology. Usually no one will want to admit it, but in fact, in foreign policy, while we usually have more of this, in terms of, okay, one is focused, now it shows this through this interpolation, they should be more centrally oriented and less Western Balkan. This dilemma is essentially irrelevant. Within both areas, we need to ensure maximum interest, but both areas can become very dangerous if the European Union collapses if it starts to fall apart. In this case, I do not want to be in Eastern Europe under any circumstances. And in any case, I would like to be in Western Europe, which was also a sort of self-sustaining position on any issue that has been raised at all European level in this country, both within security structures and within more classical foreign policy structures. I'd like to add one more thing. Actually, I'm not saying that foreign policy doesn't deserve criticism. I think he deserves it. But of course a criticism based on knowledge. Regrettably, often this criticism is accompanied by utopian solutions and very quick solutions that could be even more harmful than careful search for manoeuvre, which is also foreign policy, and in this regard I think that both the foreign ministry and the government as a whole are quite successful in this mandate. That's part of the story. The second part of the story is that we realistically agree that we are also responsible for what is happening in the world. But jumping out for principled reasons, say, yeah, that's exactly how we have to do this, if you get them at that moment in your head, it's going to be in a crisis situation like the present, much smarter for those things that are really connected to your immediate existence than anything else. Why am I saying this? Because, at this moment, the successful conduct of foreign policy is also a matter of the survival of this country. For this reason, I think that interpretation ultimately has much to say about writings and their understanding of the importance and role of foreign policy, as well as the lack of understanding of how internal political disagreements are detrimental to foreign policy interests. How we must support all that we are trying to achieve in foreign policy also by not addressing some internal conflicts, not playing with the emotions of our people, but by trying to explain to them where, for example, in this migrant and refugee crisis problems are coming, why this is happening, we can also, how much we are actually responsible, because we are part of this world, we ourselves cannot do much more, but we can, in fact, if we are smart, limit, I will say, the harmful consequences that this crisis could have for this country and for these citizens when these feelings get too heated. And in the end, this is a matter of really political opinion, I will paraphrase something that has already been said by the opposition Members. I say, and this is the thesis that the opposition, which so attacks representatives of its own country between conflicts and situations, is a United Nations vocabulary that includes all conflicts, and now we are in such conflicts and crises, is more dangerous to the country than what you claim to be a threat to the Foreign Minister. So I certainly don't want to support this interpolation and I can't find any professional reasons why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I have to respond. I thank the President of the National Assembly and the eminent member of the Committee on Foreign Policy for his contribution in finding answers to the question of Guo Vadis Slovenian foreign policy. This was the direction of the debate. However, I take this opportunity when the President of the National Assembly is with us, because the last time you and the leader of the largest parliamentary group warned me that if anything was wrong with the PSC-Government, or the Ministry, that I had to pass this on to the President of the National Assembly. And so I'm gonna take this opportunity. You know, when we talked to the College about the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not respond to the Foreign Policy Committee's decision to prepare material for the guidelines of the EU's global strategy, but the Ministry of Defence did, but this matter is closed to me. There is another matter, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Because we are talking in this interpretation that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not implement the Foreign Policy Committee's conclusions. What am I supposed to do now? Yeah, well, maybe it's best that you intercede with me because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doesn't listen to the National Assembly that set it up. In view of the 27th meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy on 3 July last year, we decided to ask the Government to prepare information on the possibility of notifying the succession of an independent and democratic Austria, the so-called ADP, and to inform the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Commission on Relations with Slovenians, in place and around the world, of the presence of Mr Ivan Hršak here. In each mandate, colleagues and colleagues, we had one joint meeting, where this issue was on the agenda. Now a number of initiatives have been addressed to the President of the National Assembly and to me, as well as to Minister Erjavac, to go to the notification. Today I do not want to discuss whether we are in favour or not, the Minister knows about my position, which is exactly the same to him, but the problem is in the process. The Ministry hasn't done anything for more than six months. Yeah, what do we do now? That's why I'm sorry that the president of the National Assembly escaped. I'm just doing my homework, the homework I got at the last college. But now I see he's not listening. Yeah, who do you want me to tell?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Get Mrs. Ksenija Root Kramar ready for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u57	Vice President, thank you for your word, nice greeting to all of us who are in the hall. Well, I would say this, better than never, honourable interpellationers, I suggest to you, I have not examined this, whether it is possible for this interpretation to be interrupted and for us to begin in the National Assembly to do something significantly more useful. You prepared your interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs from last autumn until this year. I must say, in the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners, we were expecting a good document, which has certain reasons. Unfortunately, we did get a document that's inside the hotel, and it's not actually out there. I'm sure with this interpellation, dear fellows of Christian democracy, you'll lose a lot. Maybe you've got one thing coming up, that's two seats in the front row of the National Assembly. I have to tell you that after the opening presentation, an additional explanation from the SDS representative got the feeling that they just left you in the clearing. I must say that this kind of kindness is said very funny and also sad that it was done by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly, who has never criticized the work of the Ministry, who has never criticized the work of the Minister. I must say, dear colleague Joseph Horvat, I know that you wanted to become Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy immensely. We have also made this possible for you in our parliamentary group in some way, because we have proposed to the coalition that we leave this city to the opposition and that New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – receive it. Given that I am sure that this interpolation will not succeed, I suggest that you consider leaving the post of President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, since you have not in some way done what you have also been in charge of or for which you are partly being paid. However, if you report to the Minister that he is leading the foreign policy on his head, then I must answer you that the actual ministry here is the one that, within the power of the Government, is pursuing foreign policy and that the orientations to what we have already heard on several occasions today also give the home working body of the National Assembly or the National Assembly, and that this home committee of the National Assembly, respected colleague Horvat, is presided over by you. The Declaration, which was one of the most important documents adopted in the field of foreign policy in the National Assembly last July, was not adopted in the National Assembly for 17 years. You have proposed, accepted, prepared, a lot of positive assessments on your part have been given, a positive assessment and thanks have also been given to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, while I also appreciate that this has also been a compliment to the Minister, who considers this to be the achievement of last year in the field of foreign policy. And that's right. You were talking about human resources policy violations. There is quite a bit of foreign policy orientation in this document on the broad and general record. One of these guidelines was, the Minister also replied to you if you would like to reach a broader consensus, but the proposed candidate for the Secretary of the United Nations was not proposed by the Republic of Slovenia, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has only given its consent. Around clientelelist recruitment within the Ministry, in particular ambassadors and consulates, I should say that the Committee on Foreign Policy is one of those who gives your own opinion, but this opinion is also very important. The minister explained the whole process as to how human resources policy is managed within the ministry. I think that this direction of management of human resources policy has set a good footing and that there is a great deal of room here for democratic decision, who will also be put in a diplomatic position. Well, given that you referred to Dr Dimitri Rupl, the longtime foreign minister who had to leave Trieste because of Zujf, he would also tell you that at the time the biggest government party was, is known, and that during the time of the biggest party was accepted by Zujf. Of course, Dr. Dimitri Rupel was very offended later because he had to leave Trieste in line with Zuyph. And Mr Rupl's assessment that the current President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is recruiting for leadership positions without the necessary professional qualifications and without political merit, but with political enthusiasm and party commitment. This statement is made by a person who, in order to maintain the situation, has replaced as many customers as possible. Maybe I'll get that information from you later. To report to the Minister of Foreign Affairs that he is politically employed or employed, I would like to ask you how many State Secretaries at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are already held by the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Does the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have one? He's gone. The minister could bring five or six people to the Ministry on trust. How many did he bring? Only two, if you want your last name and Sekuti Ekmetich. And ask yourself how many people brought in when they took over the functions of various ministries. The notion that the minister respects only those who are and put them away in the connoisseurs who are loyal to him. Tell me, Mr. President, that you would not do the same. Would you prefer to have in certain positions, places of employment, people who will constantly set your feet? You really can't tell him that, because that's probably what you'd do. Around the Kojič case, Vivod was already told a lot. However, I must also say that the inspection has been carried out by a competent inspection and that this inspection has not established illegal conduct. And maybe there's something about the arbitration itself. You're mentioning that the Minister is not smart and that he makes reckless statements. And I'm not going to quote a statement about Velenje TV, I'm just going to say a few words that he said, that it's informal, that these are some feelings and that we have a good lawyer group and that we have some optimism from this. Now tell me, Your Honor, whether he said something wrong here, but he didn't just tell me some of the basics. If this did not correspond to some outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, this means that you care for those who were concerned abroad. On the other hand, you tell Mr Erjavac to cooperate with Croatia. In this case, I understand that you are concerned about this issue abroad. And maybe there's something else about the appointment of Dr. Jerne Sekolec's arbitrator. Look, the President of the Republic has chosen the candidate for arbitration. Of course, with most of the votes sent. The government and the Council of Justice gave their opinion on this. It was appointed in 2011. Why am I saying this? To make it easier for you to understand that in 2011 it wasn't this man sitting here today and being intertwined, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but it was someone else. And someone else suggested it. If we wanted to give someone some responsibility, we could say that the National Assembly was responsible for making a mistake because it did not respect those basic security measures that should be respected. Mag. Simona Drenik was appointed in 2010. The ones you were already in this house, in this National Assembly, you remember who was the Foreign Minister back then. Karl Viktor Erjavec certainly wasn't. I would like to say more about the International Institute for Middle East and Balkan Studies in Ljubljana, which published the article Milanović's secret plan for compromising arbitration. I provide the data below from the website of this Institute. And this was published on the 15th. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I quote. "A statement by Zoran Milanović that Dragan Lozančić, director of the Croatian Security and Intelligence Agency, deserves the highest national award due to some of his achievements, which only he, Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, President of the Republic of Croatia and several others, has not received special attention in Slovenia. In Croatia, however, printed electronic media cited the heroic work for which Lozančić should be awarded a state award for receiving the phone calls of Jerne Sekolec and Simone Drenik. The whole story concerning the director of this institution was aroused when the president of the Republic of Croatia, Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, demanded the resignation of the director of the agency for alleged violation of the law because he did not notify that he was communicating with the person who was listening to the Croatian prosecution or intelligence agency. Milanović then entered Lozančić's defence and made a completely inappropriate and harmful statement to protect Croatian national interests. How could this have happened that the telephone conversations of senior Slovenian officials were recorded and ended up in the hands of Croatian intelligence officers?" I'm finishing up this institute's statements. Where was our security or counterintelligence then to cover Drennikov and Sekolec? Earlier, the minister had already said that they had put through all the procedures necessary for education for such an important security function. Of course, the service would thus cover the interests of our country, Slovenia is said. Why do I state the way or procedures for the appointment of Sekolec and Drennikov and Milanović's plan to compromise arbitration? Therefore, honourable motioners, because you have chosen the wrong person to interpret it. Those who have participated in the appointment process or have made decisions and those who have not done their compulsory task, but not Mr Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs, should be held accountable. The confession of Palestine. It's a very interesting area. It seems strange to me that you supported New Slovenia's statements regarding the recognition of Palestine in the SDS. Your position on this issue is significantly different from that of the interpretation. It is a very important matter and it has been agreed that representatives of the Knesset, the Committee on Foreign and Security Policy of the State of Israel meet with our representatives of the Committee on Foreign Policy to exchange views in this area and to make their views known to the Israelis. Why this meeting has not yet taken place, I ask you as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. And there's something very important. On 19 February, we had the 52nd meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, where we considered the proposal of the United Left to include in the work plan of the National Assembly for March and April the recognition of the state of Palestine. I now ask the representatives of New Slovenia why you did not vote in favour of the proposal of the United Left. Neither have they voted in favour of this proposal in the SDS. On the other hand, you're reading that the minister is blocking this thing. If I am well aware of the position of Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mr Erjavac and also of the entire Group of Members, I must tell you that we are in the Group of Members, as I have already mentioned, for Palestine to be recognised as an independent state at a time when this will be politically the wisest. Now some of those personal eyes. Dear colleague Matthew Tonin, I have had a very high assessment of you, but with these statements that you made at the time of the interpolation, and so far, I must say that you surprised me and that you did not respect the eighth commandment of God that you should not give false testimony. Since you are a Christian Democrat, I would expect you to observe this eighth commandment of God. That is how I think about how Karl Erjavec bought the weekend, as well as the fact that Erjavec does not work for the interests of the Republic of Croatia, but works for the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Yeah, at the end of the day, I expect you to try some maneuvers and say that in the back of the closed session, but believe me, you're not gonna pull a fat end here. And you know what I'd respect, respectable colleague Tonin? Nice and right, Mr Tonin listens to me, I believe he listens to me, and I hope that there will be something useful in these statements that you are still acting as a junior colleague to an older fellow minister or a Member to respect this age difference. Sometimes this is very ugly and I would recommend that you turn this form of rhetoric into a future form. There may be some pain here, but this pain may be later, not right now. To conclude, I will quote the Utankar Mountain, which is on Sunday 31. On the 1st of this year, he wrote: "But these attacks on Teflon Karl are probably significantly too weak, he explained the story with the weekend because he proved that he bought it before it happened or even started. Interpellation is empty, and it doesn't even show why I should leave. However, the video is a storm in a glass of water, but politicians say many things and, above all, in politics, the word is not a horse, so that I cannot take it back. Erjavec is an experienced politician and is also much better in populism than the sad remnant of the Christian-democratic human option in Slovenia." He told you everything with this, just like I did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I thank the very valuable cousin from Pomurje, from Prlecia, for his discussion. I've trained a lot of people in mathematics, physics. And when it came to more difficult matters, such as foreign policy, for example, and integrated or draining, it had to be repeated many times. Now, of course, I will not repeat Palestine now, because it is a shame for me to waste the time to explain it again, Mr Jurša, but I will send it to the magnetogram, perhaps tomorrow, if you like, Mr Jurša, I will read it aloud. I've read the conclusions. Of course, the minister still has not explained why such schizophrenic information is from his house. Today it is not possible, Mr Jurša, you do not understand, you absolutely do not understand, it is not going at all, we have not yet spoken and decided whether to admit Palestine or not to admit it. It doesn't matter now. What matters is the procedure that your President Desus and I have coordinated in his house. I went to him and I said, "Look, Minister, we have to get this thing right." How's that supposed to work? So the Government proposes a decision to the National Assembly. I don't know what else to say about Palestine. But I still don't have the answer, as I say. When this affair happened last year because they called me, five times, six times I got in my car on vacation and went to Ljubljana. You know, we have 200 kilometers in one direction. I don't know why they didn't call you. The media didn't care about your opinion, but I was asked to come, and I told the Minister to "hold the line". You understand what that means, "keep the stall." I don't need any thanks at the time, I actually acted like I'm putting Slovenia at the forefront, so I've been "fassing" on my head, you know why I'm hanging out with the minister. That we're separate branches of government. Of course we are. We wanted to demonstrate to Croatia that we were together. And to this he also called us, remember very quickly when this affair arose, the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Janez Janša. As far as you're concerned, it's the manpower or the listening. Come on then, Jurša, tell us everything, and tell them you've put a letter in the basket of the permanent arbitration court. You don't say a word about that. "The Tribunal is a series of consider." Is that just the way it is? Is that nothing? It's me. I'm sorry. We're just different people. Staffing. I will not repeat how the procedure, article 17a of the Law on Foreign Affairs, is proceeding and what the role of the Committee on Foreign Policy is. In addition, the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Policy is not binding. Do you understand that? I guess it is. As far as human resources policy is concerned. Internal sources from the MZZ, of course we do, too. You probably have more, thank God, and here the internal source calls the case thirty. I didn't immediately understand what was going on. I don't know if that's true, but today is an opportunity for the minister or you to explain this matter to the Slovenian public. In the summer of 2014, this was the time before the elections, Minister Erjavec ordered a mass contract of 32, for an indefinite period, without the implementation of statutory mandatory public competitions, although the prohibition of public administration employment and the reduction of wages should apply. The minister should be asked who these thirty chosen ones are, especially since four people were fired by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a long time ago in order for him to be able to employ his staff from Desus. Political trade and profit with Erjavec are, in effect, borderless." It's an internal source. Could be a lie, I'll buy whatever the Minister of Erjavac's explanation is. But this is reported to us by internal sources, and these human resources cases are still quite something. For now, be one.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u61	I'll be very brief. My colleague Horvath, given that you've been saying that I haven't touched some things. It is logical that I did not, there are 11 Members in our Group of Members, and I think it is right for others to say something.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Outside Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. I will reply, President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, even though we might ask that question, given that we have a lot of contacts. About the 30 we hired for an indefinite period of time. This is about young people who participated in the first half of 2008 in the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. And these people have been dragged away for a period of time until the Supreme Court's judgment has come, which has imposed in a specific case that we have to hire that particular person because it is an incorrect interpretation of the Labour Relations Act. On the basis of this judgment, I decided that all persons who had been employed for so many years and were unable to create families could not have been hired credits – employment for an indefinite period of time. Now I don't know what you're doing with some scary subterfuge stories from inside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, number 30 people. What did you say? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, that Desus, please tell me. Look, two people are from Desus and have been employed before in the state administration, and they've only been reassigned from one ministry to another. Look, we don't have diplomats in Desus, we don't even have diplomats who are retired. I don't know what you're talking about. But since you don't have any concrete arguments for interpolation, you do. I must say that I am sad that such a party, New Slovenia, who should be checking, telling the truth, "saying she," number 30 illegally probably hired, all these young people are probably from Desus, Dr Dimitrij Rupel took them from Desus and hired them, tell me that. Look, all we did was respect the Supreme Court's decision. I must say that all human resources cases have been repeatedly checked by the Court of Auditors, even the Anti-Corruption Commission, even inspections by the Ministry of Public Administration – there is no irregularity. If they found any flaws, we solved them. That's why I don't understand this third point of interpolation, political recruitment. And you minimize your role as the Foreign Policy Committee, if we have nothing to do with ambassadors, it may even be from the Udba, but we have nothing to do with it. That's not true. Believe me, if anyone was from the Udba, he'd have fallen as a candidate earlier, he'd be a media lynch. We have also experienced that some have been wrongly convicted of cooperating with the Russians. This was evident to one ambassador because there is an internal conflict between diplomats, who will occupy a city. And it's easier to trap him if you discredit your colleague. Palestine. I'm just asking you, what about the invitation to the Israeli Parliamentary Foreign Policy Committee to Knesset? You can answer me if you get any answers. Because as long as we don't know, we can't proceed with the procedure if the content isn't disputed. Because at the time, the Foreign Policy Committee agreed to invite them and to present their views. Tell me the reasons why they're not coming. Or should the Foreign Policy Committee's decision be amended not to have this visit, this discussion will not be and will continue in the procedure. So I think we're fighting over some lame thing here. Tell me today whether the Israeli Parliament's Foreign Policy Committee will come. If he comes, we'll wait, if he doesn't come, it's clear what needs to be done. We are making this one big parliamentary story, we are convening an interpeel session of the National Assembly, I am listening to the obvious that I am cooperating with the Croatian side. I don't know. And in fact, as Ambassador Jurša has already said, some could be respectful at least of those we have been working here for some time to make citizens feel better. When I attended this National Assembly, some of you who gave me the most difficult impressions were underage, had to ask your father or parents if you could go out after 10 o'clock. Now I'm listening here to cooperate with the Croatian Secret Service. I'm supposed to have some black funds and they're pushing me. I'm hoping that this evidence will come out one day because it's a very serious obvious thing. Voluntary cooperation, forced cooperation with Croatia. Then I am criticized if I say Carl Bildt is a friend of Croatia because he has a holiday house there and I know these things very well. If you were really a member of the Croatian Secret Service, Carl Bildt might be my best friend, maybe we could have a weekend together. Maybe it's that inherited weekend I'm getting. Look, let's get this straight about the inherited weekend, I'll give you New Slovenia, just show me where it is, we'll write it, and it'll be yours. You can have spiritual exercises there. Look, more insults than my cooperation with the Croatian Secret Service. A greater insult that through black funds my family would have a weekend in 2003, when I was not a politician at all, at least not a minister. And you're insulting me! You who wrote a very bad interpolation and started attacking my family's private sphere on the same day! Recordings — I probably put this out for myself after a year and a half. I look forward to the illegal recording of this procedure, and I hope that the police will find out with ease whose voices are on that video, given that we have some specifics. That'll be an interesting story. But I'm afraid she'll probably be disentangled in a few months. As far as I am concerned, look, I am sure that Slovenian foreign policy is good, that we have excellent diplomats, that it is balanced, that it is not pro-American or pro-American. But we are a small country, as Professor Brglez said. We must strive everywhere to gain certain advantages, benefits. When it comes to the Western Balkans, economic cooperation, stability in the Western Balkans, that is our interest. When it comes to Central Europe, Luka Koper becomes the door to Central Europe, to Slovakia, to the Czech Republic, to Poland, Hungary. When it comes to our shore to exploit this Mediterranean dimension, because we are also a Mediterranean country. When it comes to big ones like the United States, the Russian Federation, see how the news immediately echoes, maybe the relations between the United States and the Russian Federation will warm up. Which suggests that we, as a small country, need to be very pragmatic here. I don't know what I'd say to you in New City if you were to follow a policy that some of you are advocating that you absolutely have to break relations with the Russian Federation, that if a Russian chapel comes to the High Representative, that this is the blackest thing that can happen in foreign policy. Look, we have a traditional friendship, we have economic interests and other interests. It's the same with the United States. I've met several times with Secretary of State John Kerry, on the verge of having regular talks about Ukraine, about the Western Balkans. Hillary Clinton and I, when she was Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had a half-bilateral in Brussels. Some people tell me I haven't been to the United States of America. I go practically every year. If not, we have a United Nations General Assembly, where we have to hold 25 bilateral meetings within three days and 7 to 8 performances. It's not tourism. It's not like anyone thinks it's tourism. As far as Slovenian foreign policy is concerned, I think it is balanced that this interpolation is criminal, but it is not even a matter of presenting here weaknesses regarding the work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the more we clear up, the more we see that things are going well, that diplomatic controls are being carried out, that there is no political recruitment. About the wrong politics. I don't see it. I see one smart, pragmatic, balanced foreign policy. But I see today mainly as an attack on the Minister for Foreign Affairs, including on President Desus. That's because there's obviously some fear in some people. Interestingly, just after that referendum, Mr Aleš Primc announced the creation of a new party, and we know what the polls show if he set up a client. But the nervousness was abnormal. Look at the way they sound, all-respected viewers. Look at this nervousness. Here, look how nervous they are. I wish Mr Aleš Primac great luck in setting up a new party, and you will be able to bear this tablely.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you for the explanation that you should have written in response for that thirty. Members receive hundreds of questions sent, and that was one of them. You say everything, just not what we ask you. For God's sake, explain about Palestine why you stopped the meeting at the Government on 2 July and in September on the Foreign Policy Committee on your ambassador's wish, you're her boss, Mrs Suhadolnik, who said Knesset wanted to come to Slovenia. We've reached a conclusion with the help of a coalition. Don't you know there's a majority of coalitions in the P.O.P.? Now I'm telling you, he's got it. And on the basis of this conclusion, we wrote an invitation and sent it to Knesset on 22 September. I've said all that before. The invitation is September 17th. Now you're asking me if Knesset is coming. Now, wouldn't you like to ask the new ambassador you're the boss to find out what's going on? And don't tell me, don't have me here as a fool that you broke up the Palestinian Authority on July 2nd to see what the response to the September invitation was going to be. Mr. Minister, get in line a little bit as far as the timeline is concerned. And do not deceive the Slovenian public, and Mr Jurša here wants an answer. Please state clearly why you stopped the discussion on the recognition of Palestine in the Government on 2 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u67	Well, Minister, it was a little bit of a thank you, at least, given what I was saying, how good Slovenian foreign policy is. But there's no evidence here. I mentioned earlier that it does not only matter what you think of yourself and your foreign policy – I have you here as one of the main actors, which is why I say so – but what others think of us. And others don't think as well of us as you think. So there's some kind of a breakthrough here. For this reason, I would, of course, ask that, in the light of the analysis, this last analysis made by the European Council on Foreign Relations, I have also presented to you some of the points from it, but what do you say about how good foreign policy is when you talk about how good foreign policy is. And not only about this, but also about what I also stressed that this foreign policy has focused on countries, and you have also mentioned some of them, where they do not have such developed democratic systems as in countries where democracy has long formed a system of social relations. You mentioned Turkmenistan, Belarus and so on, that there is actually a focus on Slovenian foreign policy. However, the Honourable Minister, not at the expense of the European Union and NATO. I told you where the basics of Slovenian foreign policy are, where the foundations are. And these are that we have become an active member of the European Union and NATO. Of course, I appreciate that Slovenian foreign policy is pragmatic or at least wants to be pragmatic, but I'm afraid that's not the case. If I were pragmatic, we would no longer be asking about transport connections, at least not rail transport connections. And it would not be the main strategic goal of connecting the fifth and tenth corridors, from Kopra to Lendava and then from Jesenic to Zagreb. But it would have been done by now. Here, foreign policy and Slovenian diplomacy could play a decisive role, but it does not. Either she doesn't have it or she doesn't know how to have it or she doesn't want it. I don't really know. For the railway connection and also Kopra contact with a more favourable and faster connection with the interior of the country has been going on for too long. And again, it's one of the goals. Look, the answers, the honourable Minister, to these questions, to what Europe says about us, there is no question. Except to say that Mr. Bild is a friend of Croatia. But for the first time, I have said that this is not diplomatic and that it is not in Slovenia's interest to speak in such an underestimating way about a European diplomat, regardless of how you feel about him, personal or any other relationship. This is not in favour of Slovenia. I don't defend anyone, I don't know this gentleman after all, I just know that he runs the European Council for External Relations or at least he's under it. Here, I'm sorry, there are no relevant answers to this. When talking about economic cooperation, look at the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Taiwan. Taiwan was one of the greats today in Asia. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not even support certain relations at the level of the National Assembly, which would be completely friendly, non-binding for any country. However, China is also traded through Taiwan. And given that China and Taiwan have warmed their relations, after all the presidents of both countries have met, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is here on the trenches of the 1990 or 1991 agreement we have here with China and does not promote economic and economic relations in this direction. Economic and economic relations also mean more than one-way exports; they also mean attracting investors to Slovenia. Sorry, that's not it. On this basis, Slovenia is one of the last to invest on the basis of these criteria. I'm not saying it's just a matter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, with its economic, economic attachés, it has one of the leading roles. There are no answers here to how to increase efficiency, how something would change. All of these are objectives in the strategy, but these objectives are actually unfulfilled. Also on the question of whether we are in a crisis situation today or not and whether it is appropriate to have an interpretation and so on, and so on, I have been hearing for almost a year and a half that we are not in a crisis situation. Are we back? At least not in economic, economic, financial and so on. I don't know what we're in today. Migrating, yes. If we are in this migration crisis, then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a left-wing share of this responsibility. Certainly in connection with Schengen, in connection with the Dublin Declaration and so on. We've talked about this before. I will not repeat myself here, but there are no answers to these questions. This makes it difficult for us to talk today about having a good foreign policy in Slovenia, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says. It would also be good here to be even better, at least a little critical distance to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Be my guest, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u69	Dear Vice President, I have deliberately waited for you to establish the same standards for everyone and you are not. When you were conducting the session, when I was concluding my position, you warned me that it was supposed to be a grave, too harsh and that I mentioned some names. When your group leader and your president, Minister of Foreign Affairs Karl Erjavec, mourned us for long and long, you did not intervene with one intervention. It would be fair to be equal to everyone. There, Comrade Jurša can give us a bit of a hard time with the young, with the uneducated, Minister Erjavec sends us to spiritual exercises and so on. If Desus is such a clean and simple customer, should Minister Erjavec answer only one question: do you have any convicted MP today? It's a very simple question. Let Minister Erjavec answer that. And the other thing about the weekend he bought it. From the Croatian cadastral, I'll read to you, he says, you know what he says: Received 23. 5. 2005. So much for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Ms. Ksenija Rootjak Kramar has the word to prepare the mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u71	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Presents, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! It is not only the Minister who is responsible for the design and implementation of foreign policy. Its design and implementation is carried out within the government, on the basis of the guidelines of the National Assembly. I am very sad that some colleagues today are asking themselves and looking for an answer to the question of where Slovenian foreign policy is going. And if we ask ourselves about this question, how do we guide — well, by the way, with the minister, we know where he is going and where he is. The key achievements in the field of foreign policy that have taken place in this mandate include the adoption of two key documents, which are among the main actions in the field of foreign policy. Last July, the National Assembly adopted the Declaration on Foreign Policy and then the Government on the basis of its Foreign Policy Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, we recall that a declaration with broad political and professional consensus was adopted after 17 years by the National Assembly after repeated failed attempts in past mandates. Both documents clearly set the key priorities of Slovenia in the foreign policy field by 2020. And this also provides a framework for decision-making and position-taking on the ICZ. In doing so, the priorities of the ICZ are fully in line with the content of the Foreign Policy Declaration, which, by the way, everyone who is ardently advocating interpolation today has praised and even talked about it that it is good and absolutely necessary, which we do not doubt at all, and with a strategic document, a strategy adopted by the Government. Slovenian foreign policy is adapting to changing situations in the international community and is also constantly dealing with priority areas and areas. It also responds actively to the diversity of external space and content, all in the spirit of the application and representation of Slovenian views and interests. At European Union level, the Republic of Slovenia is closely linked to the Member States and is always involved in discussions, responses and identifies the proposals of the European Commission and other institutions, and takes the initiative in the event of a refugee crisis and problems. As an important success of Slovenia on the external political floor, it is considered to have been elected for the second time as a member of the UN Human Rights Council. This success means recognition of Slovenia, recognition of its diplomacy as well as its long-term engagement and positive contribution to the protection and enforcement of human rights in the world. It is a success that Slovenia has been elected as a member of the Unesca Executive Committee for the period until 2019 and is also a member of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Slovenia shall chair the UN General Assembly Committee in the field of economy and finance by September 2016 and also the Global High Panel on Water and Peace from November 2015. Slovenia is active with its diplomacy in relation to NATO and the Council of Europe, where it has actively participated in the preparation of the Comprehensive Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. In the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the protagonists of the European Day for the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and the initiative for the establishment of the Western Balkan Counter-Terrorism Initiative. If this is not the success of our diplomacy, this government and this ministry certainly are. Today's interpolation is not well prepared. Many of the findings are neither concrete nor reasoned. On the contrary, there are many political assessments, opinions, and judgments. As Slovenian foreign policy needs unity, it needs a state-of-the-art stance and, above all, a focus on priorities and objectives within these. It must continue to be and remain proactive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! Today we are witnessing another opposition reception aimed at discrediting the government's team. On the menu or, if you prefer, on the grill is the foreign minister, and for attachment the proposer offers evidence of flatness and unreasonableness. The facts show something else. The activities and achievements of Slovenian foreign policy are noticeable, its characteristics are reflected in words that are exactly contrary to the perceptions of interpretation, activity, credibility, solidarity, trust, constructiveness. It is clear to anyone interested in international relations and politics that there is nothing wrong with the management of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Especially if you are objective and consider the extremely difficult international situation. In my debate, I will focus on the three points. Firstly, under the coalition agreement, we have adopted two key foreign policy instruments. Secondly, cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Assembly is excellent. And thirdly, the active promotion of the foreign policy aspect of solving the migration problem. On the basis of the commitments under the coalition agreement, Slovenia has adopted a declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia and a foreign policy strategy. The adoption of these two key documents, which are among the main actions in the field of foreign policy in the Coalition Agreement 2014-2018, is a fundamental achievement in the field of foreign policy. We adopted this declaration in the National Assembly on 10 July last year, and the Government marked the text of the Foreign Policy Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia with the phrase Slovenia is safe, successful and respected in the world. And it's real. The Declaration with broad political and professional consensus was adopted by the National Assembly after 16 years and after repeated failed attempts in past mandates, without success in the mandate of the drafters of this interpolation. Therefore, they have not been able to take this step, and today they are broad-minded with misleading qualifications, czech, improvised, inconsistent, vague, indistinguishable and not all foreign policies. But he taught the citizens to let sand in their eyes again. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working very well with the National Assembly, in particular with the Committee on Foreign Policy. This cooperation takes place in a number of ways: through informing the National Assembly about foreign policy issues, through explaining foreign policy activities, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs answers parliamentary questions, at the proposal of the Ministry of Government proposes to the National Assembly to define a specific foreign policy issue. Also in the time of the current government, it is a practice to have members of the Committee on Foreign Policy at meetings of the Committee once a month to ask questions to the Minister and to give initiatives. The third-signed speaker of the interpellation, President of the Committee on Foreign Policy and my highly respected colleague Jože, also publicly praised the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have to ask — when did you not mean it? When you praised the minister, or today when you're interpreting him? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the central government coordinator of European affairs, is also concerned about the preparation of proposals that are being decided by the Council of the European Union. Minister Erjavec regularly participates in the consideration of these views and, finally, Minister Erjavec is responsible for the implementation of the Prime Minister's initiative on the active promotion of the foreign policy aspect of the resolution of the migration problem. They are coalition colleagues and will present the other aspects of today's topic. Finally, I want to look at the thinking of an ordinary little person, because this basic building of our society is how each of us, when in a hurry abroad, perceives the opinion of foreigners about Slovenia. Far from home and among foreign people, it is easy to find out how foreigners perceive the Republic of Slovenia. On that basis, you create a picture of her international reputation. Everyone is known as natural beauty, clean, orderly, just, safe, respected. To that end, all its policies, including foreign policy, are deserved. The current government and foreign minister, who is its Vice-President, remain unsettled at this course. My definition of today's interpolation, however, is clear to you. I am convinced, like the Members of the Modern Centre Party and the Coalition, that investors' words intended for the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia are more of an interpretation, paraphrasing, improvised, unclear, incomprehensible – in one word mistaken. I'll conclude with the initial story of the crane. The fires really lit, but the rustlings from the grill this time are hard to eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to prepare Mr Peter Wilphan. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, a nice greeting to all present at the Hall! First, let me say that interpellation is some normal instrument that we use in democracy to highlight certain problems in society or the problems that individual within the government has. So that, on my part, there is no personal objection to the Minister, but in the light of all the facts cited in the interpretation, even all the facts that have been presented, we should probably also have a debate in this National Assembly and also conclude on this in the end, although I am aware in some way that this result, which will eventually be, is somehow predictable. But there's a lot of documents you've been talking about on the table. Thus we have a strategy on the development of diplomacy in Slovenia, talking about a safe, successful and respected country in the world. However, I would like to draw my attention to one point which also led me to the debate on this interpretation. In view of the fact that all of you are thus praising foreign policy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the Minister, it is still necessary to take a slightly more critical view of individual facts. I believe that not all diplomats are bad, but I do not believe that everyone is as excellent as some of you debate. There are a lot of problems in this direction within diplomacy itself. It is interesting, however, at least for me in this document, that the document dealing with relations with the Republic of Italy does not specifically mention a matter relating to the amendment of legislation within Italy, even at the country level, which speaks of the creation of new legislation in the field of local self-government. I think that there have been several meetings in 2014 and 2015, both by the Committee on Foreign Policy and by the Commission on Slovenians around the world and instead, where we have talked a lot about this issue and have also adopted a number of conclusions. It has already been pointed out that the Government, ministers and all those who should respect the conclusions of the National Assembly do not do so, but this is not only the issue of all committees of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Commission, but some commitments have been made by the Minister in this direction. These commitments are also repeated all the time in meetings with roof organisations, wherever they are encountered. Earlier there was also a speech that one important document was a declaration. In the working paper of the declaration, on this issue, regarding the protection of the interests of our neighbourhoods, I quote: "... that this declaration will define the protection of interests and efforts to raise the level of legal protection of Slovenian minorities in Italy." However, if we look at the final material that was accepted in the Government and also in the National Assembly, this line is no longer available. We are talking only about the situation and development of indigenous Slovenian national communities in Austria, Croatia and Italy. That is to say, all that we have discussed on individual committees for almost a year and a half, the commissions where the commitments of individual government representatives, in particular the minister, have been made, will no longer appear in the declaration. However, given that you are also monitoring the media, you know that this is one of the key problems in keeping the Slovenian language in place, especially for Italy, where this amended legislation in the field of local self-government has been taken a major step back in respect of the protection law for Slovenians. So I'm surprised that you're so glad to praise the strategy as well as the declaration. You can read work materials, but in the final version of the individual important things that I want to point out are simply not. Earlier, the talk was about how our diplomats and all those who participated in the arbitration process were excellent, ideal. However, I wonder myself whether this can be said for Mr Sekolec and Mrs Drenik. I myself have been on a many committee, where at least Mrs Drennik has acted very crediblely to me and I was actually disappointed with such absurdity, I would say, the reason for her withdrawal or the reason which discredits the end of her professionalism, which she has demonstrated in all the debates in the National Assembly. And if we have one such case, it is no wonder that we can ask ourselves whether the resort led by Mr Erjavec as Minister is actually filled with credible personnel, whether everyone is committed to respecting commitments that would benefit the Republic of Slovenia. No wonder and in some way discredit all these concerns that are justified. There is also much talk about the success or success of economic diplomacy, which has somehow been integrated within the foreign ministry. However, it has already been pointed out that we cannot only look at visits in foreign countries and travel, but we also have to ask how much this diplomacy has helped in projects that we have been predicting in Slovenia for many years not to talk about the second track and what else, where we are all talking about the need to obtain some credible foreign investors, but no one is saying who is responsible for this. If we listen to someone who talks about this being a jurisdiction and also tries to gain certain powers from other sources into their own umbrella, it means that on the other hand he is also responsible in cases where we are talking about the absence of foreign investors in our country. It is also important to ask whether diplomacy is really successful or not. In connection with the previous problem, which concerns our foreigners in Italy in particular, we can also talk about the fact that the Slovenians Commission is actually one part of foreign policy and is actually within the same influential group, within Desus or the Minister for Foreign Affairs, probably has a major impact on the Minister without a ticket, who runs the Slovenian Commission around the world. Finally, we should deal more intensively with this particular issue of protection of interests, not as has been the case in recent times with the practice of dealing with purely different matters at the Office for Slovenians around the world. In particular, the secretary at the Office, who is responsible for implementing the policy adopted by the Office, is, last but not least, the commission we have in the National Assembly is dealing with demography because someone has assigned it. Now for the last part, which was particularly problematic for me. We had the opportunity to listen to the foreign policy expert, Mr Milan Brglez, President of the National Assembly, who, in conclusion, said quite a few things that I would find very difficult to agree with. There are some very strong statements in the magnetogram, which I would say are problematic. He put thesis that attacks on representatives in his own country are in these conflict situations and crisis situations, as he said, more dangerous for the country than that we use instruments of parliamentary democracy, which is interpretation. I don't know how the rest of you are looking, but the president of the National Assembly has set up the thesis that is in the magnetogram, so you can read that the interpretations are a little different than not dangerous for the country at this point. He also admitted or his thesis is that we are in conflict and crisis situations. For the past two or three months, you have been talking about normal situations, that migrants are just a marginal issue, that there are no problems, that we are coping with them, and that we are successfully faced with them, and that there is no problem in this regard, there are no conflict situations. Our President, and your President of the National Assembly, at the same time, is talking about conflict and crisis situations in this country and that we should therefore not use instruments of parliamentary democracy such as interpretation. And that's a bigger problem for me than what we've written in interpretation. He's also talking about two sentences earlier, that we're kind of talking about internal disputes, playing with populism, and so on. I hope he's engaged and that he may explain his statements. However, I would like to stress once again that every interpretation is legitimate and must be used by the National Assembly when the situation arises. No one has the right to determine when a parliamentary majority will decide to do so. Not least, though, look at all the interpolations from the past. At each interpolation, it was said that there were no serious grounds that it was irrelevant. It usually does not take half a year to prove that all these parliamentary instruments used through interpretation are justified. I would only suggest that, at today's meeting, we seriously discuss the problems the Minister of the Interior has and that we do not consider in such an easy way this instrument, which the opposition and the coalition have at their disposal. I do hope that we are not yet in crisis situations and that we are not at a time when someone would take power without Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Wilphan has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, chairman. Once again a nice greeting to all present! Before I go to the debate on this topic today, this is an interpretation, I will answer the question that colleague Tonin raised to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. First, let me say that I do not really know whether to be satisfied or to be surprised, given how predictable colleague Tonin is. For I have been warned for a month by different people that in New Slovenia, perhaps not in New Slovenia, more specifically, Matthew Tonin at this meeting, will come to the public with one piece of information that will try to discredit me in addition to the minister. And now I'm going to tell you the whole story again. You probably all know her, but let me say it again. In May 2014, I was involved in a car accident. After that accident, that first test showed that I had a little too much alcohol in my body as legally permitted. Then a subsequent blood test rejected this and showed that as far as it was concerned, everything was within those legal frameworks. Nevertheless, immediately after that unfortunate event, I took full responsibility and also all the consequences of such a responsibility. I then publicly repented, publicly apologized, publicly said that I would never sit behind the wheel again, even if I drank a single drop of alcohol. And the key, most important, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have been a few hours after this event, not waiting for further analysis or any decision by any other official body, irrevocably withdrew from the position of Member of the National Assembly and did something that came before me very few Members, if any, and something that is extremely rare on the Slovenian political scene. Nevertheless, other official events continued, as is customary in such cases. In 2015, the District Attorney's Office proposed that the District Court in Ljubljana issue a so-called criminal decision. This means that the Court has proposed that it deliver a judgment without a main hearing. The Court accepted this proposal and handed down its judgment, which was eight months' probationary fine with three years' trial good. I didn't complain about the verdict. And now, look, I want to stress this in particular, not because there would be more than enough arguments and reasons to be able to, but because immediately after that event I decided definitively that I would not in any way interfere with any formal procedure and that I would not appeal to any decision of any official body. That's when you take full responsibility with all the consequences. In the end, I, my esteemed colleagues and I really hope that none of you will ever do this because it is a terrible experience. This is an experience that not only affects those involved, but also affects his family, friends, acquaintances, and others who can also be destroyed by life. But if this happens to any of you, and believe me, you can, just a moment of inattention, but it happens, and then I hope, and this applies especially to you, Kola Tonin, that you will have enough courage, and above all enough self-respect to do as I did in this case. Although I seriously doubt you're capable of that. Now I'd like to say one more thing about today's interpretation. I will practically not talk about the content of the interpolation itself, because I believe that everything related to the content I have already said in that presentation of our Group's position. Whatever I say right now, I would actually repeat myself, as I think we're all repeating ourselves here together, and we're probably going to be for the next seven hours. What I would like to say here is, in fact, this story about this interpretation from the moment it was introduced into the parliamentary procedure, but something about how those who are actually most responsible for this interpretation acted in this case. And I'm going to start with that press conference that actually came to my surprise by the third signed colleague, Joseph Horvat, and not the first-signed and head of the NSi Matej Tonin Group. My colleague Horvat was for me, and I must also say for our Group of Members, when we discussed this, there is always one such polite, calm, correct and principled politician and Member of Parliament. I could say all the way back to that press conference. The Committee on Foreign Policy, which led it, has also led it this way. And this committee has been visited many times by the Foreign Minister. The Chairman of the Committee always accepted the Foreign Minister with open hands, always with his discussions and his responses to the initiatives or the question of members of the Committee satisfied him, always commended him and always thanked him for his cooperation. Never any dissatisfaction, never any criticism. I remember, we have already talked about this today, including the adoption of a declaration on Slovenian foreign policy. At the time, the chairman of the committee wasn't just satisfied, I'd say he was quite quick. A lot of beautiful words that never end, no dissatisfaction, no criticism. And the third picture, we've already talked about today, that meeting of foreign policy in Brdo, when we all saw it, shows that we all saw that video when we saw the pleased, proud president of the Foreign Policy Committee sitting together with Minister Karl Erjavac and the other Februarys of Slovenian foreign policy. Again, no dissatisfaction and no criticism. Then something happened overnight. And this smooth, calm, right gentleman turned into one dragon at that press conference in huge amounts on the Foreign Minister vomited fires mixed with manure. Suddenly, this minister was the worst minister in the history of Slovenian governments, which was suddenly unprofessional and incompetent, unable to cooperate with him, broke the law, was corrupt, he employed intransparency, he did not follow the guidelines, and there was still this. Of course, after this press conference, journalists also joined the parliamentary groups. I was in Parliament at the time and asked the journalist what we thought about this interpretation in the Desus Group, and I replied that we would first read this interpretation, study it, and then decide how to proceed. But then I asked one question, and now I'm asking it again, and I'm probably going to ask it a few more times today. I said or asked: Will the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, in the event that this interpolation is not successful, not to be voted today, withdraw from his position? I, contrary to the Foreign Minister who said that I could still work with you in spite of all this, believe that cooperation between you, based on everything you said at that press conference and what you added today, and the foreign ministers could not possibly be completely normal and correct. And this cooperation will be an important force in the future, as Slovenia faces many and very difficult foreign policy challenges. Let me mention only the ongoing migration crisis and the EU crisis, and the possible exit of Great Britain from the EU, of course, the financial, economic crisis and so on. Let me conclude this part of my debate. If I were the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and had such a low opinion, such a catastrophic, bad, negative opinion on the Foreign Minister and would sign up for his replacement, and then this replacement would not have occurred, not only would I not have wanted to or could not have cooperated with him anymore, but I would not have wanted to be involved with him anymore. One word of this is called principle. The other thing I would like to talk about today is the conduct and functioning of the first-signed interpolation, colleague of Matthew Tonin, and from its submission to this day. Tonin’s colleague, when this interpellation was filed, appeared extensively in the media, played a lot on all televisions, and there were some encounters with the minister himself. And it immediately fell right into my eye and also into my ear the fact that Matthew Tonin did not at all talk about the content of this interpretation – well, because the content, we have said so, is almost certainly not – but in every way tried to discredit the Minister of Foreign Affairs personally with matters that have absolutely nothing to do with this interpretation and that have nothing to do with some basic political culture. He was talking about only now the famous weekend of Minister Erjavac, the ownership of this weekend, whether he was renovating or renovating this weekend, and he was talking about an interview from 2007. I must say that such arguments are totally unacceptable and are also unworthy of a document such as an interpretation against a government minister. Someone here has asked the question of what is behind here, what is the motive for such behaviour of New Slovenia or, I will be more precise, colleague of Matthew Tonin. Because I actually think that the New Slovenia Group is somehow a prisoner of its colleague Tonin. Firstly, colleague Tonin is extremely politically ambitious, this is a very young ambitious policy. You all probably remember what he did in the case of the former Minister of Defence, Mr Webra, when he dealt in a similar manner with the then minister. But at the time I was in some way, I could have said under the terms, even had some understanding of his actions. In fact, you know, colleague Tonin has one great desire in his life, this is his dream of being a defence minister, if not a defence minister, at least the president of the Defence Committee. Now that we have an even younger President of the Defence Committee like him, I think he will have to wait a long time for this position. Why am I telling you this? Because he told me so himself. Together we drove to Postojna for a military event, I was then president of the Defence Committee, he was a member, on his way there and back to explain to me how great this function is, how wonderful this function would be, and how he would most gladly have taken it immediately if someone had offered it to him. And perhaps according to what he was saying and doing at the time, of course, he turned his attention to himself if there was a moment to come, and perhaps that wish would come true. But, you know, there's something else I'm interested in right now, and now we're talking about the Foreign Minister. The question now arises whether colleague Tonin has now changed his priorities and has become interested in foreign policy. If so, I would also understand why he actually sent his colleague, Joseph Horvath, to that press conference that colleague Horvat had compromised himself there in some way. And if he gives himself anything, and today this interpolation will not be voted out, he will have to resign as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and we will have one good place, a free place connected with foreign policy. I'll add something else. In view of the way I am – I apologize to you in fact for the way I am discussing today, but sometimes you have to debate the way the other side debates so that they can understand you at all. My friend Tonin has another big problem, a problem in his client. Now you may find it funny, but colleague Tonin is the only right-wing politician that I hope to say is also Kučan's man. You know what that means when you tell someone on the right-hand side of the political field that he's a dog's man. If you're on the left, that's the problem. Now I'm going to explain it to you. During the previous term of office, our coalition tabled a proposal in the parliamentary procedure for former presidents of the country to continue to receive the so-called presidential allowance when receiving their pension despite Zujf. When we came to the vote, there was a problem. A large number of coalition members were missing, they were not there. I don't know why, some rightly, some perhaps not, however, we had to vote. The vote was put to the vote and the proposal received minimal support – for one vote. Do you know who gave that vote? My friend Tonin. I don't know what the reason he made that decision is, maybe he'll say it sometime. But in his client, in New Slovenia they never do and will never forget. They'll never forgive him for that either. And in this I see this great motive of Matthew Tonin to go on every so long to one of the ministers, of course the current government, and in this I see the key motive why he chose our foreign minister this time, and he wanted to discredit him with all his might, with all his might, so bitterly, so aggressively, I would say even at times primitively, vulgarly, personally. So much for that. Now maybe just a few more words about this interpretation. See, it is clear that Nova Slovenija herself could not put this interpretation into the parliamentary procedure and needed the signatures of colleagues. It makes sense that they went to SDS for signatures, and it makes sense that SDS gave them. Why not? The signatures allowed the Foreign Minister to spend a month and a half, two and a half hours here today, in his own words, for 14 hours. But what I'm interested in is why you didn't in New Slovenia when you asked for signatures, you asked your colleagues from SDS to look at this interpolation to process it, complete it, structure it to make it meaningful for you, so that you could at least drink some water. Of course there's another problem. I don't believe they'd want to do this to you because you're not the most reliable partner. Sometimes you'd be with SDS in full, sometimes you'd be just a little bit, but sometimes you'd act like you don't know them. Comrade Tonin, even the fact that you were allowed to sit there in the first place after a year and a half doesn't mean anything. I think that this is more or less just an SDS exercise, how it will be after the next election, when there will be another parliamentary group from another party sitting there instead of you. Let me finish. Anyway, this interpellation and this private war of your soldier Tonin, because this is about him, you and your client will bring nothing. Not on the political side, not on any other side. In view of the way things are going along, given the level of debate that we have heard during this period of the month and a half, the personal discredits of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, mainly by first-signed colleague Matthew Tonin, I think that all those Christian values you always advocate and claim to be yours are also questioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Procedural mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u79	After my multi-hour discussion, I never once mentioned a fellow Member Peter Wilfan, so his outburst surprised me and I forgive him for all the things.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u80	That was a little bit of a procedural abuse. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u81	But I thank the distinguished Peter Wilfán for the compliments he has given me. The one about the dragon, look, it's just your assessment, the respectable Mr. Wilfan. Anyway, I predicted you'd have me intertwined. You said that the same day. Come on, I'm here while I'm still here. Just let me interpolate. The problem is that you probably won't be the chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, given what I just learned.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u82	Replica, Mr. Peter Wilphan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u83	First of all, my colleague Horvath, it was also by accident, and even in my mind, it was not for me to be the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. I can tell you that right now. As far as this is concerned, you can stay calm. We're not interpolating you, Comrade Horvat. We just expect you to do what's right. Stand down.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Now Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u85	I must say that as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I want Mr Joseph Horvat to remain Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, and I want the coalition to continue to support his work. I don't know if he deserves all the supplements he gets as president, given that he didn't notice that Slovenian foreign policy is completely flawed until the interpolation was introduced. As for the weekend, the one who wants it is fibbed, I can show him when the sale contract was signed in 2003 on February 14th. If you're really interested in this private matter, Mr Tonin, it's no problem, you can see that you won't have a problem with it. As for the inherited weekend, please, if you tell me the location, I'm really giving it to you. Because you guys are so intense that I have another weekend, and I don't know about him. And this inherited weekend, please record it, I'm giving it to New Slovenia. Like I said, they'll be able to do spiritual exercises there.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Get Mr. Primož Hainz ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, this verbal match is very interesting. Greetings to the Minister, the Minister and the rest of the team. The characteristic of us Slovenians is this spitting in our own bowl, and we know how to do it very well, we do it over and over and over again. Repetition leads to some extent to some un-stateable attitude. But this is about the international environment following us. And not just the international environment, the media, the foreign ambassadors who are here with us, and they're carrying it to their own. It's spreading all over the world. Connotation is then negative to Slovenia and to Slovenian politics, for which there is no need, this is the first matter, and which Slovenian foreign policy does not deserve. Why? I'll tell you this with the following facts. But I am responding to the first point of interpolation, this is about managing an improvised, inconsistent, and trudging policy hopsas. But I'll start from the beginning. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the MZZ is active in the European Union and NATO in particular with its initiatives in the Western Balkans. And I'm just going to focus on this very narrow part, and I'm not going to talk about the bilateral, and I'm going to talk about regional cooperation about international cooperation. So I will go very taxively, and explicitly, what is this inconsistent foreign policy under the leadership of Mr Erjavac only in the short time that we "the new" took office. Thus, Slovenia is at this time, and I will start with one of such important matters, playing a key role in inviting Montenegro to NATO. I am only talking about the Western Balkans and I am only talking about the fact that one of the priorities of Slovenian foreign policy and the area of interest in the functioning of Slovenian policy, which is in the foreign policy declaration and which is also in Slovenia's foreign policy strategy, plus we have another set of strategic documents, and I would not now mention them. If you want, the DZBZRS, the Western Balkans Strategy, the Operations Guidelines of Slovenia to the Western Balkans, the Western Balkans Declaration, the Coordination Committee for the Western Balkans, and so on. So, the key role was to invite Montenegro. The invitation happened on the 2nd. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is the NATO Contact Embassy for this part of the region. Next. In cooperation with France, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs organised a meeting of the Brdo Process, called the Western Balkans, 23. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Next. The government and the MZZ, together with the UK, have been involved in strategic communication with the Western Balkans region. Next. The government and the MZZ have two heads of EU delegations, mainly in the Western Balkans, which are for Montenegro and Kosovo, where Slovenian representatives are. Next. The government and the LAG are instigators, active advocates of the implementation of the new EU approach to BiH, which is very important and confirmed in December 2014 by the European Union's foreign ministers. Next. The MZZ with Mr Erjavac, MGRT with Mr Restoration and the President of the Government of Cerar are 27. 8. 2015 were one of the initiators of the Western Balkans Conference in Vienna. Next. The government and the MZZ organised a meeting of the Prime Minister of the Serbian Government of Vukic in Ljubljana 21. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Next. Visit of MZZ, Erjavac 19. 1. 2016 in Serbia on the refugee crisis, this initiative is said for Greece and Macedonia. Next. Visit of the Foreign Minister of Kosovo, Mr Thaçi, which took place 10. 4. 2015, where an intergovernmental economic cooperation contract has been signed. Next. At the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the MZZ, 25. 10. Organised an extraordinary mini summit between the EU and the Balkans on migration. Next. In January 2016, the Government and the MZZ organised an international conference on the EU Strategy for the Alpine macro-region in Brdo pri Kranj. Next. The government and the MZZ are instigators for the development of the Western Balkan Counter-Terrorism Initiative, known as WBCT, December 2015. Next. Through bilateral official development assistance, the government and the LAG regulate their impact in the Western Balkans. If this is not enough because it has been focused only on the Western Balkans, then it must be said that there is also some economic diplomacy and some efficiency in these stories. [[…]] I wonder if this is very static, then I don't know what's dynamic about this time?Oh, my God! However, if we are talking about other matters, we need to ask again what this really means for foreign policy. Being active is okay; is it just that you're in place, but is it right?Oh, my God! It's a matter of debate. And if I may conclude, I agree that the interpretation is politically legitimate, but I see it more as a political war game against the government and against the minister. That is why I will not support it clearly; but there are many who wear different badges on their clothes and are large patriots. The big question is that when we bring such matters into a state-of-the-art ministry such as this, we also have the same role and the same way of working as the military and the police to destabilize such important national authorities; if that is the meaning of a constructive policy, then God help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I reject interpolation as unfounded. I refer, however, to the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been adopted, as has been cited many times today. Last year. External policy should be at the service of the Republic of Slovenia or its inhabitants and residents. External policy must regulate relations with key economic partners abroad; foreign policy must support the strengthening of trade on foreign soils. Economic diplomacy is at the heart of this diplomacy, which Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec has advocated since being Minister, already in the second term; and of course this is a priority in today's time. On this basis, it has two plans, one is global, i.e. India, China, Brazil, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Russia, that is, links to the greats. And it has a traditional market, a nearby market, i.e. economic relations with Germany, neighbours, Austria, the Balkans and so on. As far as the global market is concerned, Iran is interesting at the moment. Slovenia welcomes the conclusion of a comprehensive agreement on Iran's nuclear programme and there will also be an opportunity for the Slovenian economy, which is why Slovenia opens an embassy there; the funds are, as we know, provided. The thesis is that Slovenian foreign policy focuses primarily on relations with the Russian Federation. This thesis is unjustifiable if you ask me. The importance of trade between the Russian Federation and Slovenia is extremely important because of the large volume of trade. I won't run into numbers because I'm not an economist, but the numbers are immeasurable to us. It is true, however, that at this point this value of trade or economic change may be falling slightly because the ruble is weakening and the purchasing power of the Russian population is decreasing. But we are on this market, we have to stay on this market, even if it were worse, and we have to insist on this market, because tomorrow it can be completely different. It's about Krka, Lek, Gorenje, Rico, Helios, Petrol and so on. The thesis is that Slovenia has not prevented the failure of the South Stream gas pipeline. At the same time, the interpretation is clear that Slovenia is too involved in the Russian market. That's a little contradictory if I can use that term. Slovenia, for the first time, cannot cancel this, and secondly, the one who wrote the interpretation is aware of the importance of the connection to Russian gas, if I may say so. In the past, we have had the cancellation of the Prime Minister's visit to Russia, and we have never carefully evaluated what it meant for Slovenia at that time. Otherwise, we also have regular cultural contacts with the Russian Federation, perhaps, or hopefully, do not harm the Slovenian economy. We have a Russian chapel that's already been mentioned. It's a period of World War I, it's a five-way relationship to World War I, to the victims of World War I, it's a five-way relationship to nature. The five-year relationship was expressed last year in the so-called situation of the anti-war situation during the Ukrainian crisis because Mr Medvedev was here for the last time. We also have the French market in Ljubljana, and we also have a monument to the French, and no one questions that. I think we Slovenians have some correct, cultural attitude towards history, to a culture that we've just survived, so we can remember some things. I hope that this year, too, the Russian Chapel will be honouredly visited and in this respect will benefit relations and, above all, the economy. Otherwise, I must say that if we look at the numbers that the Russian Federation is dealing with, with which it has economic contacts – it has them with the countries of the European Union and it has them with the countries that are NATO allies, that is, the United States of America. We respect sanctions, but in this respect we also have to be sovereign to some extent, it is an independent economic partner. But I say that for the peace process in Europe, an agreement is important for the peace process in the world, including the relationship with the Russian Federation. This relationship is important, without the Russian Federation in fact there is no real peace, and the United States of America is also aware of that, which has signed an agreement with the Russian Federation for Peace in Syria. World peace is not built on ideology, nor is the world based on ideology. And if we've been listening to a lot of quotes from the late Winston Churchill, president of the English government during the war, who was conservative in his belief, you know that he had no problems or took into account problems in the ideological sphere when he had to cooperate with the Russians, with Russia in the liberation from Nazism in Europe and around the world. Also in the interpretation of the idea that Slovenian foreign policy ignores active cooperation with the United States of America. And that Slovenian foreign policy has too much understanding for the factors that oppose the TTIP, as we like to say, the trade agreement with the United States of America; and less for those arguments that support this agreement. So we are too dislikable with this agreement. Slovenia has cultural, scientific, technological arrangements with the United States of America, contacts and this agreement, as such, is not yet complete. However, if you allow me, I will read the conclusions of the joint meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which have considered this trade agreement, which has not yet been finalised, is still being drawn up. I must tell you that the first conclusion is that the lack of information on the state of the TTIP negotiations is a source of dissatisfaction, because this agreement is an embargo on the part of the organisers. The Committee points out that the current level of protection of human health, animals, plants and the environment should be maintained and European standards achieved in these areas should not be reduced. In the United States, agricultural standards are significantly lower and, of course, we find this difficult to accept. And the committees expect that all stakeholders will be able to actively monitor the negotiations in order to fully preserve the potential for applying the precautionary principle in particular in the field of GMOs, cloned products, meat hormones, and so on. And maybe just one more conclusion, of course there are more. The Committees of the National Assembly point out that the current position of the United States is that market access for all agricultural and food products with exceptional sugar is fully liberalised after a certain period of time. I quoted this because this joint committee meeting was also attended by representatives of the opposition parties, if I may say so, and no one objected to these decisions. On the contrary, even of those species, there has been considerable radicalisation in relation to the rejection of this Agreement. I am asked how or why the members of the European People's Party, whoever is already a member of this party, voted in favour of this agreement, even though the Committees of the National Assembly in Slovenia rejected it. On whose behalf the Slovenian Members in Europe vote differently, I stress which parties. Ambassador Hartley said of the relations between Slovenia and the United States of America: Slovenia and the United States are friendly and partner countries, the United States are cooperating with Slovenia in the interest of collective security of both citizens within the framework of NATO. So the Slovenian position in diplomacy as well as, in my opinion, should not be the position of an ideologically subordinate partner, not to say more colony to great powers in Europe and the world. It must also express the confidence of a small nation in the society of more people. Mr. Mag. Shircelj is right, of course, we have three foundations of Slovenian foreign policy: plebiscite – although I would say independence, plebiscite was one of the key points of independence – the European Union and NATO. But with NATO and the European Union, we are supposed to work together as equal partners. This also raises the question of the interaction in foreign policy between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the National Assembly, the President of the State, also the Chamber of Commerce, of course, which is usually omitted in our debates; we insist that the National Assembly lays down foreign policy and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs implements it. However, last time in college, we experienced that Mr Horvat, President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in a punitive sense, when they wrote a common foreign and security policy document, that he did not explain exactly what kind of document it was, because it was clear that he did not receive an exact written instruction from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[…]] I think that something in the National Assembly should also be said about the subjectivity of the National Assembly, one that is even the holder of foreign policy. As far as Croatia is concerned, I must say here that every comment is very incorrect. Of course, Croats and I will never come clean if I can be direct and non-diplomatic. You know that Croats have a completely different relationship, they don't stick to any agreement, that's historically clear. Nor will they, would be pleasantly surprised if this government were surprised at this point, but they still return in many respects in the 19th century, a period of imperialism. And here we are for them a painful point, and I would not continue to explain. Otherwise, Croats have problems with evolution within themselves right now because you know they're trying to throw it out of the curriculum. Okay, that's another thing. As for the initiative and the passiveness of this policy, I also reject that. I must say that we were very proactive in Slovenian foreign policy when we placed the border containers on Dragonjo, when the Republic border was always at the quarry above. And if we had that border, if the border container was standing at that quarry, we'd have Savudria today, and we wouldn't even be dealing with the problem of the open sea. Of course, the Vilnius Declaration, which we have adopted in the past, would not lose words as one of the Slovenian foreign policy initiatives. And, of course, the issue of the refugee crisis was also mentioned in the debate today. The refugee crisis is mentioned by some because that is what they say every other day. Professor Zwitter once on his 18th - century exam asked a market Slovenian: What do you think of England in the 18th century? And he said to the Slovenian market who was on exam: If we want to know anything about England in the 18th century, we need to know something about France in the 18th century. And then, of course, he was there explaining about France and the professor left it to him. And that's what it looks like around us – we're talking about foreign policy and we're going straight to the refugees. There's only one thing I need to mention. The thesis that we are out of Schengen Europe, while at the same time claiming that the Schengen is no longer; these two are completely at odds. And the one who explains it every other day is one of the opposition Members, to think a little bit about which is the starting point and will be able to discuss it. As for the refugees, I have to add the pot because I spoke to the former director of the Slovenian student's home in Trieste last time. In that student home in the 1990s had Slovenian children, then in 1994, 1995 had children from Bosnia and Herzegovina, so today refugees have different colors; and of course no one asks whether they should have them or not. And we in Kranj are implementing some kind of tractor revolution. Let me finish. I was talking about the narrow part of the interpolation, so my statements aren't balanced, because I was talking about one part, so there wouldn't be any boomerang about it, but of course it could. I appreciate this interpolation, but I'm underlining it as inappropriate. For her initiative, we can only find narrow political interests in the battle for political space held today by the political party Desus, led by Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you, Madam President. I must explain to the Vice-President of the National Assembly. I have been raising hope that he has listened to the college, I have been explaining one school hour about the complication, but now I see that Mr Hainz does not understand, another who does not understand – yes, the subjectivity of the National Assembly; but when it comes to foreign policy, what you are all repeating today, we need to coordinate, there are more actors, there is the National Assembly, there is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is the Government, the President of the Republic and so on. This, however, was not my request, Mr Hainz; the Committee on Foreign Policy, where the coalition has a majority, decided to invite the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to participate, from which there was nothing. Nothing! Thank you for helping me. To stress once again that there has been nothing from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the points of reference for the European Union's global strategy to be drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the floor. Get Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I really like to do my job in this house, in the National Assembly, but when I listen to some of the debates that go on to a personal level, I must say that this enthusiasm for my work is less; it is totally inappropriate for us to go to a personal level. However, I must also say that when I came to the National Assembly, when I was honoured by the leadership of the European Union Affairs Committee, they immediately taught me my first lesson. Mr Horvath – who joined us again – was one of those mentors of mine, for which I also thank him, who taught me that all political parties must blow the same horn as foreign policy. And here goes my thanks to you, Mr. President of the Foreign Policy Committee. In a way, I have been able to elude from this – and it has been said several times today – that foreign policy must be state-efficient. Today's debate shows that this is not the case. That makes me sad. And it grieves me that such acts, this interpretation, which is empty, which, as I read it, is very generalised and general, is misused for some internal political struggle; and this is bad. This is bad for the Republic of Slovenia, for the National Assembly and for all institutions that deal with and deal with foreign policy. This foreign policy is extremely horizontal and relates to a whole bunch of areas, this needs to be stressed. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister, who is currently on the pedestal, on the grill or how to say it, must coordinate and coordinate and connect most of the ministries operating in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, there is always room for improvement, but I believe that this ministry with the minister in charge is doing this task very well. Perhaps I would focus on the external policy relating to the European Union, because I know this in some way. And quite a few indications were that the foreign ministry and the Republic of Slovenia were not proactive in operating in the institutions of the European Union. Let me list some of the achievements or initiatives that this government has achieved, including in cooperation with and in particular in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Committee on the Affairs of the European Union, as you know, deals with the different positions that the Republic of Slovenia advocates at sacred meetings or meetings of ministers taking place at European level. We are considering these views on the Committee on European Union Affairs and also on the Committee on Foreign Policy. These views are also duly presented on these committees. In addition, I must point out that, unlike previous mandates, most of the meetings of ministers in this mandate are attended by ministers; as in previous mandates, State secretaries or any other officials have attended these meetings. Secondly, it should be stressed that a number of conferences are taking place in Slovenia. Something was mentioned. Mr Ferruga mentioned the International Conference at the launch of the European Union Strategy for the Alpine Region. It occurred to me that there will also be an event when this strategy is presented in the functioning of the European Union. The various Commissioners of the European Commission and other representatives of the European institutions are going to Slovenia, and they also listen to our advice and our views and take them into account more than once, as has been seen in recent visits by the High Representatives and the President of the European Council. Not to mention the days of Slovenian diplomacy and the Bled Strategic Forum, which has become an event at the highest diplomatic-economic level and has been for the decade. It was also an extremely good participation, and the President of the European Council was also present at this meeting. Thirdly, Slovenia had a very active approach in this mandate, a proactive approach to promoting internationalisation in Slovenian companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which has also become the lead of many Member States of the European Union, indicating the importance and importance of economic diplomacy, which we consider to be a priority and is repeatedly and again highlighted. Fourthly, Slovenia is extremely committed in its communication with the European Union – and this has also been discussed by the Committee on European Union Affairs – to ensure the transparency of the negotiations under the controversial TTIP agreement, which has already been mentioned today. In addition, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has a working group composed of NGOs and various ministries. That's exactly what we're 23. 2. The Secretary-General of the National Assembly sent a letter that we can also look at, read and see what it says. On Friday, we will also discuss the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union from January 2016 to June 2017, which is inter-sectoral, this time in time, prepared, of course, in the coordination of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We also had controversy on one of the committees, but I think we are much better than last year when we prepared it with a six-month delay. Six, in view of the latest developments relating to the migration issue, with regard to our pro-activity, the pro-activity of the Republic of Slovenia, as it has already been mentioned today, I can re-emphasize the initiative of the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr Mir Cerar to resolve this migratory Balkan flow, which has led to a number of meetings at the highest level of the European Union. Without the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this would not have happened, because this diplomatic network we have has given its share and I think it has fallen to fertile ground. In short, this is one of the activities I wanted to list in connection with the European Union. Let me also mention that in the past Slovenia has been in the soybeans of Europe mainly because of the poor public financial situation, the difficulties in appointing a Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia and something else in such a bad light. However, if we look at it today, it has become one of the key players in tackling most of the challenges of the European Union, in cooperation with all policies of the European Union. And if I conclude, as President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I can say that Slovenia has regained its reputation in the European Union with its previous implementation of the National Assembly, the Government of Mir Cerar, the President of the Republic, and, I stress, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and has become an equal accomplice to all key stakeholders. I reiterate that there is always room for manoeuvre for improvement, but I personally believe that today's interpolation is unfounded.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Today, when we consider this interpretation against the distinguished Foreign Minister, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, I would also like to say that I regard this interpretation as unfounded, flat-rate and that it is primarily intended to malign Foreign Minister Karel Viktor Erjavac, with the aim of weakening this government, which is increasingly thorny in the heel because of the opposition's success. It is because this interpretation is not based on irrefutable evidence, but rather on its sole objective of discrediting the Foreign Minister that I wish, honourable interpellationers, to realize that this interpolation is completely non-creditable and to withdraw it. If you can't do that, I expect the debate to focus on a decent debate that will not offend the Interpelled, nor on us Members and this National Assembly. In my debate, I wanted to focus in particular on the fourth point of the interpretation relating to the arbitration procedure before the arbitral tribunal and the procedures of Croatia in this case. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to be limited because there's been a lot of talk about this today. I would point out that this process is ongoing and that the Commission of the European Union also supports the continuation of the procedure and that the State of Slovenia has done everything and will do its utmost to continue and end this process and to reach a decision. Now I would focus on the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, his objective responsibility, which is evident to him and which is linked to these alleged hearings of the talks between Sekolec and Drennikov. I must say here that in this case we cannot take this objective responsibility to Karl Viktor Erjavac. Today, he himself said in this National Assembly that all the measures necessary to avoid such a situation were taken at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So if a person commits an act, but knows that he should not, and in addition, he is a person who has a lot of knowledge about his actions and should be aware of and act in such a way that such events, so these supposed hearings, would not occur, it is clear that such acts are the responsibility of that person and only herself. Even with regard to this responsibility, which you read to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, this interpolation does not sit or is completely non-creditable. However, if I speak my mind, I am also surprised that Mr Sekolec, who is a diplomat for many years, and Mrs Drennikov, who has just as many kilometres in diplomacy, has had such a situation. It's still an alleged hearing, because it wasn't verified. Finally, I would like to comment on another statement by the distinguished Mr Tonin, who commented in his debate on the behaviour of our Minister, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, regarding the search for solutions to the influx of refugees, which should be reduced. He told him that he did not make every effort to keep Slovenia within the Schengen area. He stated that the reasons for this were twofold: the first reason was because Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec could not be found in critical situations. And the second thing is, he doesn't speak English. Dear Mr Tonin, I am sorry that he is not here to look him in the eye, and I would tell him that I am very sad to be used for such accusations, because this is a pure slander of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Such things are not worthy of taking place in this national assembly. It is a matter of discrediting the minister and, of course, of this government, of which our Minister Karl Erjavec is a member. I, too, am disappointed in Mr Tonin's behaviour, and I will tell him myself. But I will vote against interpolation, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u97	Dear Minister Karl Erjavec, all others and colleagues and colleagues! We're back at one of those points where people accuse each other instead of talking about content. I thought that in all these years we had learned something, especially that we had learned what interpretation is, what it serves, and what the ultimate goal of interpretation is. Although I regret to admit it, I will now say very aloud, at first I did not know who actually runs this interpretation or who is the first to sign it. I was a little confused, and they explained to me that Mr Tonin was the first to sign, and then a colleague of Horvath was at the press conference, and then there was Tonin again in the media. I didn't even know what this interpolation was all about anymore. All those who have heard my statement know what I think about this interpretation, especially when I read it and saw what you're accusing the minister of or what your main course of interpretation is. But when I saw you in there accusing him of things that you're lucky they didn't happen, I have to say that means that you're at some stage in confusion with yourself. Let me tell you what I think is that you have a single battle in New Slovenia today. Those who gave you signatures don't even cooperate with you today. All the heavyweights have checked out or are not discussing, and I must say that this is a sad journey to interpretation itself. I hope those of you who do not debate know that I have called you heavyweights in a positive sense that we understand each other. I am not talking about you, Mr Gorenak, not to think that you are always the middle of this Parliament's story. What's more important than that is that there are questions about what happens in these interpolations. Interpellation is an instrument under the Constitution that each parliamentary group has if it has enough signatures to submit. Usually used by the opposition, I cannot imagine that the coalition would do so; as some kind of instrument of government control and individual ministers. And by doing so, it can, as often as possible, open up substantive issues to which an individual minister or government must be defined. In the end, it is very simple to seize this — to determine whether this minister or this government still has this credibility to carry out its tasks. But since we know how math works, the question is when to put in interpolation. I'll tell you what. If I were you, I'd interpellate when you get the minister with your pants on. This path was dressed, and the jacket was on and the suit was on — you did nothing. All you've done is get yourself into what's most often gone, which is to go on personal disqualification of an individual. This is an instrument used by the opposition most often, and it is malicious and subversive. More importantly, this culture of dialogue has become a constant political dialogue. And that's what saddens me the most about the whole story, because if we do it in Parliament, then everyone else does it. If we can do this because we are representatives of the people and represent the people, then it is normal for the people to do this every day. But I'm afraid people are repulsed by such facts. I expected at least three things today. For the first time, to bring arguments that the minister rejects or cannot object; and for the third time to succeed at least at that point that you have the moral satisfaction that you were right. I'm afraid you haven't reached either one or the other or the third. The problem is if we look at what we're talking about. It doesn't matter when we're interpolating. I am afraid that when we open up individual questions in foreign policy, it is often a problem that we do this because we know that the Minister will continue to be a minister after this interpretation to be vulnerable. Many times in informal discussions, certain questions or even some issues and thoughts are falling apart if the minister is no longer credible in his policy. I am personally joining one of the debates that was ahead of me. I do not know how and how the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy will still be able to communicate and operate with the Minister. Some say that with ease and that we must have thick skin in politics, not take it personally or anything else. And yet this interpretation is very personal, it's not substantive at all. And how else do you want to take it as personal if there's no content?Oh, my God! However, if we look at the arguments that the proposer is making, we have one serious problem, which is what colleague Josef Horvat pointed out a little more to his colleague Tonin, what foreign policy is in Slovenia, since the foreign policy is the one advocated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, either the Slovenian government and thus all others who are obliged to respect the direction of this foreign policy? Is this the policy we all expect and ask ourselves, are we more inclined to the Americans, or to the Russians, or what do I know to whom, as you were wondering?Oh, my God! What's more, you're even saying that in some way we're doing too much work and we want to go one way, as we did in the former South, when we had another big country called Yugoslavia. But the problem is somewhere else, and some of you who speak and provoke today know it very well. Yugoslavia had 22 million people, it was a medium-sized country and, more importantly, it was some kind of tampon, which it has shown in history with its special, kind of foreign policy. She could've played the middle article and talked to both of them, the Americans and the Russians, and I know what else. In short, it was in the pool of great world politics. Slovenia has a completely different influence and interest in a particular region by owning itself and having only 2 million inhabitants in a given territory, such as foreign policy. And if we looked more closely at the scientific analysis of the continuity and changes in the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia, the authors were Ana Bojinović Fenko and Zlatko Šabić. The scientific work is being compared to whether the continuity of the foreign policy of the then SFRJ and today's Republic of Slovenia has changed or changed its principles and its actions. And it speaks exactly of what you condemn in one way, but in fact we would like to go back to some kind of policy that SFRJ had, which is very unusual for your political party and your way of thinking; because everything that is SFRJ and everything that is Yugoslavia is obscene to you. And yet you're the one who's defending the issue. They are very clear here: our policy is very clear and must be. Trends are moving in this direction that our role in this work is more than that the Balkans are taking us as the kind of country in the Western Balkans that is acting as a consultant, mentor, mediator, and therefore has a certain interest. So I'm surprised that after all this you start and open up certain questions, in some other Western democracies with a longer tradition, these concepts are very clear. I have never seen a Democrat or Republican come abroad to another country, and I would have maligned my Secretary of State or even talked about a policy that is not an official policy of a particular country. I am now specifically talking about America, but I can also talk about other countries. They do not come to their senses to abuse even foreign policies for internal politics and conflicts. This is simply not done, it is simply contrary to any normal attitude called a state-of-the-art attitude. Therefore, this interpolation still has a taste for the tastelessness of interpolation. This can only be understood by those who understand what I am saying; those who do not understand have problems, of course, and will remain as they are. This is a matter of perception and a matter for each individual, how it is defined and in which space it is also placed. And here is the conclusion: What is interpolation? I apologize, but interpellation is now nothing more than a marketing approach to each policy option to collect its political messages and inform the public what it thinks, how it will work. In other words, shifting attention from one problem to another to show above all how wrong things are, how dramatic. In short, things don't work in the country. I apologize, but every interpolation, I think my colleague Tonin is no longer fine; and sometimes during interpolation, some even wonder whether they are even sorry that they went into interpolation because they open up too many of those we don't want to hear, have no answers or find out that we are in pain when we hear the truth. [[…]] Someone once told me who came from your country, from your party, please listen to me carefully, because now I'm talking to you, Horvath. You always have that definition. He told me very directly: Jani, you have one big problem. When I do something wrong, I can at least confess; but you can't confess. I'll finish it differently. Some two thousand years ago said, "Forgive them, for they don't know what they're doing."
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u99	I tell my colleague Jani that we are long ago, and we forgive him. And we don't even care what client he's in, because that's his freedom. Just like religious freedom is one fundamental human right, dear fellow Jani, and those bells, you know, I don't have time. I'm sick and tired of this discussion of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Marinka Levicar ready. Excuse me, Jani Möderndorfer has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvath, you've confirmed everything I've said. When you run out of content, you go to personal disqualification. I hope you got the mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u102	Mr. Underpants, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I hope Mr Jani can calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u104	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u105	When we're talking about this interpretation, I signed it myself, and I'm behind my signature. Mr Jani notes today how we were able to sign this at this time. This has not been signed by five Members, ten or twenty, even more than twenty. Mr Jani – today I will be a little bit, as we say in the Slovenian Horsemen – you are telling us that you have replaced four parties in four years. I have to tell you this again today because you're stuck in a place where there's no place. Speaking of this interpolation, it was certainly already known how today's meeting will take place and what the vote will be. When I listen to this debate, honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, all day long, one indicator of this debate, many Members and Members, is how we came to this Parliament. One of them came through one of the parties, and then they moved on during their term of office. Even during their term of office, some even ruled that you might even have to look for them at the hall. I have to admit that I have been in the Slovenian Democratic Party for twenty years, I have never thought of being a Member. Here I am. So much different from who on my right. Earlier, a Member from Desus, who is not a member of Desus for so long, spoke of a certain conviction. I remember him when he was in the other party. He said one sentence last year: Once convicted, always convicted. I do not want to go to the Members or Members of Parliament, but we must be aware of what we are saying and what city we are from. And now to you, Minister-in-Charlie. Let me know that today I will talk about you as Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Affairs and I do not want to come to you personally. I have listened very carefully to your morning performance, and I must say, this is my personal opinion that you have started it as you run this ministry; that you have started your morning performance in style as you run this ministry. There was a little laugh in the middle. Dear Minister, today we hear a lot of condemnations left and right. Perhaps some segment of today’s audience was disturbed by the thought that the interpretation was against Joseph Horvath or Matthew Tonin. We've mixed up a lot of things. Even these two gentlemen I am mentioning are probably not always right in politics. However, I have never seen them doing any harm to the Republic of Slovenia. When we talk about interpretation, respected minister, your work causes, it is a fact, including damage to the Republic of Slovenia in several segments. Surely today it is clear to everyone in this national council that you have the power to have in your pocket the political glue that holds this coalition together. If that were not the case, perhaps some things that had not gone in the past in the right direction could have been more relaxed in my right hand. Let me tell you one segment. Last year, when we talked about Mr Webro's Minister of Defence, this political glue gave way and there was no interpolation, I think that this story also began with Mr Tonin, it gave way in your pocket and Mr Weber had to leave. Today's not the time to talk about it a lot. The fact is also that you are the president of the second largest coalition party, we have heard that today, and here you have a great argument that this power of yours is even stronger. And the arguments on my right are so much milder. Slovenia and Europe are in a difficult situation. I have to admit, I'm not much of an expert on foreign policy. If I touch one segment, arbitration with Croatia, I am firmly convinced that as Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia in this area you do not play an upright and decisive role. I'm afraid when these results are known, it can even happen that you will not even be Minister of Foreign Affairs anymore. Maybe I'll meet you on the street or meet you somewhere else and I'll warn you about it - and you'll probably turn away with your smile and your hand swing. That's one segment. I firmly believe that foreign policy is inconsistent, indecisive. I have also mentioned your work throughout the past, because you are not only an external minister in this mandate, all these cracks in the foreign ministry are certainly becoming more widespread, and from the human resources policy I could say that I will not repeat myself. That segment, which certainly concerns all Slovenes and Slovenians and us in this national assembly, is, of course, Schengen. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Murgel, I'll be very brief if you'll let me tell you all about it. Schengen must be worried about all Slovenes and Slovenians. Here your role is extremely important. Today, too, we must remember that you are the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Schengen, which has been a normal thing for all of us living in Slovenia, and for all of our neighbouring countries two years ago or a year ago, we do not actually have one. I do not argue in my debate when we lose Schengen that it is all your fault; but you must be aware that you are an external minister. Even today, I have never heard of anyone in this room, or perhaps I have heard that you are a key person in the matter of migrants. I think you're one of the more responsible in Slovenia if not the first. Even in this segment, Slovenia is losing ground and, above all, we are running out of time for things to be done six months ago, and today they are still unclear. Dear Minister, you are a very skilled politician. In the morning, you first spoke to your pensioners. The pensioners probably got it, I tracked it down somewhere, 2.5 euros, I don't know how long ago, but they lost a lot. You talked a lot about work. I don't doubt that you're not working, nor are your associates. I won't go into detail. However, many times in life, even in the economy, there is not always a hallmark of someone who does much to make success in the back. I can't get past the staffing we're hearing about in this mandate, and I can't do it in the ministry before. Dear Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Affairs, I stand alone behind this signature. I knew what I had signed, and I will also support this interpellation for the good, so that tomorrow we would be better, more determined, more courageous; above all, that Slovenia would be a more stable country for those living in the Republic of Slovenia and that this country would be attractive to foreign investors so that foreign investors would not stop at the border and build businesses outside Slovenia. This is certainly also a very important task of the Minister for Foreign Affairs; it is not an important name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u106	Ms Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare for Mr Simon Zajc and Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Minister, both to the ministers and to you, colleagues and fellow Members! I also associate myself with a number of opinions that the applicants for this interpretation did not state any valid reasons nor did they later justify them, and their assessments are subjective. Therefore, such strong arguments do not depend on the proposalers to change their views, as they are with emotions – negative feelings cannot be changed by argument to positive if a person is not willing to do so alone. It is more than clear to the interpellers that the Slovenian foreign policy is not only being worked by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry, which runs it, but also by a number of other politicians, including Members. A number of Members who are proposing this interpretation are actively involved in the international activity of this Parliament. If you are assessing that Slovenian foreign policy, as you say, is wrong, you yourself have contributed to such a policy; and then you should take responsibility for such a situation yourself. I doubt that you are aware of the fact that such labelling of Slovenian foreign policy alone diminishes its reputation in the world and at home, especially if such an opinion is also disseminated in various European and global institutions in which you are active as Members and party politicians. And that is why you are not doing well in this regard, in favor of Slovenia. As Minister Erjavac is informed that he is guilty, that Slovenian foreign policy is in the international space without more resounding and pervasive initiatives. I ask you why you did not give such initiatives in the European Union and NATO alone when you attended various meetings and meetings at the highest levels. Since we have talked a lot about the declaration, I would not like to repeat my position on this, but I would like to stress only what I read in Del today. Peter Toš, president of the Retired Ambassadors' Club, stated that the adoption of this declaration had been a great success for Erjavac and that he did not see any major derogations in the implementation of this declaration. I think that what needs to be taken into account is the opinion of such an eminent ambassador. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I regularly follow the work of this Committee, and I know that we have always been satisfied, I stress, that we are always satisfied with the Minister's explanations and answers to all the questions we have had at the meetings. His appearances were always professional and sovereign, leaving no doubt. They also provided very professional explanations and answers to all questions from both State secretaries. I can say and I think that this is not just my assessment that these two secretaries must be one of the best secretaries in the ranks of all State Secretaries. Therefore, the assessment of the applicants for this interpretation, that Slovenian foreign policy is poor and flawed, is also an insult, at least in my opinion, to both officials and all workers working in the foreign ministry and working very hard to represent Slovenia's best interests wherever necessary. Just a few words more about ambassadors and embassies and consular representations. We have talked a lot about this, too, but I would like to say what has already been said, but it is probably necessary to stress again. Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs have indeed been scrutinized, we have had these hearings, as they say, for all candidates for ambassadors, and we have always been very pleased with their answers and clarifications. And we have always been unanimous, even those members of the committee that are today putting this interpretation into their own hands, so from this point of view, I can say that we have good representatives at our consulates and embassies. There's something I'd like to say quickly, because I'm running out of time. We also discussed relations with the Russian Federation on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, particularly in the light of the European Union embargo on the Russian Federation. Some right-wing Members were critical to the Minister's statements, which stressed the importance of traditional good cooperation with the Russian Federation, which has a very good impact on our economic relations with the Russian Federation. In addition, I would like to add only what I have seen recently that the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, recently the late President of the new town of Krk, Mr Miloš Kovacic, has already celebrated in 2004 with a medal of friendship for merit in strengthening economic and friendly ties between the two countries. It is also right that such economic and friendly relations continue in advance, as we all have only the benefits. The implementation of the decisions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy, may be assessed as unfounded, namely that the Minister has failed to implement and comply with the decisions of the Committee relating to the notification of the succession of the Austrian State Treaty, the recognition of Palestine and the arbitration agreement. In all these matters, he acted in accordance with his powers. To conclude, I would also like to add to the opinion that, in fact, it has already been said that you have filed this intervention against Minister Erjavac for this reason, without really being the weakest member of this government or that this ministry is working the worst; but because it is President Desus that you succeed in bringing down the government and coalition of which Desus is also an important member. Mr Erjavec himself has already said in the introductions that even if the interpolation had fallen, you would have failed, the coalition would have remained strong. That was my opinion, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u108	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I find it difficult, dear colleague Marinka Levičar, that we have been together many times in a delegation, I have always had practical discussions, either at the conference on the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the common security and defence policy. Today I'm getting a conviction from you that I'm spreading a bad name in Slovenia. You know, that really touched me. It really touched me. Mr President of the National Assembly, in the future, you will be the one to say who will go out, or whether Horvath will go out or not. And now I've had enough of this instigation and this insult. I've had enough of this! And you say that the conclusions are being implemented – Mr President, tell us when did we get an ADP response to the PDO decision?Oh, my God! Today, no one, Minister of Foreign Affairs, talked about the Palestine procedure; you ask me, I answer as a mute, but you don't understand at all. You don't even understand that July is before September. But that touched me so much, you know, this country means a lot to me, so I'm fighting for it. As long as Desus is here, there will be a blockade on the development of Slovenia. That's what I had to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u110	The replica first. How? A replica or a procedural one? The replica has Mrs. Marinka Lefty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, you misunderstood me. I have not criticised you at all, because I have been with you many times before, especially at COSAC; but I am reading the minutes written by other representatives of our Parliament who are attending various meetings at European institutions; and from there I have not been given a good feeling that they represent the interests of our country and our foreign policy. But I apologize to Mr. Horvath, if he means it, I didn't criticize him, not at all. I have a very good opinion on him as regards his representation of Slovenia abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u112	He has Mr. Mahnic on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you, President. What Mrs. Levicar has said is of great concern to me. I think this should worry, given that she has not mentioned any member of the opposition, both members of the opposition and members of the coalition. My proposal, Mr President, is that it is obvious that the session should be stopped, that these minutes should be reviewed, that the lady should bring them in; because I really want to know who the Members are who are abroad, who are profaning Slovenia and who are working against its good name. You can be, too. You're going abroad, too. We can be opposition, they can be coalition. We both know there are always mixed delegations. I demand that Mrs Levičar substantiate her absurd claims with evidence. Apparently, these evidences exist in these records to bring them. If she does not have them, it is likely that the National Assembly has them, that we stop the meeting and look at these records.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u114	Before I go any further, I'll give my opinion. I think that Mrs Levicar has the right as a Member to express her position. On the other hand, you have the right to have another position. That's what you're saying. That's why I'm not gonna interrupt this session. That's not the subject of this session. The subject matter of this session is the interpretation you filed. However, it is possible for each Member to argue in his or her own way and to have his or her own position. It's a valuation we're not going to check. [[advertising from the hall]] No, we won't. Order, please! Mr. Joseph Horvat has the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Please put this proposal to the vote so that from this point forward the meeting will be clean. These are such serious accusations, I'm telling you, they're really serious. Put yourself in my shoes, Mr. President. Stand up. I'm trying so hard to get out of here. And you know what, the coalition has no interest. Why? Because traveling abroad hits the pocket. Yeah, that's probably why. Also, something I have pointed out at your consultation should be prepared for a meeting or a meeting, including a discussion with the Ambassador, including discussions with foreign delegations. And now I get served to waste a bad name on Slovenia when I go abroad. I'm not leaving if you don't protect me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u116	I certainly think that the whole session is long enough for Members to see this and to generate an opinion. That's why I'm not stopping her. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. I am very surprised at the strong reaction of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. I have to say, I'm not used to his appearances because he's always elegant. This trip wasn't elegant. He's in a lot of pain. The rapporteur said in general that some do not represent the best Slovenian interests outside. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, you accuse me of cooperating with Croats to improvise foreign policy to do hundreds of millions of damage. Look, I'm still calm because that's not true. And if it's not true, it doesn't hurt. It usually hurts when something's true. I hope, the president of the Foreign Policy Committee, that you will not be in pain because that might be true. [[advertising from the hall]] I don't understand why you don't tolerate the use of the same weapons; you put in the interpellation, attacked my family, interfered with my assets, fomented it from the black funds, from Patrie. I'm calm because that's not true. Your reaction — I know you as a calm, judgmental, thoughtful person — surprised me very much back there. And if that is the reaction, perhaps it would be helpful to consider your proposal. I'm not sure what you're representing out there anymore. But I think it's more of a one-off that you couldn't control your emotions right now. I believe you're nervous because you've signed something you know doesn't think this interpolation is empty. Even more, I think that what was said is true, young fellow Member of the Group, the leader of the Group of Members convinced you and led you to this interpretation. Clearly, you are the victim of this interpretation, so I understand that you are losing your nerve because I do not believe that you, as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, do not represent Slovenian interests, but I think you have lost your nerve just because you have found out what kind of game your colleague is playing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u118	I think it was earlier Dr. Vinko Gorenak's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much. My procedural proposal concerns you personally and the leadership of the National Assembly. I have been monitoring the work of the National Assembly for 15 years and earlier, more media. I haven't seen him in 15 years. Answer your own question about what you're doing with the opposition. Answer yourself the question of how many reminders you have given to your coalition partners. The answer for the public – not for you, you know that – is nothing. At the same time, remember how many reminders you gave to the right, share them both over and over like Chere Candy. This is irresponsible, Mr President, this is unfair, Mr President, the opposition is the pearl of democracy! If you don't need the opposition, then the situation is relatively clear, then you belong to your way of working in another system, that's the system before 1990. Each President, and in particular the President of the National Assembly, must be aware that he is the President of all Members, and must have the same relationship with each other. If I were to sit in that place, you know what I would do – and I suggest you do so – you must strike at your own hands first, because this will give you credibility, as Mr Dobovšek says. You have to hit among your own species first, then you can hit elsewhere, then you're credible. And I ask you kindly in this relationship of Mr. Horvath, because he was not born yesterday. And Mrs. Lefty, who wasn't born yesterday either, but, excuse me, she's talking nonsense, she's insulting, and no one notices it. Please, and I propose to you as one of the senior Members, start running the National Assembly honestly. Or say, I'm not capable of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u120	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, there's a record that I've given a lot of warnings to the left. Some of the Members can raise their hand quite nicely. It's not gonna hold that I don't give up on each other. Secondly, in this interview, Mrs Marinka Levičar apologized to Mr Jožet Horvat. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Secretary, that's not the way he insulted you. [[advertising from the hall]] At least not when I'm here. Whether you've had these things before or not, I have to do other things, too, so I can't keep an eye on every single thing. Now I'm looking at what I've said myself, because apparently there are observations about this thing. I think I'm doing this the way I know her. On the other hand, I think the vats are the same. And if there's no respect for the rules of procedure, then I'm reacting. The warnings today, at least on my part, were not given. But I'd ask for it all, and you could be a little more patient and respectful of each other. I am convinced that those of the Members representing the Republic of Slovenia, at least in my knowledge, are doing well. The ones you were with me in the delegations, I was pleased with your work. How is it with your satisfaction that I am doing this on my own, and they will most likely be, on the one hand, you also know, and on the other hand, there are reports that can be read. [[…]] But it's not the subject of this interpolation. There should be someone else for something like that. I'd like to ask you to lower your tones from here on out and take this session to the end. Well, according to everything I know, it's gonna be a long one, so please don't get any worse. He's got magic in his hands. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u121	One procedural explanation. Minister Erjavec is constantly manipulating how I should lead someone to this interpretation. Minister Erjavec, be honest enough to say that at least ten signatures are required for the interpretation. But we've collected a lot more. And do not underestimate all those Members who have contributed signatures for interpretation, that they are such losers, that they do not know what they are signing, and that they have signed something that Tonin has come up with. Please, however, you are so right to the other fellow Members who have contributed signatures to your interpretation. I very kindly ask you to stop such manipulations. Another thing I'd like to point out. Let other fellow Members, in particular from this central sector, observe Desus' tactics. They agreed to go to this meeting for personal attacks on me and my colleague Horvato. Why? So they don't have to deal with content. That they don't have to answer what Karl Erjavec did wrong in the arbitration. That they do not have to respond to the way in which the procedure concerning the New Ljubljana Bank has been initiated. Consider the case of Member Wilfan. I didn't mention it with a word, do you have to imagine?Oh, my God! When Mr Erjavec moralised how corrupt we are, I asked him only a simple question if they were really such a clean party. And I get an outage, an outbreak of Ambassador Wilfan, full of lies and drowning. Was I rude? I said to him, "Your sins are forgiven." I forgive you for knowing that you did this in effect because I know you wanted revenge. I don't have a problem, you put it out of your mind and you have a story solved today, okay? What colleague Levicharov or colleague Jurša is doing is the same. Today I'm not being intertwined, not by my colleague Horvath. Today we're talking about work and character, if you like, Minister Erjavac. And our basic message was arbitration, NLB or the Ljubljana Bank, the migrant crisis and recruitment. These are the topics that we have presented on this speaker as a matter of interpretation. I understand your tactics, but I think it's clear. It is right to focus on content, not discredit and attack. I would like the Minister as much as he has spoken and explained about all the details of how New Slovenia is afraid of the survey and I do not know what else to discuss in such detail about the NLB or the Ljubljana Bank and all the moves that belong to it. To tell why, despite his admonition, he had three more challenges regarding arbitration. These are questions that I'm interested in, not this lame political overture.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u122	First, because it was procedural before I gave the following procedure; this was a debate. I would like us not to use procedural proposals to discuss. We have plenty of time to discuss this meeting. If necessary, use the replica, of course, within what the replica is supposed to be. Do you have a procedure, Mr. Jurša? Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u123	Mr President, if you have allowed my colleague Tonin to debate, I will start with a procedural proposal. Secondly, you have to stop it, ask it at the outset to say what it wants to say about the procedural proposal; not to hold a three-minute debate and punish me as Member of Desus and the others. How and how we engaged in the debate, we know. He also knows how he has dealt with all the debates since the interpellation was put in, and to this day. That's the problem, mate Matthew Tonin. That's the key problem. And also about Mr. Horvath. Your statement about Desus and what damage Desus is doing in this House, I will not discuss and wish New Slovenia anything bad; but if you continue to do so, then you will probably be gone in the next term as you have never been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u124	One part was really procedural, the other part was debate. Can I kindly ask everything in this House, if you really have a procedural, then tell me at the beginning what should be procedural; do not discuss with others, speak to me, not to others. All of this is an integral part of the procedural proposal. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u125	This is the first time I've heard from this circus that you clowns are performing. Mr President, my procedural question concerns your holding of the sitting and also your performance earlier in the benches, and then you were absent for a few hours. If you claim to be patient with each other, as a member of the National Assembly, I invite you to be patient when you hold meetings, and that you do not allow Members to offend each other or that the Minister offends Members. Apparently Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec is nervous. Previously, you spoke of youth and age, and that we should be respectful, but you know, responsibility and wisdom in this case really do not work out what is being shown today, with a hand in hand; but we cannot allow the Baal behavior in the National Assembly. And here I appeal to you to be embittered. Distraction, there are no answers to the key characteristics mentioned today, to the letters of the arbitral tribunal. As early as 5 May, a warning to the Foreign Minister that such action should not be taken. Furthermore, the savers of the Ljubljana Bank. There are no answers to the key questions raised. The nervousness, the behavior of Karl Erjavac, we are only used before the elections, when water flows to the throat, shows that the result is the fall of support for Desus. This is indicated by public research, Mr Sušnik is setting up a new pensioner party, which will be formed very quickly. And even the pensioners, it seems, are no longer following the empty blisters that Desus is loading.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u126	What does this have to do with the procedural proposal? Wait. Can we agree to stop betting? We can't make a deal. Then we'll start with reminders. But I will not start there, but from this moment forward let me not hear one more insult and a speech beyond what needs to be spoken in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now everyone has the opportunity to respond, and this is also an integral part of the parliamentary debate. Many are even more gallant than here. Once you go around the world, you see that. But from here on out, we will speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Who wants the procedure now? No, first of all, it's procedural. Dr. Franz Duck, please tell me what's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am speaking to you, as a matter of procedure, your methods of conducting the meetings so far, when you used the Rules of Procedure in particular for the United Left, are the most desirable for colleague Kordiša and me. You even reached out to me, and you said you were giving me a reminder because I was reaching out to you. My procedural proposal is that all three gentlemen should make an appropriate statement in the Rules of Procedure – you know what, because everyone has already abused the Rules of Procedure. And I hope that from this moment forward, both you and both Vice-Presidents will use the Rules of Procedure until the end of this meeting. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thanks for the heads-up. That's what I'm going to do, but I'm not going to do it back, but from now on, we're going to be absolutely within the Rules of Procedure. We're not going to abuse any more. But it's true for the debaters, and I'm going to answer the replica myself, as I was invited when it's time. The Minister has spoken for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to explain first, and we can look at it in a magnetogram, and I've never talked about a broken client. You can check that out, so don't give me any tums I haven't said. As far as interpolation is concerned, I don't understand why both of you are so upset when we answer. We answer in the same way that you asked us about our work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And if you thought only the Minister for Foreign Affairs would be cashing in, you should know that interpellation also means defense. And you had to expect that this would hurt a little bit as much as it hurt me when all sorts of things don't hold up. Now let's go back to the content of the interpolation. I have been invited to discuss the human resources policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Once again, we have the Human Resources Commission, where the Secretary-General of the Government is, this gentleman here, sitting behind me, not a member of Desus, is a professional diplomat, because this also requires conditions. Then there is the Director for Bilateral, the Director for Multilateral, the Chief Inspector of Inspection and also a union representative who has been watching us all day and I welcome him. That's the fifth member of the Human Resources Commission. In our case, candidates are invited, on the basis of this call, the Human Resources Commission makes a choice, on the basis of this election, the Minister for Foreign Affairs proposes a candidate to the Government, before discussing with the President of the Government whether the candidate has support and, of course, with the President of the Republic. A hearing or so-called hearing shall then be held on the Committee on Foreign Policy where the members of the Committee on Foreign Policy check whether the candidate has the necessary knowledge. Probably not so in the professional sense, but rather in the political sense, whether he will be able to adequately defend Slovenian interests in the field of foreign policy. This is how ambassadors are recruited; while for general consuls, the procedure is concluded with the Government, because we have a general consul, such as Trieste, Monoster, Celovec. As regards the other personnel, the call is also an invitation to tender, and the Human Resources Commission from among the candidates declared shall determine which one is the best; and he usually holds that seat. I don't know where the political deployment is, but even less I understand this perception that we're personneling from Desus. I can tell you, we have maybe three members of Desus at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not to ask how many other parties there are, especially from the 1990s. I have to say, I don't understand this statement. They've reviewed the inspections, the audits, the Court of Auditors, everything's fine. But I have to defend myself here all the time against these allegations that some clienteleistic policy is a human resources policy and I don't know what. I can do this because I have one more hour and a few more hours later, I can repeat it in two hours if some find it difficult to understand the human resources policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, it is necessary to know that most of the staff must be diplomats. What does a diplomat mean? It means acting in foreign policy, it means a diplomatic exam. I can't blackmail someone who comes out of the road, but he has to meet certain conditions. I have to say, I don't understand these readings. If we are going to the Ljubljana Bank, regarding the Ljubljana Bank in Sarajevo, I have said that the action has been filed long ago, and I have not been Minister for Foreign Affairs at all, which is what Bosnian savers have brought before the European Court of Human Rights and have succeeded in the process. And what does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have to do with this?Oh, my God! Nothing. Even less, what does Minister Karl Erjavec have to do with this matter, except that we have tried within the core group to find solutions to how the damage would be minimised. However, this is a question that should have been resolved in the 1990s when our country was emerging, and that is when these bilateral problems with Croatia should be resolved. I don't know why we couldn't save them then. The transferred roles of Croatian savers, I said that I was resolved in February 2013 in the sense that I continue to negotiate with the Croatian side. The reason was that we had just announced that we would leave the government, and then the President of the government said he would take matters into his own hands. And I think he's done the memo right to the end. Nothing helps if the memorandum is corrected, but if the Croatian side does not respect it. And where is Karl Erjavac's responsibility here now?Oh, my God! The Vienna Convention mentioned in 2001 is still in force and we still refer to it, so that these observations around the Ljubljana Bank, that it is my fault for this hundred million damage, and we know that this is an open problem since the beginning of our country and that we have done our best, together with the then President of the Government, how to resolve this matter. Now you're burdening me here like I'm the main culprit. About the arbitration, I didn't hold the phone. I wasn't caught listening because I wasn't doing it. But when that happened, I did everything I could to keep this procedure going. We've always known that the Croatian side doesn't want arbitration because it's inconvenient for the Croatian side. And what did we do? Persuading all the members of the European Union, I have had discussions with all foreign ministers to support the continuation of the arbitration procedure, because if there is no more arbitration procedure, if this solution falls, then the interstate borders will never be resolved in the region. We know that Croatia still has open borders with Serbia, with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, arbitration as an instrument is suitable for the resolution of such disputes. The European Commission is also on the basis of this effort – here I must also commend the entire diplomatic network, state secretaries, all the co-workers at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the President of the Government, his cabinet, the President of the Republic, we have succeeded – said that it supports the arbitration process. I sometimes get the feeling that you really want this thing to fall down to prove to Jerjav that it's his fault. That's the feeling I get. I hope that in March, when the oral hearing is held, the arbitral tribunal will decide to continue this procedure. And I don't understand, you say, now is the time for interpolation. Why didn't you file it in July when this happened? That's when you were state-fed. What's changed? I still don't know if the arbitration procedure will continue. What changed, except for that revolving poll in Del that encouraged you to file an interpolation. It's about migration. Do you think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is really the person who will solve this global European problem?Oh, my God! Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia?Oh, my God! However, I must say that we have worked well with the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, with the President of the Government, to help bring his initiative together as a solution to the Balkan migration crisis. And now you're telling me, because I was a four-week coordinator as Vice-President of the Government, you're giving me no confidence in my work from September 15th to October 15th, when we haven't had any real experience with what a migration wave means. And when we saw that this route is changing, because Hungary has set up fences, the Prime Minister of the Government has taken over this crisis headquarters and has been leading the matter since mid-October. And here, in general, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is told that he is responsible for everything. Guilty of falling by 16%. If it wasn't for Desus' party, it would have dropped by 30%, because the rest of you are just saying what you're going to do -- during the election campaign. I was wondering if you'd support the reconciliation of pensions. And you say, a few Euros each got. A few euros is a lot for someone. And when the next coordination takes place, there will be a new coordination on these few euros. When it comes to regression — what do pensioners need, what do they need? But I believe you're uncomfortable because I always point out to this population that it's hard to help it. And I will continue to work within the government as far as this is concerned. As far as foreign policy is concerned, it is completely flawed, completely improvised, and I don't know why we have 400 career diplomats. Then the policy in the National Assembly in the field of foreign policy is completely flawed or something. And then you wonder, when we answer you, in particular, we give you answers, you're surprised that in this sense both Members are now under interpolation. You guys aren't under interpolation. This session would not have been if it had not been triggered, but one would have expected it to be reasoned; even if the media had estimated that it was empty, that there was nothing in this interpretation. You want me to take responsibility for the South Stream?Oh, my God! Then you refer to the other signatures. I have friendly relations with some, including the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Do you know what they told me that they were sorry that they gave their signatures because they didn't read the interpolation? And what our Member Peter Wilfan said, if we had shown it earlier, and we would have done it in a professional way – because I am aware that the foreign policy I am leading is not perfect, but the one who is making mistakes is doing it, too, but from the "wrong work" that it is a catastrophic foreign policy, which is an exaggeration – you would not have been able to put into interpolation as you couldn't have done last July; if you hadn't helped your colleagues. But when they saw your product, they were very surprised. But I must say that I too was very surprised because your party has some foreign policy tradition, Lois Peterle was an external minister, still a member of your party, a European Member. At least he'd be asked to help you add some meat to this interpolation. That's how hard it is to talk. Now will be the next phase – we close the meeting of the National Assembly, Mr Tonin has a document that burdens the Minister. Why don't we do it by 9:00 in the morning if you have such a burdensome document. But why aren't you at 9:00? Since you're going to one scenario, you think we're playing a movie here for the audience. After a few hours of discussion, I believe the audience's interest on TV 3 and on this new TV has fallen. Maybe they'll switch off quickly when I answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u130	Mr Franz Trček has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u131	Mr President-in-Office. The contents of my procedural question will be what the content of this meeting is. The content of this meeting, if I have understood it correctly, is the intervention of the Foreign Minister, where we are talking about the content of his work as an external minister. Not pensioners who have been abused here for nine hours. My mother is also one of those pensioners who has less than 450 euros in pension. The United Left will support the coordination of pensions. I'm a little bit over the computer's finger, and those rude 4 passes are going to come just enough to let SDS say, and so much for a refugee lady in one year or so. I would ask, Mr President, that we base our meetings on the topic of interpretation. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u132	We'll sit down and base it on interpolation. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u133	♪ All alive ♪ [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u134	"All life" is probably the label for everything that's happened in all these hours, but I think we're at the interpolation point now, and we're responding to the evidence that's been given. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you, President. We've been sitting for eight hours, nine almost, passions are getting hot, we see that only procedural proposals are coming that are being misused. That is why, President, I would like to ask you in a procedural manner to suspend this session for 15 minutes to half an hour, in your opinion, if you decide to keep your heads cold, so that we can get some air and then proceed normally with the agenda item that is scheduled today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u136	Unfortunately, I cannot accept your procedural proposal for a simple reason, because I expect us to close later. Then there will be an interruption, certainly; but we will not double and prolong it. Mr. Matthew Tonin has the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u137	Minister Erjavec is extremely skilled at manipulation and I will now procedurally explain the matters concerning the closure of the session. In my introductory presentation, I said that I had certain documents that bear the mark in secret, and I cannot say them in a public session. I have informed the President of the National Assembly of these matters in advance that the professional services have been able to prepare themselves for this. Even when we had informal consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, I said these things, but the agreement at the time was that public debate would be allowed to debate these things; and then I would end up presenting those documents that I have. This is because, in the case of the then Minister of the Vebra, it was very heavy and hot blood, because I proposed that the meeting be closed at that time, if I had prevented some Members from having a democratic debate in an open session. And since I wanted to be corrected to all the other Members and not close the session immediately at the beginning, I waited until the end. Dear Minister and your coalition, you have the majority, you can close the session at any moment, there's no problem, you can close it now, this moment. With regard to the correctness and credibility of Minister Erjavac, I believe that this case in relation to the SDS is extremely eloquent. You imagine the Minister of Foreign Affairs publicly telling what he and his colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party are talking about. This made them laugh to the end so that he on the open stage would tell him what they were talking about and what they had told him. Thank you so much for such a partner.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u138	Let's say I consider the first part to be procedural with an explanation of when the session will be closed. The second part was once again a debate. Mr. Prikl will have him on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I note that there is a lack of time for some parliamentary groups to simply use procedural proposals and discuss them. A number of recent debates, i.e. the last performances were not a procedural proposal, but were debates. Dear President, I'm sure you'll warn me now, and I'll get a reminder, but I'm asking you to stop or not give your word for a procedural proposal, if that's not the case. However, I would like to proceed with the meeting and bring it, if possible, to the conclusion today and not to vote on the interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u140	I will take your proposal into account so much that I will begin to intervene in the word at a time when the procedural proposal will no longer be a procedural proposal. And if necessary, he also took the word of such a Member. Any other procedural proposals? Mr Tomaž Gantar has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much, because I'll be brief. I would just like to warn or say: Mr Tonin, if you will use procedural proposals for insults – and I hope you will not allow it, the President – in the sense of manipulator and similar to Minister Erjavac, then I think we will start talking again a little differently. I think it was also the President's agreement to stop working in this way to discuss arguments and interpretation. I really hope, Mr President, that we will continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u142	I hope there's no offense. I believe that what has now been said was at the border, but it is not an insult. Usually in these matters, if I don't recognize the insult myself, someone who is offended has to point to this. Now let's get on with it. Mr. Simon Zajc has the word, get ready for Dr. Franz Duck and Mr. Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with the team, the rest of the ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues! I almost forgot what I was going to say because we've been playing with procedurals for an hour, so maybe I'll look at the list a little more, don't mind me. We have five hours left, and this day will be interesting, because hand to heart — interpellation is empty and we do not have much to talk about. I expect there's going to be a show like this that we've had in this day and age. And I'm going to focus really on the subject we have, and I'm not going anywhere else. One thing is that I would do and that we think is very confusing in this interpolation, and this is that in this interpolation, among other things, it is clear that we have a very wrong foreign policy. This is confirmed by our moving away from the Western countries of the European Union, from the United States of America; on the other hand, we are increasingly favored by the Russian Federation, China, the Western Balkans region. But all of this doesn't hold up because if we look at what we're really doing, we see another truth. For example, the Western European countries, we have recently adopted a new strategic partnership plan with France, we are deepening relations with France, we are deepening our contacts with the UK, we have had a visit from the foreign minister to us, both the government presidents have met. We have a partnership with Germany, our foreign minister, Mr Karl Erjavec, was visiting Germany recently and also their foreign minister was visiting Slovenia. With the United States, we are deepening relations, we all remember, shortly ago, the Prime Minister of the Government took a very broad economic team to tour the United States. We have strengthened our dialogue with neighbouring countries, with Italy, Austria, Hungary. Now that the elections have passed, they are also correcting Croatia. Here I might refer to Mr Krivec, who said in his intervention that we have no strategic document to mention our Italian minority or our foreign nationals in Italy. But that's not true, we do. If we look at the Foreign Policy Declaration, under point II. The objectives of foreign policy, the seventh indent, we have exactly that, one of the objectives of our foreign policy is to preserve and develop Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries. So all that is evident to Mr Erjavac and, in general, this flawed foreign policy, is not really to be supported, so we are speaking in an empty language, so we are saying things that are not relevant to today's topic. Cooperation with the V4 Group is also evident, for once too much cooperation and once too little cooperation. But that too little, that's not true, with the V4 Group, we're very well involved, we had a joint meeting of both governments, the Slovak Prime Minister was visiting us. We are working very intensively with all of us in the area of refugee crisis, economy and transport infrastructure. This is happening, but on the other hand we have diplomatic ties and diplomatic relations with other countries, such as the Russian Federation, such as China, the Western Balkans. We have also been in the midst of a crisis for some time now, as regards the Ukrainian crisis. And as far as this crisis is concerned, our foreign policy, of course, supports the views of the European Union. At the same time, we continue to pursue diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation, because it is in our interest that this crisis ends as soon as possible so that sanctions can be lifted. Ask the farmers how pleased they are to have the embargo, ask the processing food industry, ask the economy; for them it is quite right for them to withdraw and that our diplomacy also cooperates with the Russian Federation. And here was another observation, I think that Mr Šircelj was that in crisis issues we follow only the position of Brussels; that this is a mistake, why we are not more proactive. And in this case, Mr Erjavec was criticized for being proactive. It will be necessary to decide what we want to say; when it suits us that we are proactive, when we want to take only the views of Brussels into account. It is then difficult to meet these requirements that have been exposed today, especially because they are unreasonable and because they had to be exposed and invented because of the interpolation being empty. The Western Balkans, of course, remain a priority region, a region we understand. This is the region where we are appreciated, and this is the region about which other countries ask us and appreciate our opinions, our views and our solutions to this region. Of course, we will remain active in this region. Then came the refugee crisis, and in this case both the prime minister and the foreign minister showed a lot of pro-activity. The crisis is now being resolved in the Western Balkan region. Again, it comes to us that we have good relations with this region, which is also the topic of interpolation; it is ironic. Thus, we are too active in this region, but at the same time we need it and, on the other hand, it is evident that we are not proactively addressing the refugee crisis. I think we've all come to understand a little bit now what this interpolation is like and why it's happening to us in this session what's happening to us. I'll get it over with. I don't think today's session is necessary. At first I thought that the only benefit you might have is to the proponents, because you've got some extra term on TV, which article has already been published; but now after this session I think about how things are going together, how we've become emotional and we feel all of us personally attacked that no one, but really no one with this session profited anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today, the Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Krivec, misunderstood my thesis and took them out of context. If I had listened to my full implementation, I would have seen that, for the first time, I had never denied anyone the right to use the interpolation instrument. This is guaranteed by the Constitution. However, we need to talk about whether the instrument is unwise and non-stately used in specific cases. I have also talked about the fact that internal disputes over the foreign policy of the country and the public attack on the foreign policy of the key representatives of the country have consequences, and this is largely negative. As far as crisis and conflict are concerned, I have stressed that I have spoken from the point of view of the United Nations vocabulary. It is very clear what the situation and the conflicts mean. If Mr. Guilty were close to this vocabulary, I'd understand that. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Guilty, sorry. This will cover a very wide range of crisis situations, including the refugee-migrating crisis in Europe. By no means did the use of the word conflict in this case mean that I am referring to armed conflicts. In this context, however, armed conflicts are not to be played and are not preferred. Finally, I also talked about dangerous populism games with the emotions of citizens during the refugee-migrating crisis, at a time when citizens should actually be at peace. That's what I said. These games, I still think they are dangerous and infertile, and I do not intend to give up and not run away; nor do I from everything else I have said. In other words, it does not mean that any of you in the hall, which you are or are not at this time, do not respect or that someone in this room should cease to serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, get Mr. Jean Mahnic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, chairman. In 9 hours and 20 minutes, I've been doing a lot of good luck. I'm listening to this thing, which is officially called interpretation. If I sum up these nine hours and 20 minutes, I'll just say Symphony No. 6, opus 74, Peter Iljič Tchaikovsky, known to laymen by the name of Pathetic. Otherwise, I expected a minute of silence because Vid Pecjak died. If Drajček and three Martians came in and I had listened here, Mr Peršak asked what he would do; we agreed that we would probably escape back to Mars. Of course, someone listens to this matter, you know; not only people, citizens and citizens listen to it, but also those without citizenship, even those who have been erased, including foreigners who live in Slovenia; they also listen to the diplomatic assembly. Most serious embassies in Slovenia have a second, third person who speaks a better Slovenian than I will ever be, because I am a crazy non-talent for the dictionary. When I asked the lady at the Japanese Embassy, I would not be rude to hear you speak so well. The answer was short, with a smile — that is how we do it. I would like to talk here about foreign policy because the expert on such matters and international relations and the President of the National Assembly said that our foreign policy needed criticism. Perhaps you would ask Mr Karl Erjavac how many people from 650 are learning farsi, how many young diplomats are learning Arabic, why have we closed the embassy in Tehran, where they are studying good diplomats, why we don't have more people in Vienna, because they are again studying future good diplomats in practice. And we don't need to remember any "third husband" and Orson Welles. I will first briefly process Mr Erjavac himself and then, of course, foreign policy. I hope Karl Victor won't be offended. We're pretty much the same style of communication I'm playing in the National Assembly. Mr Karl Viktor even his career, although he was born at the beginning of the decade, at the end of the day, both of us often take serious subjects for a joke, a joke. My personal opinion is that this is somewhat less appropriate or should be used less often if you are an external minister. As I listened and thought about it today, I remembered the old proverb, saying it was Hasidic — that words should be weighed to weigh the words of the Hasidites. It seems to me that in today's debate and in some public statements, in particular in such areas, we are underestimating these words. It would somehow come out of this debate today, but I will not defend Mr Erjavac, because I think he should step down after that arbitration debacle because he is formally an objectively responsible person in the ministry that runs him. I am not going to say what people from the Ministry have said in closed sessions and where else; I am not going to say what two young politicians have said at the council today, because this belongs to some professional deontology. But if I go back to the topic of interpolation, it seems to me that we do have a problem when Mr Karl Viktor with a personal style slightly undermines the function that he somehow performs, and also with some event at the Ministry. You won't believe it. There are not only voters in Mladika, but sympathizers in the United Left, and we have someone in Mladika. Karl's opening his mouth. That's right. I'm young enough and old enough, I'm a generation of Istok Mirošič from college, so I even know a little of these people from those times. And first, I'm going to touch the frame-up, the Vivod affair, the Kojc affair. Career diplomats have a bit of a hard time swallowing it, according to your household, if you're serious about it, you've been creating for so many years; someone so little past fly, a unionist could say more. The problem of Mr Golob will be addressed at the 17th regular session. If I were strict, I could say, and there was a violation of Article 76 of the Constitution, it was a violation of an important convention. But like I said, we'll talk about it at the next session. We've got some personnel issues. You said, "such little things." Mr Petrovec wrote a while ago, he said: If we look at it this way, one would feel that Slovenian diplomats are the most dishonest. Which is unfair to the vast majority, large cohorts of people who co-create Slovenian foreign policy. But apparently, some human resources choices, to put it mildly, were awkward. Perhaps this is also the result of the Coalition this year very much uses the word debirocratisation, reducing bureaucratic barriers. [[…]] Such personnel matters may require that our undernourished representatives abroad deal too much with some bureaucracy. There's probably a culture, a culture of mistrust because of this pressure. Probably another third person has something smarter to do than to report to Ljubljana whether he can buy twenty-four glasses for champagne; if I'm very direct. Of course, it bothers me to speak freely – I do not care how Croatia reacts. Let's leave it aside that half my family lives on the Croatian side. I am also very personally interested in these matters being settled. I am pleased, however, that we finally have a quality career diplomat for the Embassy in Zagreb, which I met last night when I went to the opening of an exhibition in the organisation of the foreign ministry. And that's how we talk about some damage to taxpayers. Well, I could mention some of the amounts of Mr Golobe already mentioned, which must be paid out of the budget hole, if I may put it that way. There are, of course, other harm, not only those that we see in a kind of direct way, we look at in the budget. I am very fond of thinking, much smarter people than I am in Slovenia, Mrs Alenko Zupančič, the first lady of Slovenian lacanovity. Lately, lacanoes have been walking around theaters. And she kind of said this: philosophers look at things with minds. Not the kind of little prince we used to use when we flirted in high school with some lady. And I don't think I'd want to be unfair to a lot of good people working on the Youth, so that we might be a little short-minded; and in foreign policy and in a whole other kind of policy. That we also lack some positive staffing; that we consider who is fit for any function. That we also lack some awareness that we are carrying out a mission. Mr Horvat, with Mr Logar, and my colleague Banet, we are doing so-called parliamentary diplomacy many times. And when I go abroad, I don't roll like I do here. Very frankly. And clearly, when I represent the positions of Slovenia and represent them, if they do not conform to the views of the United Left, this also means that I will be a bit of a peacemaker, in a dignified way. And as has already been warned, we are all foreign policy after all. Foreign policy is also that you may go to Parliament at least a drink, and someone who is formally employed at the Ministry and working for the Secret Service will approach you. Will you know how to behave? This is also a part of the problem where we have a narrow throat in us and which has made this arbitral breakdown a little easier. The vast majority of the Slovenian government does not use – perhaps now you have improved – cryptography of telephony and so on. These are some things we need to talk about. There is a lot of talk about economic diplomacy, these things need some time to run; but, as colleague Dobovšek has already said, it is surprising when you go to see some balance sheets. We have two exhibitions in Brazil, the exchange is relatively small. Good, because you can say that you can't exactly work with Brazil or something like Slovakia, with the Czech Republic, if you're part of a car cluster; but you probably expect some better results. We should probably also talk about the fact that the world has not been Eurocentric for a long time. Somehow today there were nine and a half hours talking about one and a half actors – America, little Russia, China. But if we were to talk seriously about the refugee crisis, what's going on because of Boko Haram, how many people are moving from Niger and Nigeria and where they're moving up. It seems to me that on this segment, as far as I know, the Ministry of Human Resources has been fed. Perhaps my generation colleague Šterbenc should have worked in the Ministry for at least 15 years because man has a photographic memory and because he is also a top analyst for this area. How are we going to solve this problem and "screw it" if I put it that way?Oh, my God! These are the things I would like to discuss here – how will we strengthen the parts of the foreign ministry dealing with non-European countries; will we open a diplomatic office in Malaysia, for example? What I've been listening to today, I'm very unfair to Tchaikovsky, I apologize to the one from the Russian embassy who has to monitor it because it's a little unfair "pathetic" named. This here, of course, is a pathetic thing. We who are on the opposition's side are a little more critical. On the side of the coalition, I was told what was going on here, what wasn't done. I know all this because we're covering foreign policy issues with our colleague Vatovec in the United Left. Even if I go abroad, at first I was for a lot of surprises, if I go somewhere, I'm not just going to get a diary that probably doesn't even cover the costs, as Mr says. But I'm going to stand up for something. It's also part of diplomacy. Of course, it is also at the level of intersectoral cooperation. Most countries have inherited this matter, because of such and other matters it is as it is. I remember a meeting, which the committee has already been, probably for European affairs. When the lady from the foreign ministry came, Jani was still in the opposition. And it doesn't fly so much to him, but maybe I'll have to walk somewhere in politics, into some other party; but the lady came, it was about quotas, pork, up, down. Russia, we kind of pushed it, and at first she cried a little bit that she didn't have the authority to make political statements, and then she said, "You know, they hung this farm up 14 days ago, and I'm covering that and that." These are just some of the things we have in this department. Probably not, perhaps because of the political tactics within the party, any of which has already been mentioned, that in some civil dislocated unit for a while you may put aside two, three top-ranking high-end career diplomats who will be there a little boredom, perhaps even a little from the egotrip. And you know, I never really thought that I would be involved in diplomacy, even in that form. Personally, this is the only exam I've ever done on the pre-graduate level with a six, international relations with Butcher. That was the most boring thing in the universe to me. Maybe some didactics, but let's just let it stop. But it is not normal for you to open a central officer in this country, where an offended diplomat has something to do, that then some top-notch diplomat in the readers' letters answers who was a diplomat or ambassador in London, in Rome, even though he was not directly addressed, I don't need to be an old gravel like anyone else here to know that this is not being done in diplomacy; and folk growls. When I go to these receptions, they approach me, I don't force myself forward; if the session were closed here, I'd say something else. Not all of this is Karl Erjavac's butter, but Karl Erjavec is the first man in this department to handle it with his team. And these are the things I wanted to talk about here. But we didn't announce a double time because I already knew in advance how ready that was to be something my students would say, unfortunately, beating. Now I'm gonna stop because if the session is closed, I need about five more minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u148	Mr Jan Mahnic has the word; they should prepare themselves for the Mag. Andrej Kavčič and Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues of Members, Members of Parliament, the Council of Ministers! If I agree with Minister Erjavec in any way, it is by saying at the outset that he is not the only one responsible for how Slovenia leads foreign policy. There is definitely a part of the responsibility here for us Members, on the President of the State, on the other ministers. But today it is an interpolation about it and it is an interpolation about the policy that it is or is supposed to lead. I might lean a little on this Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. When the strategy was adopted, we have a very important address – Slovenia: safe, successful and in the world and in the world respected. And this is supposed to be some kind of direction, what we want to achieve, what we want to be; but let's say it's the opposite. With regard to security, we know what the situation is. I agree, until recently, Slovenia has been a safe country. And in this area, because we all said we were safe, then we fell asleep in the area of security, and now we are not adequately prepared for the challenges ahead. Slovenia as a safe country, and if we leave hybrid, cybernetic and other types of irregular conventional warfare, the first red alarms should ring when Russia attacked Ukraine and annexed Crimea. The war began in a country that is only 500 kilometers away from Slovenia. I'm talking from a point at the Hungarian border to a point at the Ukrainian border, from an air distance. Instead of following some of the measures followed by the other countries – I agree with what has already been said, Slovenia also made clear at that time how it feels about the matter, but still – we have continued to follow some of the ways that I would say were too prophetic. I have nothing against Russia, I have nothing against the Russian people, but I cannot agree with the way the Russian President is currently running the country. And then it didn't do what it was supposed to do. I am also a permanent member of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly, NATO. I go abroad a lot, we talk, and those real talks are mostly informal; not when we sit at the table, when the polite diplomatic issues are. All of you who have been abroad know that the essence then happens so called off the record. And that's where I often get questions, not too specific, but mostly in terms of what's going on with Slovenia. Slovenia was a successful country, a respected country, economically, economically and diplomatically. Somehow the majority of Slovenia reached the first half of 2008 when it led the 500 million-million-dollar European Union, and then slowly came this economic crisis, we went into a flood in the economic field, we went into a flood in the security field, and consequently we went into a flood in the diplomatic field. I also agree with Erjavc that diplomats are both left and right. No one has any problem with this, they know what it is like to work for the Republic of Slovenia. I can say that whenever I met any Slovenian ambassador, when I was abroad, you probably have all these notes of conversation, which is also their task, I had no negative feelings, I did not get some negative opinions; however, it is only necessary to distinguish between different countries, what the role is currently. So much for safety. Second; Slovenia: a safe, successful and respected country in the world. And that's a safe and successful denominator for me. If we are safe and successful, then we are respected in the world. And it is from these discussions that Slovenia is normally respected as a country, but unfortunately Slovenia is no longer a factor that could contribute to some real themes. I believe that the Minister's attempt, probably because of his publicity, to offer himself as a mediator between Russia and the West, was inadequate. We are part of the West, we are part of the European Union, we are part of the NATO alliance, we are no longer unlisted. Someone who's part of a system where this mediation is supposed to be going on can't be a mediator. We have also adopted the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, where we have written down, above all, desires, which are far from reality. We have written here that we will strengthen the reputation and visibility of the Republic of Slovenia as a safe, economically successful Central European and maritime state. Recognition; for recognition we can speak, we have been recognized in recent times especially when there was a scandal, we were recognized when protests against migrants occurred, we were recognized as one of the countries in which the Schengen fell, which is also due to the fact that the Schengen fell. However, I hope that now the policy will go forward so that Slovenia will be recognised as the country that stopped this migratory flow. And as I follow the press conferences attended by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I especially miss something when the Minister makes a comment, he always makes a summary of what happened there, in short, to do the job of a journalist. However, I am interested in what the views of Slovenia have been. How much Slovenia is heard there, how active is Slovenia there? Security; each migration brings with it a security problem, a quote from the Minister of the Interior at one of the previous meetings. I very much agree with this, and every migration raises security issues as well. So much more is a security issue; migration is more complex. I see these migrations as some consequence of hybrid warfare mainly from the Russian side, and we talk a lot about it in Nate, and I believe that the Russians are also well informed. Those of us who were once with the KNOVS in Owl know what the picture is like, how intelligence services work. It would be good for all Members to be aware of this, because we know that we are also Members of the interesting intelligence services in this way or another way, I am not just talking about Russia, and of course others. There are often questions about what is going on in Slovenia, how you are in Slovenia with security; even when rumors have begun to appear that migrants are supposed to be fighters and fighters of the Islamic State. More than 5,000 Europeans went to the Islamic State also across our territory. When we proposed to amend the Penal Code in the Slovenian Democratic Party to stop them, you said that these acts were all criminalised. 14 days ago, the Justice Committee gave a green light to amend the Penal Code because it was obvious that this year and a half that these acts were not incriminated; and they also wanted to incriminate acts of participation in foreign terrorist fighting in the Penal Code. And now these people are coming back, coming along the Balkan route, Slovenia acted as a transport company in this migratory crisis and we let these people go without any serious checks. And when the next terrorist attacks are in Europe, believe me, the path of these migrants will always be announced if any of these migrants carry out a terrorist attack, commit any other unloving event, an incident; they always announce where it came from. And unfortunately, Slovenia is also on these maps. I believe that everything cannot be stopped, however, if we were to act more appropriately in this crisis – also Minister Erjavec was one or still an integral member of this team dealing with the migration crisis in Slovenia – if our response were more appropriate, I believe that things would be different. The operation of the Republic of Slovenia, we have written down, the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia as an equal, credible and responsible member of the international community, which actively assumes its share of responsibility for ensuring international peace and security and advocates universal respect for the principles of peaceful settlement of disputes. As far as we have contributed to international peace and security in this House, we have been speaking for the past two months. You can read a number of articles about what we then think, how much we contribute. It is definitely to commend our role, as far as the Triglav is concerned, that it has also been a welcome move by the government, and we have supported this, in concrete terms, not only with words of support, but also with concrete actions that have helped the international coalition. I received a direct response from ours and also from foreign representatives that they were pleased to say that Slovenia had finally made one concrete move. And they also told me that it was so much more important because this decision was taken in Parliament without a vote against. These are the concrete actions I expect from this government. If you're afraid of what people will say, I think this fear is too much. I would agree here with Minister Erjavac, and I am already saying this in this House. Security dimensions have changed, he compared his ministerial mandate to the current situation. It was true at the time, remember the debates that were in Parliament, this blame for the situation as it is now when I speak of security, especially to military power; the media also bear a large part of the responsibility. Whenever the defence budget was raised, whenever it had to be cut in the budget, it always went; social, health, education, here you take; the military can take even more. This has led to certain consequences, but we still have enough old weapons, we have well-trained soldiers, and such moves would be expected earlier. I hope that now that we have sent these people, we have corrected the mistake that I think was also a crackdown in foreign policy when the foreign minister and the Prime Minister of the Government were a little surprised to see how they put us on the list of an international coalition fighting against Daesh. I don't know if it was coordinated or if it wasn't coordinated when the United States published the list of 57 countries, but the reaction was wrong, the reaction of Slovenian foreign policy was wrong, even if they didn't ask us. We are committed in our documents to the fight against terrorism and we should be pleased that they have given us, but not that it is then problematic and ask us again what has changed in Slovenia. Ensuring international peace is not self-evident and requires concrete action. If we are speaking specifically about the NATO relationship, we are constantly talking about this in Parliament about our unfortunate defence budget, then we can say that we are primarily a consumer and we can give nothing back. And again, it's a bad promise for the future, and it's in connection with security. I doubt that they will be most pleased to see our Central Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia, where it says that only after 2018 will there be more funding for our defence and security system, despite the fact that some reserves are still more cost-effective in dealing with real estate and other matters. There is also an impact on foreign policy and I would also expect a greater involvement of the foreign minister here. I know he's not the Secretary of Defense, but I know he's a damn good negotiator. And I'm sure if he were now the Secretary of Defense, the budget would be higher. It also says here what is funny, strengthening the visibility and role of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO. Strengthening visibility – you are doing well, visible in Nat, we are definitely, in the first or second place in a negative sense, unfortunately. Every time we have an annual session, it's spring, once it's autumn, we get a graph of the NATO Member States, their percentage of GDP they're earmarking for defence, and the structure of this defence budget. And as far as the percentage of GDP we give for defence is concerned, one or two countries are worse than us; but as far as structure is concerned, we are in the last place. This also strengthens the reputation and is in some ways the result of this foreign policy, which Slovenia has, which Slovenia leads. Strengthening transatlantic cooperation on the basis of common values and mutual interests, in particular with the principal transatlantic ally, with the United States of America – here, Mr Minister, but I have one concrete question for you. I don't know if I got the right information or not, you'll probably confirm it. Is it true that last year you received an invitation to visit the United States of America and that you did not respond to this invitation? Does that hold? If not, then so much better; but if so, I wonder what the reason was. I also want to know how many bilateral contacts you had with Western countries last year. You know, it hurts me when someone in Nate tells me that I know who I'm with, whether you've already decided whether you're here now or whether you're with the Russians. Uroš, these are real questions, they ask us when someone is going to a military parade in Moscow; not to say how I felt the last time we talked, when they heard Putin was supposed to come to Slovenia this year. The country under the embargo knows what status Vladimir Putin has in the world at the moment; and I hear that we will now be around Kranjska Gora all the roads and what I know what else to asphalt when the Russian President arrives. This will be another fiasco in view of the position we are currently in – members of NATO and members of the European Union. I have no problem, even European leaders are meeting Putin, but we saw in Belarus, when the processes concerning Ukraine took place, it also came to Normandy, but it was then a multilateral, and this is a bilateral visit. I wonder if you can confirm this already, whether Vladimir Putin is really coming to Slovenia this year, and if you have already received any responses from your colleagues, ministers, diplomats. Because of me, you can answer that in a closed session because I know what the answers are. Here we have also written down the fight against extremism and terrorism, including the setting of circumstances that can lead to radicalisation. Again, we are on this issue of migration. The question of how to deal with this was in the government, the Minister was the leader of the coordination group, and this is also part of the foreign policy. At some point, Austria even began to exclude us from this circle of Central European countries, and at that time I also lacked determination. In short, there's a lot of reasons for this interpretation to be written. I did not rely so much on interpretation as I actually did on some of the points that Slovenian state policy should be; unfortunately, it is not. And given that in the last four years, when somehow led under this leadership, although everything depends on the government, it is true that Mr Minister was also a minister during the second Janshe government; but it was a pro-European government, that was a government that was mainly made up of pro-European parties. And the direction was clear – pro-Western, pro-American, pro-European. Once again, and this is also NATO's position, it is clear why economic sanctions against Russia are being imposed, it is clear that neither NATO nor the West is an enemy of Russia. And it must be made clear that if Mr Putin admits by such moves that Russia is a failed state, he wants to join the society of these successful advanced countries in order to have to adopt certain rules. Russia has the status it has, Russia is not the savior, but it is just someone who is causing problems in Syria. Only around 14, 15% of the facilities bombed in Syria are bombed by the Islamic State; all the rest are objects and targeted by the opposition – schools, health homes, that about the hybrid army of Russia, where Slovenia is an extremely successful target, even thanks to the foreign minister and the policy it leads, I am not speaking at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u150	Before I give the floor forward, I would like to say for the record that I mistakenly renamed Mr Daniel Krivec Mr Matvež Krivec; Mag. And Alexander Kavčič to Mr Andre Kavčič. I sincerely apologize to everyone involved. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you very much. First of all, I am obliged to respond if I have received an invitation to visit the United States of America. There was no such invitation. However, I must say that I often meet with Secretary of State John Kerry at the margins of various conferences, during the United Nations General Assembly, during the NATO meeting. How many visits were made last year? I must say that we had bilateral meetings with France, Belgium, Spain, the Holy See, Austria, Italy, Hungary, Germany, Great Britain; I speak for EU members only last year. However, there were 216 bilateral meetings in the mandate. As far as I'm concerned, she invited Mr. Putin. First of all, before the Ukrainian crisis, I must say that it has been agreed with the Russian side that the 100th anniversary of the Russian Chapel will be properly marked; by a visit by the President of the Russian Federation and a ceremony will be held at the highest national level. And it was agreed to increase depending on the function. The visit of Prime Minister Medvedev last year was in the sense of this enlarging until the 100th anniversary. I must say, when the Prime Minister of Medvedev was here, there was no special reaction from the Member States of NATO and EU members; they were aware of this and, of course, they do not mind if these discussions take place in the sense of a constructive dialogue. It is important to know that all countries have these bilateral contacts. Economic sanctions do not mean that there is no longer any contact; but economic sanctions mean that certain transactions with the Russian Federation are no longer possible. As for this year's visit, I must say it's not confirmed yet. At this point, I cannot confirm whether the President of the Russian Federation, Mr Vladimir Putin, will attend the ceremony. But once again, I would warn you that this is a five - act, a memory from World War I, where there was a large number of dead on the Russian side, and it is a pure five - day event. With regard to Ukraine, I must say that we very clearly respect the economic sanctions imposed by the European Union. I must say that we are actively involved here by foreign ministers when it comes to the scope of economic sanctions and when it comes to extending these economic sanctions. It is true, however, that this European Council, the real Presidents of the governments and the Presidents of the countries, are then taking a final decision. As far as Ukraine is concerned, I have said several times today that our position is exactly the same as that of the European Union, to challenge the entry of Russian forces into Crimea, to defend Ukraine's integrity, Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Here our views are quite clear. With regard to the relationship, however, I must say that the government will have to move things around here in the sense that the contribution to the defence system in particular will have to be increased. This is also being discussed within the government. The police will also need to be provided with additional funds. Because if we have been dealing with the economic crisis in the past, in particular because of the high unemployment rate, it is now time to strengthen the defence and security system, because it is clear that there will be no quick political solution in the neighbourhood regarding the Ukrainian crisis; even less when we are talking about the crises in the southern Mediterranean, Syria, Iraq, then the tensions between Palestine and Israel, Libya, that I will not continue to speak then – Chad, Mali and so on. It is likely that in the balance sheet of the 2017 budget, the starting points for the preparation of the budget will be taken into account as well by the international security situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alexander Kavčič, prepare the mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much, very much for your word. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I would focus on the dictated interpretation of the work and responsibilities of Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac when he said that the network of diplomatic and consular representations is weak and does not suit Slovenian strategic economic interests according to its structure. But as Minister Erjavac's reply to the interpretation explained that Slovenia has 52 diplomatic and consular representations, it is also unequivocally stressed that it was certainly useful and welcome to expand the network; in particular in areas where there are no Slovenian representations. The fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted conclusions on the closure of the Embassy in Dublin, Stockholm, Helsinki, Lisbon and Tehran in 2012 and 2013. Of course, new, additional financial resources that have not been made available in recent years are required to open new representations. Maybe someone's wondering why Tehran did, too. Let me briefly summarize a piece about a half-lived history that is very interesting. In 1979 there was a revolution in Iran. These events were followed by an international embargo on the purchase of Iranian oil, which was then one of the most important sources of funding for them. The former Yugoslavia was not included in the embargo and concluded an agreement on the so-called barter business, oil for Yugoslav products, which were in the vast majority of Slovenian products. In recent years, however, Slovenia has slowly withdrawn from Iran because of its determined insistence on its path, which did not correspond nearly to Western forces, even as one of the axes of evil. And it often referred to the possibility of armed intervention, and the reason for it would be the development of a nuclear programme. During this time, many former Slovenian exporters in Iran failed or withdrew from the region. However, the good name of the Slovenian economy remains. The good name Slovenia maintained, unfortunately with one very important exception – the closure of the Embassy of Slovenia in Tehran, which was carried out on 20 March 2013. The closure of the embassy is supposed to be due to a reduction in costs, which is certainly not the only reason. At home, too, they need the same employment spaces, wages and other emergency costs, and at the same time do not acquire diplomatic experience that could be gained in Iran as an extremely vibrant diplomatic cross. In view of the current foreign policy position, the closure was partly understandable, as we have identified the strong allies of those who put Iran in the axis of evil and Iran as a depraved state. This proved to be a fine demonstration of what it means to be an old country and what it means to be young. Iran, which has been in existence for more than a thousand years, knows that many connections are temporarily changing, even radically, and has clearly estimated that hostility to the Western world, in the historical context, is relatively short of breath. Much longer-term disagreements are between sewing and sunbathing. When the Sunite extremists threatened Western countries, the Iranians gained a common enemy with them in a sense. A common enemy does not yet mean mutual friendship, but it does create cooperation. Slovenia closed the embassy in Iran at the time, and Iran opened it in Slovenia. For this year, however, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has in the budget the financial resources provided for the re-opening of the Embassy in Tehran. Our economic delegation under the leadership of Minister Počvalska, who was visiting Tehran earlier this year, has somehow refocused the path that these two countries have already had. The so-called Iranian-Slovenia Business Forum was launched, at which the Minister recalled the successful cooperation between the countries in the past and set a target of restoring the trade volume of 2011, amounting to almost EUR 100 million. It is also noted that Iran is one of the most economically and politically powerful countries and is the gateway to the countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, and important transport routes across Iran are also taking place in the West. Ladies and gentlemen, the closures of the embassies, which were typical of previous governments, are now changing. The Republic of Slovenia will open an embassy in Tehran this year, where policy plays an important role in making business. Following a June agreement on Iran's nuclear programme, several European ministers with economic delegations visited Iran. This year, when we're opening an embassy in Tehran, the big ones are already rotting there. As a result, reports from the interpolation on the weak network of diplomatic and consular representations are likely to point to previous governments. The economic diplomacy system was laid by Minister Erjavec, Minister of Restivalšek and, of course, also by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the basis for increasing Slovenian exports and trade exchanges, so I will not support such a proposal for interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Let Mr. Ivan Škodnik prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to Minister Erjavac with colleagues and other ministers and ministers! It is perfectly self-evident that the coalition defends its minister, not only that, but in fact everything. However, I hope, fellow Members of the Coalition, that you will also listen to what is said about certain mistakes, problems; that you will at least try to fix these things further. I'll start with the new Member of the House in Desus, that's with Mr Wilphan. In fact, I was shocked when I was here in the National Assembly to learn that on 29 June 2015, when he was a member of our Group, he was convicted. In fact, no one knew anything about this, and apparently this would be the case if someone did not ask if you felt that there was anything at stake, perhaps the right things could be revealed. However, I find it extremely unfair that I, as the president of the party and my colleagues in the parliamentary group, have not been warned by word or by word of mouth that any proceedings against him are ongoing; and even less that he was convicted on 29 June. Of course, I would like to know, Mr Erjavec, what do you say to all of this, because in public you have already moralized many times, how certain procedures run against certain people and, of course, they are not competent persons to discuss such or other things. And I'm also asking my colleagues at SMC. In Kranju SMC, specifically SMC, requires the mayor's resignation, but has not yet been convicted, did not cause a traffic accident with serious bodily injuries; so much to begin. I hope that Matthew Tonin will forgive me for saying that nothing really works for me like James Bond, which you attributed to him; but many times I feel like I'm in another movie, a respected minister, when I listen to your statements, that's that movie, Mr. Bean. I do not know if these statements are appropriate for the Minister for Foreign Affairs; the fact is that you use them practically even your political career. Apparently, they are successful in Slovenia or people are still falling for them. One of them was — what do Janša and Pahor have in common? Karla Erjavc. And even such statements could be listed. The fact is, since 2000, 2002 you have been in Slovenian politics. And the fact is that you are actually the entire period in governments, from 2004 to today, is said to be 12 years old by Karl Erjavec, Minister for Various Areas. Many times we find and roll from the left and right that in the past something has been done wrong; whether the lions are guilty or are the right ones – Karl Erjavec has always been here and Desus has always been here. I have already said many times, and I repeat today that I am confident that even without Desus in the government or in the governments of pensioners there would be nothing worse. But I'm going to add here that I'm surprised to hear that you've been a very correct coalition partner in my coalition. Probably not because of any special sympathy for me, but because you were very aware of the situation at the time and what would happen to the pensioners if things didn't work out. But the fact is that pensions in Slovenia only fell nominally once, in 2012, to a certain segment of people; and then with the help of Desus. That's a fact we can't change. However, as far as foreign policy is concerned, with much that has been said, I can agree with the many things that have been said, and I do not agree. But I was the first one in this National Assembly to ask who will take responsibility for what is happening to our arbitration and the problems in this regard. This answer has not yet been received in open or closed sessions. Minister, I sincerely wish, I sincerely wish that everything that has happened would not harm the arbitration process and that the arbitration is concluded as we all want. But who do you think should be held accountable if things go wrong? That's a question I'd like to get an answer to. I would also like to receive an answer to the question – the attitude towards Members who are legally convicted. And another small thing, although you will believe that I do not like to warm it myself, but many things that are not true, that I will not use your word of lies, you have told the public about the procedure that was going on with the Slovenian Commissioner. A lot of untruths. This is not the best thing for the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. I feel it's my duty to remind future debaters of something. Since my dear colleague, Comrade Kavčič, spoke of opening the embassy, he specifically mentioned one of them: to warn that we will not be in violation, colleague and colleague, the process of opening and also closing the embassy runs with the material that the PSC receives under the designation "confidential", so we were in the basement. The decision we have adopted is not to speak publicly about it, and it has the designation "internal". I hope I have not abused this procedural proposal and warned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well-known ministers, ministers, colleagues and fellow Members! This morning, when we began this meeting, Mr Erjavec was delighted to begin this meeting. It was okay when he greeted his constituents, wished his mother the best for her birthday. I'll get started. I hope that we are aware that we are now in post-time and that we should be able to do something more useful at that time; we have burned for the wrong things one day. So much for the next time, I'm sorry. Let's get to the more serious point. Slovenian foreign policy, as has been made clear several times today, is certainly leading the Minister in the centre. And I think our minister, as a representative of the Government of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is doing it very well, exemplaryly and, I think, excellently. Of course, there is the President of the Government, the President of the National Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Policy. In the beginning, something was said through the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. I'm not going to criticize him, because my colleague Horvath knows me very well, and we work together, and sometimes he supports me, and I think I'll ever do it. I do, however, think that I must say when Mr Minister said that if some things go so badly in the foreign ministry, why there were no extraordinary meetings on the Foreign Policy Committee. I agree with that, although I am not a member of this committee, but I do not understand. I think that these things will go better in the future and that certain things can be solved there if something is wrong. It's a shame we spent the whole day on it. Well, I hope you understand me, Mr. Horvath. I'm going ahead, arbitration, I'm not going to go into details here, but I think, as far as I've been aware of this thing, of course, the most negative have been done by the media. But what Mr Erjavec actually said here and made statements, I think there was nothing wrong and that he was actually working for the good of Slovenia, so I support him here and I think he did nothing wrong. As far as staffing is concerned, all governments and all ministers have always been staffed in the past, and of course this will be the case in the future. And I tell you, if I were a minister, I would certainly replace certain people in the first place, because at certain ministries today we also find that it is difficult to work; I will not go into details here, but it is a perfectly normal matter. Weekend – I will not comment here because today has weekends, in fact, people, average workers. I'm not going to say that now is the second time that probably now is not being invested by those who are average, now things have changed. But if we look 30 years ago, when weekends in neighbouring Croatia were much bought or built, there are many Slovenians there and they built mainly those who lived and lived in blocks. I didn't live on the block, I built a house, and I never had that need. And I realize that some of the assets that someone invests on the weekend are small funds; and it's a waste of time to discuss here. But if we talk about some villas that are multimillion - dollar worth — they are and some of them have, and they are somehow taken away, or built, or bought abroad — we do not touch or talk about them. The refugee crisis, too, has been a matter of speech and, certainly, Minister Erjavec within the Government and, of course, other ministries, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, has been involved at all times in the resolution of this crisis. I think these things are doing very well, because things on the ground indicate that the situation is being handled very well. In fact, there are no such things as someone would say to him that something was going wrong; and thank God. But who was two years ago when the elections were held, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u160	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u161	He knew what awaited us at this time that we would deal with this refugee crisis for so long. [[...]] Another matter is very interesting here that in the then government in 2012 it was you who put Mr Erjavac in the position of Minister for Foreign Affairs. You've probably estimated that it's real and that it works well, and I think you were right. And now I don't know what's wrong, that all of a sudden it doesn't work anymore. Even in the period 2004-2008, when he was Minister of Defence in the Janšev government, he obviously worked very well. When I look at the data, it was deliberately invested in the defence of 1.7% of GDP, which is now significantly different. But we do know that at the time it was like this, but today it's different. And if he had been doing bad work at the time, he probably wouldn't have been re-elected minister in 2012. I'd say we all have one country together, and we're not aware of that. We are aware that this country is ours; if we are to be heard in an international environment where we are among small countries, then we must stand firm with the decisions we make if we are to achieve anything. Finally, I would say that I will not support interpolation because the basis for this is, in fact, a completely different purpose; namely, destabilisation of the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Alexander Kavčič, followed by Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I repeat to my respectable colleague Joseph Horvath. The Minister's reply to the Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs states on page 15 that the Republic of Slovenia has planned funds for the opening of the Embassy in Tehran this year; so I have not divulged any secrets. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In my view, the priority of foreign policy should be, above all, economic contacts with foreign countries and, as a result, an appropriate number of diplomatic and economic representations should be organised accordingly. The fact is that the Slovenian economy generates 70% of gross domestic product on foreign markets and that the functioning of the country depends on the economy; and, of course, this data is mainly the economy that works in foreign markets. This is particularly important because we are in a time of economic and financial crisis. Between 2009 and 2012, we lost 59 thousand jobs in Slovenia due to the economic and financial crisis. This is a serious issue that certainly gives priority to the functioning of foreign policy as well. And when I read the interpretation against the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Erjavac, I did not follow this observation, if I may say so. However, I have noted in this text a very clear warning, and the interpellations' proponents say: "The key question is how our foreign policy is assessed and perceived by countries within associations such as the European Union, NATO and the United Nations. I must admit that this position is of great concern to me because this makes it clear that our foreign policy must be subordinated to the interests of the European Union, NATO and the United Nations. I would expect us to put first the interest of Slovenia, of Slovenian foreign policy, which, of course, we are trying to apply within the European Union, within NATO and within the United Nations. And if we also analyze the European Union and ask ourselves what is evident in the interpretation that the management of the Foreign Minister is improvised, inconsistent, unclear, disproportionate and so on; what foreign policy does the European Union have? Can we assess that it is uniform, that it is clear that it is transparent, that the European Union knows how to exercise its interests in the international space? And if I connect with the security issue – Does it also have a crystalline, clear security policy? In all of these discussions, which we have been following over the past period and which are mainly linked to the migration crisis, the answer can be that the European Union does not have a single foreign policy, does not have a single security policy. The position of the European Union to assess the functioning of our foreign policy, and then what assessment can be made by an institution that does not have crystallised views within itself, how to operate in these extremely difficult international circumstances. And if I touch NATO in this context, the issue of cooperation between the European Union and NATO is not cleared. Within the European Union, Slovenia has a very clear commitment to monitor public financial parameters in a way that, of course, reduces public spending in the country. And if we do not do so, Slovenia will be penalised by the European Commission, paying penalties, restrictions; we must also not make certain aid to our companies to the extent possible, precisely because of these restrictions. And as we monitor the implementation of the Maastricht criteria, which are even more binding for us, because we also have the euro, we will come to a very large disharmony, if I may say so, between the European Union's demands to reduce public consumption to Slovenia, and between NATO's demands to strongly increase public spending on security from less than one percent of gross domestic product, they expect 2%. If we do this, it will be a very big hall, if I may say so, within the European Union – you have made your public finances worse because you have given too much money to the police, the military, the intelligence and security services and so on. In short, the functioning of these institutions is not harmonised. And if we listen then and our criteria are what the European Union gives us, what assessment NATO gives us, you can't actually come to a unique conclusion, what should we do? If I also assess the functioning of the UN and given the current situation in which the world is, and to the greatest extent, the Middle East and the European Union, we must ask ourselves whether the United Nations has cleared up the issue of the attack on Iraq. As a result of this attack, the Middle East crisis, which also spread to Syria, also led to an attack and a collapse of power in Libya. And today we are facing an extremely difficult situation in Europe that Europe is not prepared for. But I believe that in this context, the United Nations should really clean up as soon as possible and give a clear assessment of why Iraq was attacked and who had an interest in this happening. Without these assessments, it will be difficult to say that we are following one consistent policy or that we are experiencing one direction from the European Union, NATO and the United Nations and that we know what we are doing. All of this is highlighted mainly for one reason, because if equipment is geared towards the interests of the economy and our foreign policy is focused mainly on the interests of the economy, resulting in job creation and also prosperity in Slovenia, then we can say that we have our own foreign policy. And this is what we should certainly do more speeding up and implementing than we can in the last period. It is true that Slovenia was, before its priority was to join the European Union, to join NATO. When we have achieved this, it is very important that we also analyse the situation and our options, which we have mainly for the economy within the European Union and within NATO. And here we should certainly ask ourselves what NATO also means for the Slovenian economy. We can't just agree to increase our public spending and say - yes, we'll buy so many weapons, we'll buy so many equipment, usually from the outside. Some of this is also produced in Slovenia. And the question we need to answer is how much our economy is involved in the NATO system. Then there is a remarkable market, a very large market, a very big opportunity and this is not just a military industry; this is actually everything we know to produce, because that is what those countries that are members of NATO need. And all of this is needed by the military involved in this international system of security or defence. And here, in fact, I miss the analysis that we should have in the short term if we are to have clear positions in the implementation of foreign policy in the defence field as well. And when I touch on this security policy and measures, such as those that the European Union has reached out to the United States of America and agreed on economic sanctions against the Russian Federation, it turns out from the latest estimates made by Austria that this European sanction against the Russian Federation actually generated EUR 100 billion of losses within the European Union. As a result, 2.5 million jobs were lost. Austria has made this assessment, and even when we are discussing the common foreign policy and what is a consistent, effective external policy of the European Union, we must also look at it in the European Union through the interests of the economy. And when we look at the interest of the economy, of course, the European Union is extremely important to us, and all the Member States of the European Union are extremely important to our economy. At the same time, however, we must also be aware that this is a market in which we have practically already reached the limit with which we can only deal with these countries. But we need economic growth to replace the 59 000 jobs we lost during the economic and financial crisis. Is it enough for us to be oriented only within the EU? Is it enough for us to be oriented only in cooperation with the United States of America with which we do not have such strong economic cooperation? The opportunity is certainly, say, after what I mentioned in the broader context. But where are these other opportunities for the economy? Surely they can be found in the wider area of Evrace, ranging from Russia, China and all the way to the Middle East, and this is a market that is an exceptional opportunity for the Slovenian economy. And within this system, we must establish our position. If we rely solely on the EU's position, NATO's position will not be achieved. As a result, we also experienced the closure of our embassy in Tehran, Iran, during the economic crisis. I can tell you, from the time I was president of the National Assembly and my official visit with a strong economic delegation back then in Iran, we have received extremely useful information, so what will happen when the crisis unfolds in Iraq, Syria, the consequences that Europe will have for this. This is extremely useful information for the country, so of course you can prepare yourself properly. Well, we have not yet reestablished our embassy in Tehran. Here is one of those questions that must be very serious whether this decision to close this embassy was really good. We have lost a great deal of potential for economic cooperation, we have lost great potential for good and quality information on the development of the refugee crisis and the situation in the Middle East and, consequently, the timely preparation of our country for this crisis. And when we talk about this crisis, it's probably not too much to mention that what's happening in the Middle East is not just because countries wouldn't like each other and because the leaders of countries don't know how to agree on each other, but it's certainly the interest of corporations behind. And these corporations are the ones with which we should probably also, within the framework of foreign policy, not just individual countries, but also the EU, establish contact and ask them to what extent these international corporations, if we are talking about the Middle East, are corporations that are primarily interested in oil, to what extent can we also put an account for all that is happening to us, including them. Part of this should also be burdened by these corporations, because they had an obvious interest in making themselves somewhat unstable and trying to dominate and then reach those resources that drive the world and the world economy. This mechanism is built, if I may say so, under the influence of corporations. And if we don't have our own policy and if we follow only the interests of greatness, then I think that at some point we will be able to figure out that we are otherwise discussing some issues, that we have no impact on this issue. And in this context, we must not forget that there is also a parallel trade agreement between the European Union and the United States of America in parallel to this refugee crisis and the crisis in the Middle East. In fact, the fact that Minister Erjavec should show more understanding of the factors which oppose the agreement and less understanding of those who support the agreement is also highlighted here. This agreement is certainly one of the following very serious foreign policy issues relating to the economy. And if we find that many things are likely to change in Europe due to the refugee crisis, this agreement, on the other hand, will also make major changes in the image of the European Union, the economy of the European Union and consequently the situation of the people of the European Union. I will rely on the text that is actually prepared by the Business Excellence Centre of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana, which reminds us that we can expect the most powerful negative effects of out-of-trade liberalisation mainly on agriculture, fisheries, mining and other primary activities, as well as the industry of motor vehicles and other means of transport, chemical and metal industries. Ladies and gentlemen, these are our paraded economic horses! And this warning about the negative effects should certainly be taken very seriously when we talk about how we will decide how our Members will decide in the European Parliament, and I hope that we can also decide in the national Parliament and that we will have this information at our disposal. From the point of view of the Slovenian economy, it can be a very problematic real area of protection of intellectual property rights, but this concerns our two extremely export-oriented pharmaceutical companies, Lek and Krka, that is, our two paradoxical economic horses, and the other, which is also highlighted in this study, and there is also a very public talk about how disputes between the country and the investor will be resolved. During the last period, you have been paying very much attention, and I have been warning myself for a very long time about the fact that in Slovenia we are selling our economy very cheaply. That we sell our trademarks very cheaply. Yesterday, in the question of the question of Parliament or the day before yesterday, questions about the Alps were clearly raised, mentioned Pekko, we recently discussed about Adria, and, of course, even a while ago, I also made it very clear to Telekom how important it is for the functioning of the country, but we are talking about this at the time when the National Assembly adopted a decision on the sale of these eminent brands and also some very important companies such as Telekom, right after the procedure that no one is actually asking how we will protect this intellectual property, how we will protect the trademark. There's not a single criterion in this decision how we're going to protect it. And today we ask ourselves, yes, what happens now that we lose these brands? Look, these are questions that really need to be cleared before you make any decisions, or even the decision to go and sell this kind of company. And once again, I have nothing, and I support the recapitalisation of businesses in fact, if it is to look for an investment in this company, which will modernise the industry, which will, of course, also create higher added value, resulting in better conditions for employees and, not least, higher economic growth. But if it's a cheap sale and people stay on the road, I object because it's the worst solution that's happening to us. And in this light of this trade agreement, the European Union-US, I remind you just when we sell all of this stuff, lose our jobs, we lose 59 thousand already, the investor will come and he will say, yes, I want to invest as an international corporation in Slovenia if this agreement is concluded. And the danger with these investors is that, of course, he will lay down the conditions under which he will invest. And even worse, if we consider in Slovenia that the minimum wage is too small and that this salary has to be raised, this same investor will sue Slovenia for reducing its profits. And this is not clear in this trade agreement. If the tribunals are to decide on this issue on the basis of the arbitrators, we need to know that these arbitrators are, of course, more or less funded by corporations. And all the countries that have already concluded such trade agreements from Uruguay, including Romania, have these problems, today, when international corporations are suing them for, say, raising the minimum wage for the loss of their profits. This is an outstanding foreign policy issue, for our economy, for jobs, how we will also respond to this trade agreement. We must not take it casually and say everything that is offered to us is unique. No, far from it. I would like to stress that, first of all, let us put the interest of the economy, jobs and we will have a very effective foreign policy, and we will also have a very effective functioning of the Government as a whole, and the problems we are discussing will be significantly smaller and easier to manage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Get Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you. If I understand my predecessor, Mr Weber, then he supports the interpretation. In fact, the Minister signed this agreement or mandate for the conclusion of this Agreement and delegated powers to the European Commission in June 2013. And if this is an inherent question today, then it means that since June 2013 it has not been done enough in this area. Leads, and we know who foreign policy is during this period. Now, today is essentially a sad day for Slovenian foreign policy, not for interpretation, but for the relationship of the ruling coalition to the perceptions that are exposed to this interpretation. Now the debate has calmed down a little, because obviously the coalition MPs are already tired, but look, in that first period of time, I got the feeling that Mr Horvat's PDO leader is interpelling, not Minister Karl Erjavac. Today we did not listen to some imaginary interpretation just like that, today we listened to a very reasoned presentation by the head or chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Dear Members, we are all members of one branch of government, of the parliamentary branch of power, and in some ways our foreign minister, the Foreign Minister of Parliament, in the translated sense of the word, has expressed criticism to the Foreign Minister of the other branch of power, reasoned, presented with documentary evidence and visual models. And what was the answer to that interpolation? Personal reports, attacks, and words that don't belong to this hall. The Minister said just before the interpretation there in the lobby that this was another lost day in order to propose some legislative proposals. Dear coalition, in this reference to this mandate at this meeting, we concluded the regular session of Parliament in two days because you did not simply propose any law because you clearly lack the imagination to change what in Slovenia. And now you're reading that instead of adopting laws that you don't propose for yourself, we're going to go into interpolation and tarnishing on how terrible it is to spend so much time discussing it and the loudest are those who then debate or read it the most. This is usually the case, at least in some normal democracy, if the impressions of interpolation are presented, then in defending this evidence is killed in some way or they are confronted with concrete arguments, i.e. by presenting successes, by presenting a vision, by presenting the past work. But in common with all the coalition Members in this interpretation, it was only that you attacked the interpellationers. You even attacked the interpellationers by somehow trying to blink one and the other to create some kind of controversy between the two parties who signed this interpolation. It's like it's supposed to defend the Foreign Minister. He'll defend the Foreign Minister if he defends him, the voting machine. And the problem with this country and this democracy is that, although you have previously advocated something else, Members of this coalition have become, I will say, the most credible voting machine in the history of Slovenian democracy. [[adverts from benches]] Look at the vote, you have not even accepted any amendments to the budget, and this was the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. In some ways, I find it very interesting to monitor this rebirth of the coalition, for example, to New Slovenia. As long as you had the feeling that, say, SDS and Nova Slovenija had some friction between you, you praised New Slovenia a lot, you starved a lot, you talked a lot about how special they were. Today, when the president of the PSC presents the reasoned interpretation, hoh, it's all wrong, you disappoint us, look, this is not what we expected of you. This means that you treated New Slovenia like, you know, uncle to little grandson, because you're good, because you're good, just don't take that cookie. Customers are their own and independent organism. And just as Nova Slovenija decided to do this interpretation on her own, the Slovenian Democratic Party has decided on its own to proceed to this interpretation. Those who read this interpolation begin at the beginning, read the Constitution, 118. Article, “Interpellation is a constitutional category.” That's not something you'd object to or question. Today, the coalition foreign policy failed the exam. I do not know whether you are aware of what the official representative of the National Assembly said today, Mr Hainz, Vice-President of the National Assembly, in this Chamber. Are you aware? Look, we all know that we have one big topic ahead of us – the arbitration agreement. But Mr Hainz said this nonchalantly in this room, quote: "Of course we will never come from Croats. You know that Croats have a completely different relationship. They do not adhere to any agreement, but they do, of course, still return in many respects in the 19th century, an era of imperialism. Otherwise, Croats now have problems within themselves even with the revolution." Look, the official representative of the National Assembly today, with such a heated attitude towards Croatia, said these official words here in this Chamber. I didn't listen, and I didn't hear the minister stand up and point out those words. Look, if the Minister were to lead a coherent foreign policy, I would immediately protest and say, listen, we have a difficult relationship with Croatia, don't say that in the National Assembly, don't say that in the role of Vice-President of Parliament. It is inconceivable that such words are spoken in this Chamber to the friendly neighbouring country of Croatia. In the declaration you have accepted, you have recorded good neighbourly relations, and the Vice-President of Parliament says that in many respects Croatia lives in the 19th century. Look, Mr Trček, if you don't know, he told you that ambassadors and embassies follow every word that is said in here. If spoken by the Vice-President of Parliament, it is even more difficult. The president of the National Assembly also passed the exam today. Again, I quote you because he had previously apologized very ineffectively or not apologized, but tried to apologize for his words. I quote his words: “I say, and here I place the thesis that the opposition that so attacks representatives in its own country between disputes and situations” – then, this is the United Nations vocabulary and includes all conflicts and now we are in such a conflict of crisis – “more dangerous for the country than what you see as a threat to the Foreign Minister.” First, so one of the most important men in Slovenia, one of those who leads the country in the event of an emergency, said that the opposition that attacks such an attack, that is, who prepares the interpretation, is more dangerous to the country than the threat posed by the foreign minister. Otherwise, he implicitly said that the foreign minister was causing a certain danger, but worse than that, it was that the opposition called us a threat to the countries by interpellation. Look, this is a precedent. That's something in a democratic country that's inconceivable! I don't understand when you're going to tell yourself in the coalition that nothing is allowed in this congregation that comes to mind. Indeed, if the President of Parliament thinks so intimately, fine, and even after you and your colleague Hainz go somewhere, they can sit down, one talks about this, about the terrible opposition and the other about Croatia. But don't say that here in the National Assembly when people listen to you when the outside world listens to you. Look, this is unacceptable. And then what colleague Wilfan, who, now I see, did not, said when he presented a private conversation between a Member and himself here before the other colleagues. Look, I am now listing the names of the five members of the coalition who have told me that they will have great difficulties defending the Foreign Minister. I won't. [[advertising from the hall]] And I won't, because I respect them. [[advertising from the hall]] So. And if you say it like that, I won't say the name. And given the arguments they made today, I can tell you that they really had problems. Because they mainly attacked, but they didn't defend themselves. And the whole point of this interpolation is that she didn't defend herself, but she attacked those who filed this interpolation. Another shock to the public outside. Mr Erjavec said today: "I still do not know whether the arbitration procedure will continue." In December he said: “Erjavec will win.” How will Erjavec win if the arbitration procedure does not proceed? And when the two other arbitrators were appointed in September, they competed, the Prime Minister – I can find you quotes – the President of Parliament, how pleased they are that the process continues. Today, the Foreign Minister says: “I still do not know whether the arbitration procedure will continue.” So he denies the statements made by the Prime Minister and the President of Parliament. And all that they've said so far, I'll say, in a way spoken, look, don't worry, it's important that these two were called, now we're safe again, he showed today and said that he doesn't hold it. And if I go back to my colleague Wilfan. When he said today that if colleague Horvat, as president of the PSC, is in principle, he would step down if the interpolation was not voted out. Look, Mr. Wilphan is the last one who can talk about principle. He was on the list of Zoran Jankovic until some land changed his destination and got a construction plan, then he went to the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, turned his back on Mr Jankovic because he calculated that he would be better chosen in this way, and after finding that he would be easier chosen on another list, he went to DeSUS. So Mr. Wilphan is the last to speak of principle. But I'm giving him another chance. I am giving him a second chance, following an analogy of what he has suggested to Mr Horvath, that if Mr Danilo Türk is not elected Secretary-General of the UN, he should call on Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac to step down if he is in principle. Look, if he's going to do this, then at least in some way the gentleman is principled. Now, too, that last argument Mr Škodnik previously presented that it was in our government that we put Karl Erjavac as Minister. Look, it's you, the coalition, who signed up or proposed Klaudija Markež as Minister, and that doesn't mean you haven't changed your mind. You're very fast, I think after one day. But this time is a little longer, but foreign policy is a more complex matter. And you know what they say, insisting on a mistake, means making a new mistake. And to conclude. The Foreign Minister is leading foreign policy in the way he was today responding to apparent interpretations. And in view of this, it seems to me that for Slovenia and for Slovenian foreign policy it is useful to support the proposed interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you very much. He has a word, Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc. Get ready, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u169	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister Erjavec, Ministerial Assembly, of course also colleagues and fellow Members! I'll just put the opposite thesis here, with which Mr Logar has finished. I think interpellation against Minister Erjavac is absolutely unnecessary, and I will not support it either. I would hope to argue, even though someone will say that I do not understand democracy, that today was a major waste of time and the promotion of two opposition parties. This is some non-stately attitude, when we face a major crisis in Europe, we are asking our foreign minister that, of course, foreigners are watching us fight each other, instead of looking the truth into our eyes, but as the smallest country here among the smaller ones in Europe, we have shown how these refugee crises must also be tackled. Remember that Minister Erjavec was very proactive, innovative here, of course, with the President of our Government, and at some point came up with proposals that are now being implemented and are giving some hope that this crisis will somehow be resolved and that we are solving the matter where it came from. It should also be said that Minister Erjavec, at the international diplomatic floor, has begun to warn the entire world and European public that the problem must begin to be solved at the source of the crisis, which is in Syria, not here, where these problems are then causing us all together. So I think I repeat once again that it would be best for you to withdraw this interpolation, if it were still possible, to shorten our time and put more energy into other projects, which would give our country a great deal of opportunity and opportunity. Of course, in a way, I also recognized, I would say, some members of the opposition, that they are often in favour of economic initiatives. I miss this particular attitude, not that they invest energy in projects such as some unnecessary interpretation. Why not support the fiscal world or some other law that we have already drawn up. I'd cut things short because I'm running out of time. Minister Erjavec has shown a great deal of skill on the international diplomatic floor, and in particular he would point out economic diplomacy. It is important today to focus on economic topics, to look for partners, here to count EXPO in Milan, visit to China, then to good cooperation with Minister of Economy, Spirit and so on. So once again, I think I don't support interpolation, but let's face it once again, and let's focus on the projects in Parliament. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Time's up. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. I see that the debate on this interpretation, particularly with regard to those defending the Minister and the Minister, is about everything but the content of the interpretation. About everything else, just not the content of the interpolation. In the introduction, the leader of the largest coalition party in the National Assembly, Mrs Simona Kustec Lipicer, challenged the opposition, two parties, to put in an intervention. The National Assembly as a whole shall have the role of the supervisory authority, if I may make it easier, over the work of the executive branch. Like the whole thing. In particular, this role belongs to the opposition. And if the opposition still disagrees with some of the solutions or finds that there is a lack of law enforcement and violation of the Constitution or other matters, it may propose interpretation. Because what is now on the agenda, all procedural conditions are met. If they weren't, we wouldn't be dealing with interpolation today. All the substantive conditions for the treatment of interpolation are also met. And it saddens me that in the party Desus, SMC, some others also verbally accounted with the signatories of the interpretation, in particular with the first signed, third signed and also with our parliamentary group. When this wedge failed to be blocked, this wedge inside the NSI, especially the minister, tried to discredit the signatories and you said that the interpolation was weak. I'm sorry, Minister, but you're wrong here. Interpellation is written on 8 pages and you have prepared 27 pages of response. Then what did you write 27 pages of the answer if the interpolation is weak? A page and a half would be enough. So much for arguing that this interpolation isn't weak, but things stand. And the fund you picked up is even smaller by about 10% and the line spacing is even smaller than the one we signed. In short, if this is such a lame document, why do so much effort, you and your team from the Ministry. It is not worth the effort to wait 30 days or extremes to give an answer, if that is so lame and so easy to do. This interpolation could be dealt with in January, no problem if it was so easy to do it and so lame, but obviously it's not. With regard to this verbal attack by Wilfan on the posts and seats and functions of Members of the National Assembly, it is very incorrect. Mr Jurša fought for Mr Wilfan to the extreme extent that he would take the position of president of the Defence Committee from the opposition to the coalition when he crossed over to your party. Mr. Jursha fought to make it so. This can be ensured by the leadership of the National Assembly. To give you a role, it is obvious that you still have three positions of Vice-Presidents in the National Assembly too many, and you do not have the correctness to give up on those who lack anything in the National Assembly. You can look at all the tables, they're all with the President of the National Assembly, and you'll see who's fighting for what. The ones you read the most, I don't know the SDS, but now I see NSIs, some shortcomings, some ambitions, you're doing your best. There is no correctness in this operation, neither in the largest coalition party nor in the other coalition partners. I'm sorry. I can prove it to you with the documents, there's no problem, and there's no record. As far as this ambition is concerned, in order for the coalition to prove to be a nationalist, as a cohesive force of this National Assembly, you had the opportunity to see it yesterday. You needed 60 votes for the fiscal world, and there was not enough on the government will to come to the opposition to present what you would suggest, how you would propose. And then the leader of the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly coldly accused the opposition of unconstructiveness. That's what it sounded like yesterday for that pay phone. Very incorrect. Very incorrect. And also the president of the National Assembly, who today discussed this destructive role of the opposition, spoke with great disdain, no argument, no evidence, no substantive explanation, but just like that. We have supported many government proposals in the SDS. You can look at all the votes. But we tried to make things different and better, and we also tried to oppose things. On the other hand, you can count on one finger one hand what you supported in the coalition when we proposed from the SDS, but that was not a small one, it was extremely large. The Opus SDS of our parliamentary group in this mandate is almost as large or not significantly smaller than 30 times the total number of coalitions together as regards the National Assembly, and not significantly smaller than the Government, but you have 40,000 officials, state officials, employees working exclusively for government projects. Look at that. If there were no interpellations this week at this meeting, today at 11 a.m., we would conclude the meeting of the National Assembly. Look, the votes, the dates, if you count down the parliamentary questions that are a ritual, we would have closed yesterday's meeting of the National Assembly. And you're saying let's get something smart to do. What? I've called you several times before, so suggest we work. Look, there's no agenda either. There are no agenda items. It is said that New Year's holiday was so good for this government team that no emergency procedure could be prepared to at least correct any transitional provision, but to resolve the matter where an urgent matter is. Nothing. And you're pushing something up here, what you've done and how good economic growth is. I do not think that this interpretation would be if the Minister's conduct were as appropriate as that of someone who was elected to the National Assembly and reported correctly to the National Assembly. Also, the reason we signed and filed this interpolation was a little later than we should have. We hoped that something more serious would start to happen in this arbitration process, but it is not. With all these big words that we have heard, Minister, with all these effective measures, victories and so forth, we have only learned today that it is unlikely that everything will not be as it was predicted that the result will not be as it was predicted. That's what the First Man of the Foreign Ministry says. Why do you keep such a cover-up all this time? What do you need this for? Is this for the good of the country? Is this for the benefit of the citizens? Is that for the best, I don't know what? The fact is, as Foreign Minister in this area, you are objectively responsible for what happened, and I don't think the government's response was good either. If someone is involved in a scandal that has taken place, they cannot be rewarded with a new function and a new job in another ministry. In fact, you rewarded him for what he was doing, for making a problem, he was involved. It's like someone who's guilty of causing an accident and then is given an important function somewhere else. Well, that's not the only case. Even all those who were or some of those who worked in the diplomatic service who caused problems, say, a problem in Paris, stayed at work in the department you're covering. I think that the initial work shows more than how it is, I would say, credible and how you feel about those who are actually doing the damage to the state. All these problems that are being detected, they probably aren't just like that. You also said: I did not break any law and no constitution.” You were on the government team before you even formed a government team, and you were aware that you had a person among you who was proposed to serve as minister who broke the laws and constitution, and your parliamentary group supported him as a candidate for minister. If I generalise, for this coalition, there is no violation large enough and enough, I will say, recognized that action would be taken against anyone. Against no one, regardless of the violation. Now again came the verdict of the inspector's inspection that one of the ministers was involved in the violation of the Constitution, that he was looking into, we can say, banking also for persons who are not obliged to report to the Commission for the prevention of corruption. So what did you do? As Minister, did you make any suggestions? Have your Members, as Members, made any suggestions? Has the coalition done anything? Has the Prime Minister, the constitutional lawyer, moved? Nothing. So, violations of laws and constitutions for this government coalition are no reason to resolve. But it's a trap, and that's it. It's tighter than it is, it's already too expensive. When you talk about the relationship we have with these country-specific topics, you need to be credible. And you're not credible. If it is not a motion for a discharge, by calling for a discharge in cases where a person has infringed the Constitution by means of a Constitutional Court judgment, and because they have found by a Supreme Court judgment that he has violated the Constitution and when they have found in the Court of Auditors that he has violated a lot of laws, there is insufficient reason to dismiss, then the person is asked. Then we can only try it in the same way that we suggested it would happen. But even in this case, Mr. Minister, it is a scandalous move that you have taken in the time of these arbitrational problems and this espionage affair that has taken place. It's scandalous! If, I would say, for the most important Slovenian foreign policy problem, which is regulating the border with Croatia, the minister at the time of the scandal, allows climbing the French mountains and does not respond for a week, then it means that his hobby is more important than regulating the state matters for which he is paid. This is undeniable, you have shown all of Slovenia. Now, if that's how you imagine things, then it's a little weird. Tell me what would happen to the Austrian foreign minister or to French or English if we were talking about political culture. How many ministers in such problems in other countries have interrupted all reserved and paid and other matters and come home to solve problems in person because they were in charge and because they felt that this was their key problem. None of this has happened in the case we're talking about. You've done what you've been paid for, but the state will somehow find itself, the Prime Minister of the Government or someone else will cover these matters. It was scandalous, and no one in the coalition in some appropriate way even reacted. As for the other findings, we are not the only one, but almost the only country that has emerged or originated from the former South in a very civilized, cultural way. In fact, we are the only country paying all the costs of the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. The only one. The problems of the deleted do not have Croats, do not have Serbs, do not have Bosnians, do not have Macedonians, do not have Montenegrins. No one has that problem. Only Slovenia. And there were many dirty things that happened, massacres, murders, exodus, displaced persons, tens of thousands of them even came to Slovenia, and none of these countries had that problem. Which means that those who represented Slovenia before the European Court of Justice worked not for Slovenia, but for something else. Not to mention the problem of savers, a similar story. Does Serbia pay Croats or Croats Serbs? The Bosnians are paying someone something? The Montenegrins are paying someone something? Only Slovenia. And there are a lot of such cases. In short, anything that goes wrong and goes wrong is a problem. It is also difficult to avoid such intrigue within the European Union. Let's just say that when the European Union, and not the only one, declared Russia's economic blockade that, in fact, Slovenian policy had become extremely active in the field of relations with Russia in one form or another, it was a symptom. This is not a European action, because at the time all countries were limited, except for Slovenian foreign policy, which exposed the matter and in this case proved to be a European intriguer. We know that some relations with Russia must be maintained. It is indisputable that we must also care for them. But to put this thing extremely forward when everyone's gone, it's probably not the wisest action. Abuse in some way of this Russian chapel means intrigue and show this intrigue against the partners of the European Union. Just like you're using Dražgoša to intrigue inside on internal affairs, it's called irritation, I'll say, and the excitement of the internal public with these divisions. In short, I don't think these things are going the right way. What we have seen here is how the Foreign Minister behaves in the National Assembly, where, regardless of the support he has in the coalition, he should only come a little more respectfully, even a little more politely, the question is how this is transferred to the European parquet. Are these intrigues that are available there also taking place in these communications with individual partners within the European Union? I think there is probably not much difference, because one cannot be in one of the skins of the National Assembly or on the Slovenian political scene, and another in another, when it comes to these international relations. He can't. Because it's simply not possible to jump like that. This mediation initiative, which took place at the time of this blockade, is also a knee shot. Definitely. Assemblies Slovenia, the diplomatic powers of Slovenia then offered itself as a mediator between the community to which it belongs and between the country which has enjoyed the annexation of one part of an independent state. I think this has given rise to great smiles at home, and so much more probably in this international political environment. That's for sure. This is probably no way to gain support from such irritation in an international environment. That things do not work in this migrant crisis is seen by the accumulation of forces at the northern border, as well as at the western border. Only on the southern border is this weaker, but the northern border is closing pretty well, things are limiting. Now, things are closing down, and I think we're in a lot of trouble, partly because of these internal divisions in the government, when you're arguing, which minister is more important, either defensive or internal, whether any additional units and forces need to be engaged to protect the southern border or not, whether the military has the right authority or not, and so on. In short, we have lost a lot of time in these cases and, in part or in a significant part, this goes also on the rumble of inadequate foreign, inadequate security and inadequate defence policies, at the expense of all three policies. With regard to this situation, Slovenia certainly has not acquired any friends or trusted partners, because it does not represent the trust of a worthy foreign partner. Slovenia cannot come with some intrigues into international space and present itself as a rescuer or a partner in solving some problems if, in fact, it leaves everyone with whom it deals, eventually in one way or another, at the end of the day. This policy is not credible. Now that you are talking about Mr Erjavec being an important official in our two governments, once a defence minister, once an outside minister, there is no problem. Much of the problems we face in this mandate are pilots. If the pilot doesn't know what it is, if the President of the Government doesn't know what it is, if he doesn't have a vision, then those on this team don't know what it is. A typical example is former Minister Virant, while under some serious supervision and guidance, we were able to implement reforms, anti-biocratic ones, and so on when he came into another government, but he did the opposite, and he was involved in the bureaucracy of the country. Everything depends on the concept and on the model to control management. And if that is not the case, then such discourses and excursions are taking place as we have seen in their current mandate in the field of foreign policy, as well as in all other areas, nothing is better. No better. If you think these starry behaviors and this, how will one of the Members who tells him anything be treated more harshly, this is a lost game. It's a lost game. Of this, Mr Minister, the state of Slovenia will have nothing but a fiasco and a minus. You're the one who's out performing Slovenia. More than that, we should be aware that it depends on what the image of Slovenia will be in the world. Not only are you going to throw someone back at you, it's a small part, an unnecessary part, an insignificant part of it, but you're the one who has to lead a policy, not let him back like this here with some MP. [[…]] Well, there are a lot of cases where we can let them under your belt, but it's not appropriate. The contents of the problems are written in interpolation and what is written here is more than obvious, otherwise they would not write times 3.5 times 4 long answers to individual interpolation findings. So that these media spins, which, as a government, like those that have media support, are absolutely unendurable. If it didn't cost, we wouldn't have written it so extensively. And also those who tweet and retweet something else, first look at the substantive answers and those comments that are attributed. This tells us all about how serious the interpretation is and how hard the minister had to try to answer it. These are not reasoned answers. And as far as I'm concerned, my decision is clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Now the proponent has the word slowly, first of all the replica. [[…]] Mr. Primoz Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna smoke time like my friend says, 'cause then it's his turn, so I'm only gonna say two sentences. Everything I said today in the National Assembly, I've already said, only Mr Logar then overheared. Why? Because the left party in Croatia was in power, it was in his favor, but now, of course, HDZ and, of course, he turned the story around. But as for people's lives, of course, I didn't talk about it, I talked about high politics, and of course people communicate normally. I don't have any trouble flying, not over the weekend, if I ever go to the edgewall on the Istrian side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the applicant who has applied earlier. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will have some more questions which I have already raised today, unfortunately I have not received an answer, then because I see that he has also applied, and then, Madam Vice-President, I would like to suggest that you close the meeting first, because the following information, which is confidential in nature, will be presented. And you know how this procedure works. I have been Minister of State several times today, this day showing a letter published by the Permanent Court of Arbitration on 5 May. In the meantime, I also said again, “Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac's statements sabotaged the arbitration process and helped Croatia in its argument, as the minister, in his statements, created the impression that Slovenians had privileged status in the process.” It is scandalous that Karl Erjavec did all of this despite warning the arbitral tribunal on May 5, 2015 with this letter — you get it on the website — not to do so, he was warned by the arbitral tribunal. And despite being bound by the obligations laid down in Article 10 of the Arbitration Agreement, which states, I quote, "to refrain from any act or declaration which could exacerbate the dispute or endanger the work of the arbitral tribunal". And now for the last time, please, Mr. Minister, what is your assessment of this letter? Have you dealt with him in government? However, after this letter, why did you continue with your reckless statements, lastly, as stated on December 21, 2015? Dear colleagues, I'm very disappointed. In my opening remarks, I proposed that we use this day for one in-depth debate on the topic of Quo exercises Slovenian foreign policy. What did we all listen to, what kind of eyewitnesses?! You have intertwined us Members, and with this, colleagues and colleagues, you have demolished this high assembly again. I'm really sorry, and I'm very disappointed. And forward with my questions, which are still, three times have already been asked, I still haven't gotten [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u176	A little peace in the hall, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u177	The answer, and I hope to get it. [[…]] Mr Minister, what is now the task of the Foreign Policy Committee? Although, yes, our subjectivity, as Mr Hainz says, is clear, but tell us why you broke the agenda for recognition of Palestine at the government on 2 July last year. And please communicate with your ambassador to Tel Aviv, yes, she is also ours, too, is mine, this is Mrs Barbara Sušnik, but let her tell Knesset now whether she is interested or not. We have sent an invitation, the Committee on Foreign Policy, acting unanimously, has sent an invitation to see who is now the burden of this procedure. Palestine? I will no longer listen here to the perceptions that this is the burden of New Slovenia and SDS. Let's be honest here. It is an extremely important international act and it is not embarrassing. I ask again when you will implement the ADP-related decision, is of an internal nature, cannot read it, we have sent it to you or adopted it to the Committee on Foreign Policy on 3 July last year. If you can't send it to me, send it to your colleague Ivan Hršk, who runs the commission, so that we can hold a joint meeting. You know this case is very acute, and if you want my position, you know it anyway, don't be afraid. You say it's a shame that day. Such statements actually degrade this high choir. My friend Tanko made it very clear that there's no... no... there's no... there's no... there's no... there's no... there's no... there's no... there's no... there's no... there's no... there's Look, we've already prepared you a new bill on tax clearance of accounts, we're also writing other novels. Let's get to Saturday, by Saturday the government can draft laws and we will make some changes to laws that will allow, I don't know, tax breaks for investors that will open up the Slovenian economy, which will also be very appropriate for Slovenian economic diplomacy, which must have a written answer to the foreign investor's question about why it is interesting to invest in the Republic of Slovenia. Do we have these answers by saying them in 10 seconds? I'm afraid not. Yes, we have a lot of work to do to create at least 60,000 new jobs, say, in the next three years or by the end of the term of office. I'll be the first to congratulate you on that. And it will be, dear colleagues and colleagues, a condition, that is the first condition that they will be better, a person worth his pension, that our family policy will be better, that health policy will be better and so on. Money doesn't grow on trees, money is made in production, in the economy. Let's trust the economy more, and we'll all be better off. My colleague Beznik reminded me earlier, and I suggest a well-intentioned conclusion or suggestion. My colleague Breznik knows very well how the world car industry is moving, where it invests, I have information that Germany will invest a good 24 billion euros in Mexico over the next 10 years, and I suggest, Mr Minister, that you invite the former Honorary Consul Daniel Muršec to a personal conversation, I think, colleague Breznik, so that he may have been removed after some mistake. When you talk about visiting a 100-year-old chapel in Vršič. Many in this country have already asked me as well as last year to visit Medvedev, but at that time the matter was abused. When it comes to this, this is my personal opinion, when it comes to an expressive and just and just a five-comorative visit to a five-comorative event, then I personally have no problem if Mr Putin comes. But this event is in one and a half hours, it's over, let's say goodbye and Mr Putin can go. I hope there's nothing else in the background. I expect, Mr. Secretary, your answers, at last. Finally. And I thank you in advance. I hope I'm worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Now I have my first procedural proposal, mags. Anzeta Logar. Then we'll give the second word, the second procedural proposal, then the minister gets the word, and then I take your proposal into account on behalf of the NSI Group. That's it. Now I give the word "magic." Anget Logar for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Please alert your colleague to the Vice-President of the National Assembly. In fact, he said that this statement that Croatia is, for example, in a variety of respects in the 19th century and that it is now a revolution and so on that he has already said it. Look, by saying this today, even though he said it earlier, it means he's multiplying the damage from the point of view of the official representative of the National Assembly. And you, as co-chair or co-chair of this National Assembly, need to point out that your colleague is doing damage to Slovenia during this important period to act in contravention of the Declaration on Foreign Policy, which states that “preservation and strengthening of good neighbourly relations with Croatia, Austria and other countries” and if, for example, he admits that I am only pointing to this statement because it has now changed the option in Croatia, thus only showing how he perceives this situation, so that he looks at the individual problem in relation to the political option in another country. I only have a view of the role and importance of foreign policy in Slovenia, no matter what option is in Croatia. And please ensure that officials, the highest representatives of the National Assembly do not harm Slovenian foreign policy with their statements, regardless of which option is in power in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I think the vice president has heard your opinion. I now give the floor to another procedural proposal. Dr. Franz Duck, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you. I will extend the procedural proposal a little bit by referring to the speaker in front of me, referring to the course of the meeting and so on. But you know, as they say, we're no longer classified. About 70% of the countries in the world were unlisted and Croatia was so smart that it remained an unlisted observer. Among the unlisted are quite a few of our important trading partners or some of them who would like to be. Now someone who runs the Foreign Policy Committee probably knows that if someone who's a calibre like Putin comes to Kranjska Gora, he won't just drink coffee where I used to work, and we won't have to tell him to rest after an hour. This is also a matter of how you express foreign policy. Well, come on, gentlemen, get in a cold shower now, all of you, 45 minutes. Let's hear it. My procedural proposal, however, is what I said to the President of the National Assembly, when you were absent, we also have other obligations in the house after 9 hours and 40 minutes, in short, three hours ago, to stick to the topic of today's interpretation. I can also start talking here now that I will have one proposal on the fate of small brewers in Slovenia, but this is not today's topic. And that's when we kind of agreed to stick to the subject. And I ask that those who run this session take this into account and take the word of the people who speak of the pensioners about the proposals, because otherwise I will bring something here and I will start quoting poetry, also Croatian, because I like Tina Ujic. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u182	Dr. Franz Trcek, the first part was the debate, the abuse of the rules of procedure and the procedural proposal, and I will no longer talk about it. Now I give my word to the Minister, Mr. Karl Erjavac. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to answer some of the questions raised by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Jožef Horvat, who says that he should give the impression that we have a privileged position on arbitration. I must say that I did not give this impression, but this impression comes from an arbitration agreement, that is a fact. Therefore, Slovenians and Slovenians and nationals of that country supported the referendum at the time, supporting the signing of an arbitration agreement. In this arbitration agreement, Article 3 provides that the arbitral tribunal shall establish contact with the high seas. And this was the main argument why the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia supported the referendum. That's why I don't understand how they keep telling me that I said something I shouldn't have said. That's not true, I just said what Article 3 stipulates, and I told my feelings about my conversations with our lawyers. The letter of 5 May, this is the response of the arbitral tribunal to a letter made by Croatia regarding this statement on Velenje TV, when I said that the arbitral tribunal must establish contact with the open sea in accordance with Article 3 of the arbitration agreement and that after discussions with our lawyers, I have a good feeling that I am optimistic. So I must say that the arbitral tribunal calls on both parties to respect the agreement. And here there is no reminder of the name Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia. But there is only an answer to the Croatian letter by the arbitral tribunal that both parties should respect the arbitration agreement and that both sides should refrain from conduct and statements that could even endanger the proceedings or even cause unnecessary tensions between the two parties. So I don't understand why you're taking this as a yellow card or as an obvious. On the other hand, we have listened all the time to the observations, especially in the public and also to some of the parties as Croats perform, otherwise they have been in the pre-election period and have always commented on certain things, and we should be quiet. I do not accept such logic, especially if everything is under arbitration agreement. I don't think it's wrong and the arbitral tribunal doesn't criticise these statements, because I just said what the arbitration agreement contains. Someone told me that I was still saying in December that Karl would win, as far as arbitration is concerned, but today I said that it was not clear whether the procedure would continue. I said that the proceedings continue as regards the clearance of the circumstances of the July event, that oral proceedings will continue in March and, of course, the arbitral tribunal will decide how to proceed. But given that two alternate arbitrations have been called, given that it will be dealt with, I am an optimist. I think the procedure will go on. And I hope I don't get my readings again. And I would ask those who attack that I should resign because I am objectively responsible, let us wait for the arbitral tribunal to decide, let us wait for a possible arbitral verdict, and then we can assess my objective responsibility. Because it is my responsibility to do everything to keep this process going. I have also done everything that the European Commission has supported the continuation of this arbitration procedure, as well as some influential countries such as Germany, Great Britain, France and so on. Then, with regard to EU intervention with the Russian Federation. Here you like to urge me to offer myself in some way to mediate between the EU and the Russian Federation, but I do not know that Slovenia is a member of the European Union. And that's the way it wanted to be. In this regard, I must say that before the Vilnius Summit, when this was the Eastern European Partnership, which decided to bring Ukraine closer to the European Union, I was in Moscow and I also had discussions with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov. Otherwise, I took advantage of this discussion when, as President of the Mixed Economic Cooperation Commission between Slovenia and the Russian Federation, I prepared everything necessary for this meeting together with the economists, and it was also an opportunity to meet with the Russian Foreign Minister. And when we discussed Ukraine's approach to the European Union, he made it very clear there that Russia would not see it peacefully. And to warn my colleagues in Brussels, within the European Union, that this is not so simple. He also told me that when the Soviet Union broke down, it was also an agreement that Ukraine would remain neutral as the buffer zone between NATO and the European Union and the Russian Federation. And immediately after that visit, on the First Council of Foreign Ministers, I pointed out what the Russian Foreign Minister had said if the procedure for Ukraine's approach to the European Union continued. At that time he was also Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt, author of that famous analysis, where he noted that Slovenia had done the least about the migration crisis, and today it was said what activities we had carried out, from the initiative of the Prime Minister and so on, he said there, it is no problem, Russia is no factor and so on. And things went on. At that time, I proposed to Brussels that dialogue with the Russian Federation be needed before the Eastern Partnership Summit takes place. Well, then we had an Eastern Partnership and then we had a Ukrainian crisis. And when I was in the next session of the world and in a bilateral conversation, for example, with Spanish Foreign Minister Manuel Garcia, he said to me, "Look, if we'd listened to you then, maybe this wouldn't have happened." But then there was the belief that the Russian Federation was not a strategic actor in international politics. However, when the Ukrainian crisis took place, I listened to the Russian Federation take a few steps forward regarding military capabilities and military capabilities. And from this title, I just said that I could help resolve this conflict. Given that we have good relations, open relations with the Russian Foreign Minister, if he had already trusted me, what could happen if the Eastern Partnership were to occur and Ukraine was approaching, it seemed to me that I needed something to offer and that I might help solve this problem. Of course, here in Slovenia this was accepted with great ridicule, contempt, because here in Slovenia it is so that someone's head a little above the water yes, it should be sunk immediately. But it's okay. Well, I volunteered then, and the ministers know exactly what I said about the Ukrainian crisis at the time. I think that the Ukrainian crisis cannot be resolved without dialogue with the Russian Federation. As with Iran's nuclear programmes, an agreement would not have been successful if the Russian Federation had not cooperated. It will be the same for Syria. Until there is agreement between the United States of America and the Russian Federation, things will go to a dead end. But I must tell Mr. Tank that I am disturbed by some interference with the violation of the Constitution and the law. See, I did not violate the Constitution, I did not violate the law, and in particular did not violate the Constitution and the law of the members of Desus, who supported one of the ministers of this government, so I do not know why you are telling me that this interpretation is justified in particular because it is supposed to be responsible for the violation of the Constitution and the laws of Desus, because they supported one of the ministers of this government, where the Constitutional Court found that there has been a violation. Of course I can't accept that. Then you tell me that it is not appropriate for me to discuss this with a Member. But I have to debate if there are certain things that are not real to me all the time. If someone tells me to renew the weekend from the black funds, if someone tells me that I inherited the weekend in Croatia, if someone tells me to cooperate with the Croatian secret services, voluntarily or forcibly. Look, I have to discuss this. I have to answer such arguments. Then you tell me why we needed so much time and it's only today's interpretation on the agenda. Interpellation was filed, if I recall, on 7 January. This interpretation could not be considered at the January session. You know this because you are one of the biggest experts in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If that's not the case, correct me, because then I have to dissuade my colleagues, because they assured me that there is no way to deal with interpretation at the January session. But believe me, I'd like us to deal with this as soon as possible, because it's a pain to wait for that famous session to happen, where you're being treated all the time and all day as the biggest criminal who, I don't know, has spent hundreds of millions and so on. I must say that we have stuck to these deadlines, and that this matter is in February, although today is March 2nd, a few more hours, but now the February meeting of the National Assembly is under way, if they have informed me correctly. And I think they did. So I must say that we have made every effort to get this treatment done as soon as possible. About the answer. Look, if I were to answer on one side, I'd say it's nothing. The Minister is making fun of the National Assembly. We've done an interpolation that has eight or no idea how many pages, and the minister answers on one side. I can see the obvious. But look, because it doesn't matter how many sides there are, we've just responded to all those signs that come out of the interpolation. Why is foreign policy not improvised? Why is it not clear that Slovenian foreign policy is completely flawed? Why don't they just hold on to the notion that we're politically incapacitated? I will now introduce a mandatory diplomatic examination in the Desus party, because otherwise I will not be able to recruit politically. But in our response, we described exactly how the procedures are going. Then it's about diplomatic controls. We have described everything very precisely and you are still criminalizing certain ambassadors, not you, you are not, but today we have been able to listen to how you should break the working relationship with the former Ambassador of France. By the way, she received the highest French national award for her contribution to improving and strengthening relations between Slovenia and France. Let us not forget that, for the first time in my mandate, the French President of the Republic has made an official visit. He didn't come by by accident. He came here because of me because I'm a francophone, and also because I've had more meetings with President François Holland. And then he decided to finally visit this country. I was sorry that there was no day left. So all of these obviouss that the answer is too long, that obviously the interpretation is justified, because the answer is very long, we tried No, we wanted to explain what unsubstantiated statements are in the interpretation. [[…]] And those who have read the answer and are well - intentioned would no longer ask such questions. But, I know, you have to earn your salary as much as I have to. And so it is right that we have this debate, so that we can honestly spend our wages because today — how many hours are we going to discuss? - 13, 14 hours, we'll have another session closed. So I think today our citizens can applaud us, we really worked hard, they were difficult questions, they were professional answers. I think, when the session is over, we will all go home satisfied, especially the proponents, I am sure that the first signed and third signed will sleep well today, peacefully, because we have cleared up all these issues regarding Slovenian foreign policy. We took this time to really explain why the interpretation is unfounded. And once again, I am sure that if the SDS were to prepare the interpolation, I should do more with the answers, but given that it is really ready very easily and flat-rate, of course we could easily defend this interpolation because there was not enough content in the interpolation. Then we started dealing with private matters. For example, I remember reading an interview in Del, one of your MPs, where a journalist asks him, how do you comment that Erjavec praises the Adriatic Sea? Tell me, which Slovenian does not praise the Adriatic Sea? And those of us who have walked the world know that this is one of the pearls. And I said that this is the most beautiful sea, that the Croatian sea is the most beautiful sea in the world. That's what I'm saying. But I also say that because I'm polite, because if you're a diplomat, you have to be polite to your neighbors. You won't tell your neighbors, you don't have a nice sea, and then we have a million Slovenians coming to this sea. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, it's embarrassing. It's just interviews like that. I don't understand why you're so nervous. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u184	A little more peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u185	Since you're young, you shouldn't be so nervous. You're obviously sorry that you filed this interpolation. Thank you. I'm closing up for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvat has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Madam President. It's just a short replica. Look, Mr. Minister, we're showing you and asking you about this lovely letter from the permanent arbitration court, you take it as an attack on you. Come on! And here, yes, of course, it doesn't say Karl Erjavec, and Victor doesn't. However, he writes Slovenian Foreign Minister, and neither does the Croatian Foreign Minister. And today, let's get this thing over with – okay? And another 15 times or how many times: Palestine, how will the procedure and the ADP go? I remember you, didn't I? I'm so good.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u188	Mr Karl Erjavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u189	With regard to Palestine, I will take this advice of yours to ask the Israeli Foreign Policy Committee when they intend to come to Slovenia, because if they don't think, then there is no point in waiting for them. But you must admit that at the time, on the Foreign Policy Committee, we all agreed to hear the opposite. There's no doubt about that. And tomorrow I will order our ambassador, maybe even watch this direct transfer, and she will take it as an order to check on this visit to the Israeli Foreign Policy Committee. Why did we interrupt this meeting of the government on July 2nd? Because we agreed at that time to ask about the other members of the European Union whose countries intend to recognise Palestine as a single and sovereign state by the end of the year. I think that after this interpretation session, and if I remain Minister for Foreign Affairs, we will continue this procedure. But if I don't, someone else will.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u190	Thank you very much. In accordance with Mr Jožet Horvat's proposal on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and because he is a mag. In his opening remarks, Mr Tonin announced that he would raise questions in the debate concerning the data which have a degree of confidentiality confidentially or in secret, on the basis of Article 101(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the NSI Group would propose to the National Assembly that part of the 9th agenda should be held at a meeting without the presence of the public. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 101, the National Assembly shall decide on this at a meeting without public presence. Please remove all personal items from the hall, including mobile phones and laptops and other electronic devices. Members and Members of Parliament are kindly requested to have an e-mail card with you when re-entering the Grand Chamber of the National Assembly for identification purposes. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and the 16th meeting for 30 minutes so that the assembly services can prepare everything necessary for the holding of the meeting without public presence. We will continue with the meeting at 9:40 a.m. when we decide on the proposed decision. [[The meeting was suspended at 21.08 p.m.]] 9. Agenda item - INTERPEAL ON THE WORK AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MINISTRY FOR THE EXTERNAL MATTERS OF VICTOR ERIJAVC /examination of the point without the presence of the public/
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u191	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u192	Good day to all again and good evening at the same time! After a day that was very interesting and very enlightening. For he showed that the coalition, which was elected on the basis of an oath of ethics, morals and above all the principle of responsibility, has exactly with the responsibility of the most difficult Mr. President, could be regulated by this sounding, because I believe that no one can hear me in this microphony. [[microphone problems]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u193	Stop time, please. Try it now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u194	So, colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to the question of responsibility at the time of Cerara's government and this coalition, this is what it looks like. If someone steals one of those pâtés, they throw it out of work right now. If someone steals some electronics, they can keep doing their job. If someone illegally picks up not to say exactly steals, just over 20,000 euros, and actually 46,000 returns them, then it's great, but it's the best one that year, at least for the European Union space. However, if someone instigates the arbitration process and misinterprets the issue of the Ljubljana Bank, then Slovenian taxpayers pay hundreds of millions of euros even for Bosnian savers, where the Ljubljana Bank or its exposure has been nationalised and it is untouchable. What a fine principle of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen! In the future, when someone on the transition left uses a word of responsibility some day, they should share free vomit bags with everyone that day. The problem is not just a matter of responsibility. The question is also what is happening in this national assembly. Because today, on one side of the government was presented that clown principle, which may be ridiculous to many, the majority of you who haggled at it, is very nice, and you all forgot something. To say how you feel about your own country. What is foreign policy really? External policy shall be the exercise of national interests against foreign partners or the defence of national interests, the interests of the State, of the community, of the whole community against the enemies when they occur. It's foreign policy. And if you act like a clown then, then you represent the country as a clown. And if this occurs in Parliament, this means that everyone seems perfectly normal if this is how the state of Slovenia is represented abroad. And I will never agree with that. Never, ladies and gentlemen. The Slovenian homeland deserves a completely different relationship. It deserves to receive a serious, responsible and professional foreign policy that will be able to actually defend its interests, represent it and present it abroad in an honorable way, thereby raising its reputation, the reputation of the State of Slovenia and respecting everything that Slovenia represents. Then Slovenia will succeed. Do not underestimate our cooperation or our non-participation with others, what this means for the well-being of the people in our country, because, not least, it is often the purely business cooperation of partner countries or their entrepreneurs, when it comes to a higher level of cooperation with our country, with entrepreneurs here, on the basis of what they open or close jobs, on the basis of which people live better or worse. This is what we are really talking about today and there is no room here for any jokes, because this is a joke at the expense of the country of Slovenia. This right to be played by someone at the expense of the State of Slovenia and even outside, nobody has this right. Even when it comes to Parliament itself, today was a very enlightening story. The President of Parliament himself, Mr Brglez, quoted from memory as saying: "The opposition that so attacks a minister is a worse threat to the country than what you see." Of course, he showed what? To embody a coalition that does not understand what constitutional standards are and what is Parliament's constitutional duty. Parliament has two tasks under the Constitution. The first is legislative, it is said, adopting laws, decrees, other acts of its own jurisdiction. The second is supervisory, which means that it controls the remaining branches of government, in particular the executive branch of power. And within this supervisory function, the Constitution gives her the right, the bet gives Parliament the right to also perform an interpretation that can either end with a proposal for the discharge of the Minister or just a debate. In any event, this debate is directly based on the Constitution and represents the highest form of supervision in the individual field of government competence; those that are, in a particular case, specialised by the Foreign Minister. If someone in this House does not understand whether this work is being obstructed or inappropriately expressed, then, forgive me, he is not worthy to perform this function. Something has already been said in the beginning that would not have been put before this Parliament. Today is a lost day. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, where are we in the field of foreign policy? Are we a highly respected, economically successful, internationally respected country that everyone likes to listen to? I think that we are far from this goal, with all due respect, Slovenia would deserve this position. And what does it turn out to be? To make every left-wing government so bad for the reputation of the state of Slovenia that it is a lost mandate. And one such lost mandate runs today. And please, don't talk about the lost day. For a mandate in which the reputation of the state of Slovenia, in which some of the most valuable acquisitions of the country from the past period are lost, is undermined at an unnecessary cost, because the situation has not been understood in due time because it has not been strategically set up in the field of foreign policy, this, ladies and gentlemen, is the real problem of the state of Slovenia at this time. What are we facing today? We are faced with a situation when, during the time of the government, the first, those for the entire mandate of Janez Janša, we had a situation waiting for the resolution of the issue of the savers of the former Ljubljana Bank in the best possible way, it was resolved, but the agreement that regulated it was resolved. Then, on the part of the Minister, there was some kind of action that kind of ruined it, which, of course, was a vehement use of Croatia, and today we are in a position where no one respects the word and is Slovenia before paying huge sums of money. As said not only to Croatian but even to Bosnian savers, which is perfectly absurd because that bank was nationalized there. But we're in this position. And that, you say, is not enough reason to get rid of it. Excuse me, I don't think the taxpayers would agree with you. Then I'll tell the chief. The biggest foreign policy issue in the past period was certainly an arbitration scandal. What happened? Mr. Sekolec, whom we could have read to be a member of the former Judgment — interesting, wasn't he? – he called Mrs Drennikov and on the phone, as we could see for ourselves, talked to her long and wide so that it was obvious that she was already uncomfortable. How is it possible that someone is so careless? Someone who's been doing this for 20 years? We can only ask ourselves what was in the background here. Was it a directive? Was it a red instruction that this was brotherly help to Milanović, who actually turned the electoral body back then because it had previously indicated that HDZ would win with a two-thirds majority? But in the end it was unsuccessful, because today in Croatia the HDZ government, Milanovic is history. Or was it what they were told to do, perhaps green? I don't know, but I certainly don't believe in this kind of naivety. What is the problem that affects today's meeting is whether everything has really been done in Slovenia to minimise the possibility of something like this happening. And my answer is, it just wasn't. It was partial, but it wasn't complete. And right in the part where the Ministry didn't do what I thought it would be necessary to do, it opened up room for this story. If Mr Sekolec and Mrs Drenikova had the appropriate equipment, she would have been properly trained, then at least what if Mr Sekolec had used an open line, Mrs Drenikova would probably have reacted differently than she did, and everything that happened could not have happened. Today, this is why we are in an extremely awkward situation. The situation when we ask ourselves what will happen to arbitration, whether the court will be able to continue or not. The decision is theirs, and it is theirs, and we can no longer influence it in any way. And this is a very unpleasant situation. An unpleasant situation, because we have done it to an unnecessary extent ourselves with irresponsible conduct, which has materialised even in the warning of the arbitral tribunal, that everyone, specifically, was also said by the Minister, refrain from making statements that do not provide a good solution. Defending ourselves because this applies to everyone is not very convincing. The fact is, one of the principles of diplomacy is that you can keep your mouth shut at the right time. In English it's super good to say, "You should never miss a good opportunity to shoot up." And it would be nice if we had a minister who could speak English enough to stick to it. For when you boast in advance, you do nothing but a favor to the other side. You can go for your personal promotion to sacrifice the interests of the state of Slovenia, but, excuse me, no one has this right. In fact, this has to a large extent happened in this case, regardless of what is the biggest problem. If it is then said that this is not the reason to dismiss the minister, I would remind you that this is merely an act, irresponsible, of some others who have acted in one way or another, I would remind you that in the past there have been such standards and they have been respected. There was, for example, an act in Celovac, with which the then interior minister had no connection, but he had to go. There are also some similar examples from Slovenian history that I could count. But like I said before, this was true at the time of some other coalitions. At the time of that coalition, which swore on the principle of responsibility, however, the responsibility lies with the following principle: For a patchwork of immediate withdrawal, for some electronics you can quietly continue your work, for 20 000 illegally acquired euros and you are the best problem this year, but if you instill some 100 million in Ljubljana's money and arbitration agreement, which is a vital interest of the State of Slovenia and therefore at least objectively responsible, then you are untouchable. I don't know if the electorate and the electorate will fully agree with this principle of yours, I must say. Let us think for a moment that we would not, today, support the decision before you that if the Minister himself cannot exercise enough responsibility to exercise that responsibility, you should vote in favour of the discharge of the Minister. We will certainly do this in the SDS, because it is very strange, which has also happened here today, when it was said roughly like this by one of the parties that we will not, we do not support the minister, not at all, but we will not support the interpellation. You know, you can tell someone who's maybe two years old, a three-year-old would believe that, talking to adults like that, but it's inappropriate. It's just as inappropriate as making a fool out of one's own country. Because, of course, 46 votes are needed to be resolved, and whoever abstains, or who needs to go out for lunch or something else, of course, equally objectively supports this policy, supports the government coalition and supports Minister Erjavac and thereby saves the government, as does those who directly vote against the resolution. And then, of course, if a party does so, I am not surprised that yesterday there was a very unusual situation where the Minister of the Interior was ardently defending the two paragraphs of the 51st article, which were the only good solution in the law that had exacerbated the conditions for asylum because it had prevented asylum shopping – which, by the way, international law did not allow – and then, on the proposal of the United Left, the whole coalition was happy to delete that part. And given that this particular part of the minister was so fiery and even argued well, I'd be pretty sure she didn't know you were going to do it, which means you're on dry ground, nice not to say anything. [[…]] Apparently, when the left comes together, it has a very strange logic, then it is — What do you call it? - Smell. Now, of course, we come up with the last problem we face lately every day and in which he played a major role and should also have had an external minister, that is the issue of the migration crisis. For some time, the Foreign Minister even led the body that coordinated these activities and was later released. And what was going on there? There, despite warnings, despite the timely forecast and what will happen, despite timely solutions, the government did not do what was necessary. In the beginning they went to paint a little bit and explained how this would all go through Slovenia. We've heard it a hundred times: everything is under control. We have always heard from the Foreign Ministry: everything is agreed with our neighbours. When we warned that these agreements would not hold up, because for the first time, we know our neighbours, and for the second time, this crisis is so deep, so great that even if there is an agreement meant to be well-intentioned, it is very quick to dissipate itself when a country faces pressure from the migratory flow, it has literally been ridiculed. But then the moment of truth came. It turns out that no agreement is valid, and worst of all, because of all these wrong moves, Slovenia has become a precursor to all of Europe, half a million migrants have gone through Slovenia, you could say virtually everyone is completely illegal, has fallen Schengen, you can say that the implementation of the Schengen is the responsibility of the interior minister, here I would agree with you. But I'm sorry, but what the neighbors are doing is the Foreign Minister. And much of what is to the detriment of Slovenia has also arisen with the consent of even the Slovenian government, i.e. the foreign minister. And what's really going on? Slovenia is increasingly pushing itself into one role, which is by no means good. If they closed the border in time, declared consistent respect for Schengen, therefore a prison for migrants, the flow would be diverted somewhere else and Slovenia would be protected in this way. And so it relied on the agreements on Germany’s recommendations, and at times, it was likely that some were somewhat blindly fulfilled without thinking about what that meant later. And today, with regard to foreign policy in an absurd situation, that Slovenia, which was a full-fledged member of the Schengen, was one of the biggest gains of the Janša government in 2007, today seems to be self-evident, at that time even by no means self-evident, because the whole action within certain countries in the European Union was that Slovenia would not be taken along and we had yet to prove, those who were there, you know that we are able to actually exercise control of our borders, that we are able to actually exercise control of our territory. We had to prove this to the international community at the time. And because of one frivolity last summer and the fall, we wasted it all. For what are our dear neighbors doing today? There we have an army on the Italian border, and we have an army on the Austrian border, and the fences are still growing, of course there is no free border crossing. Those who have not yet felt it on their own, wait for the snow to drop, and you will try to go where you used to be trained, and anywhere a little over, there will be a terrible problem and you will see what draconian punishments have been passed. This is the responsibility of the Foreign Minister, because he should have responded in time to avoid such a situation. Yes, it is. Only then do you have to think in advance. This is called the foreign policy strategy, ladies and gentlemen. Some of you didn't even want to talk about it in this House, some of you also agreed a few days ago by voting that you don't even have to get to know this Parliament. Then you must be aware that the responsibility of those who drive and implement such a policy is even greater. What does it mean for Slovenia to lose something she already had? It means a huge human problem and it means economic loss, it means direct loss in numbers that is huge. This wrong strategy in the area of this biggest foreign policy challenge in the past period has led Slovenia to an absurd situation where not only did the current government have to spend € 123 million in its own budget to do so, but the economy still has enormous damage, which is already due to this closure of borders. Before that, the Chamber of Commerce is warned by entrepreneurs, but that's not what they want to hear. This is the damage caused by the wrong foreign policy strategy, ladies and gentlemen. And with the concrete mistreatment of the entire government, if you like, but today we are talking about foreign policy. When properly confronted, it will also be possible to see what was happening here. I would remind you that just a month and a half ago I proposed a decision to work with the Multi-Garden Group, it was said that this was not a problem, goodbye, and you voted against it smoothly. This decision fell, and the government also agreed. Today it is done quite differently, today with the Visegra Group trying to defend itself together, establish a line at the Greek-Macedonian border, which is the right decision. But where were you a month and a half ago, and where were you, especially six, seven and more months ago, when I first proposed this, when the party president proposed it was written, a written proposal was given? That was taken literally with a laugh at the time. And the consequences of that now come back like a big boomerang. For what will we now do in the field of foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, when they deliver us migrants that we will not be able to send to anyone else? And that's exactly the most problematic ones they're going to reject elsewhere. And that's already happening so there won't be any mistake. Will the foreign minister then go down to Morocco if the Germans failed when they wanted to convince them to take their backs and there is no war there, of course? Of course he won't be able to do that. This is what the foreign policy strategy is called, or, in its own words, it is necessary to think earlier and to act responsibly, ladies and gentlemen. Not like this government, this minister and this coalition. That's the problem. Well, then he listens when it's too late for everything when there's no other idea. You've done this now, and now you're selling what the SDS proposed so many months ago as your own imagination. Or Cerar, for example, does it, and the minister does it. But time has passed, no one can return this time. No one will ever be able to repay the loss of our entrepreneurs. Lost opportunities, development opportunities for Slovenia no one will be able to repay. This is what we are talking about today when we are talking about the inadequacy of foreign policy, the fact that it was actually working without one serious strategy, sometimes very unilaterally, and therefore today the consequences are harmful. There are a lot of other things that ask questions. You have to work with everyone, every entrepreneur knows that. And the country acts as a big business in this respect in the international community. But under this minister and during the time of this government, it was very unilateral. There's only one side that's too much to lean on. What does that mean in practice? That, on the other hand, his interest had decreased. People have been given this as a signal that we are no longer interested, either in the situation or in all the things that some cooperation in some international integration has offered us. How many times was the Foreign Minister in the United States?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u195	A little peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u196	I seriously doubt that there are many times. I mean, exactly zero. And this is one of the biggest economic forces in the world. Where have we been in this area? What about working with others? Cooperation with the Visegraj Group was now saved by the President of the State when he went up, and so on and so forth. I'm not saying nothing was done, but ladies and gentlemen, it was too slow, too little and too late. That's why someone should answer, because it's a responsibility to people, because it's not a problem for us in the opposition. The problem is because of you and the problem is for citizens and citizens who are watching all of this, who are experiencing all of this and who rightly expect that no one will give priority to anyone in front of their own people, and that is what is happening at this point. And then you get in a position just because of such a wrong policy, when one part of the policy is hiding behind covered people with sticks in their hands, and the other part has a toast in their hands and they're saying songs. It's a great position. But you will not believe this, too, is a partial responsibility of foreign policy, in the part where it was not able to react decisively enough in time, to see what was going to happen and to see how things would proceed. Well, that was possible. If those of us in the opposition knew how to calculate this, I'm sorry, but there will be a government with all its apparatus. But apparently it was better to take pictures. And we are back in the form of immaculateness and pompousness, which is the main problem of Slovenian foreign policy at the moment. To deal with things unfairly, to reject everything, to be made out of all the work of a fool. But we are talking about the specific lives of all people in this country, the quality of their lives, the success of our entrepreneurs, that's what we're talking about when we're talking about foreign policy. This has very concrete material consequences, both of them. When seeking cooperation, there must be cooperation on all sides. This country has given Russia a huge advantage in recent times. It is good that we have good relations with the Russians, but we are also members of the NATO Alliance, if no one has noticed, and we are included in the European Union and we have allies on the other side of the Atlantic. This was given much less attention. When it comes to what the external policy of the European Union is, it is a problem because there are so many different interests here and so many egoisms that it is very difficult to draw as a whole and to offer as, I don't know, a bombastic intervention by Slovenia in some of these situations, but of course no one takes it seriously in the international community. No one's taking this seriously. Anyone who claims otherwise or deceives himself or his country makes a fool of himself. But this has also been done and this has been offered as the greatest achievements in the field of foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Then where are we going? We find ourselves in an absurd position when individual human resources solutions offered are offered in a completely wrong way, when it is known in advance that money will be spent, for example, for the UN President's candidacy. On the other hand, there is no real word for seeking help from the allies. Or even this is rejected, as has been the case in individual cases. But that doesn't seem strange to anyone. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, this is your no-good attitude towards your own country. This is your no relation to the people who make up this country, because this country is all of us together. And this conversation of yours, rudely, rudely, right now, is a beautiful reflection of that clownry that was a red thread all day in this national council and was considered a whole coalition and another extension of their opposition. This is your relationship with the country of Slovenia. That is why everything is wrong in Slovenia. Therefore, in Slovenia we have not even taken care of our borders at this time, we have not implemented the rules. Where is the responsibility for non-compliance with international treaties? The state of Slovenia has not fulfilled them for a number of months, and therefore this reaction of the neighbouring countries I have been talking about has occurred. And to make excuses for that, yes, because others are also violating it, it's kind of a bad comfort. This, ladies and gentlemen, must be thought first of what will happen. Because it was clear in advance that the borders would begin to close, that then Slovenia would be in an awkward situation and that then Slovenia would be cut off from Schengen in the international community, which would be to the detriment of Slovenian entrepreneurs and Slovenian people. Where is your responsibility here now? But when it was time for things to be different in order to find other allies, to put them at a strategic level differently in the field of foreign policy, they were making a fool of themselves. Just like now with the chat that's still going on in this room. Let's listen a little bit to your relationship. That's not how it works, ladies and gentlemen. And the irresponsibility that characterizes this coalition costs this country enormously. This irresponsibility, ladies and gentlemen, is not just a matter of talking, it is the material irresponsibility that I will once again take. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u197	A little peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u198	This is the material irresponsibility, when someone loses a job for a pate, for a few parts of one motorbike can continue it if he steals 20,000 euros is great, but if he incurs arbitration and the Ljubljana Bank or a few hundred million euros of Slovenian taxpayers, it is untouchable. What kind of signal do you give if we're talking about leadership by example of a younger generation? You steal a lot, then you're great. This is about what a younger generation can pull out of your behavior when a question of the principle of responsibility is asked. If you steal for a little bit, you're going to piss, I don't like it, you're going to steal for a lot, that's who we are in power! That's your logic of responsibility and your morals. Ladies and gentlemen, such politicians, such irresponsible politicians, such destructive politicians for Slovenia should be said: No! And she needs to be told not to be clear and resolute. And today we would have had the opportunity to start doing something different, for one day we would have to start doing something different. I'm sure we should have done something different for a long time, but it will be necessary, but you've been acting like a fool all day long, and you're forgetting that you're talking about the lives of concrete people, the quality of their lives, the values of their lives. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u199	Can I have some peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u200	on the issue of prosperity, prosperity, which is also based on international cooperation, whether or not the State is successfully exercising its interests in the international field. [[…]] And Slovenia certainly does not at this time, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever claims that Slovenia is successfully exercising its interests in the international field at this time is either blind or making a fool out of everyone, even if someone says it out loud, even if the minister loses his reputation. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u201	Could there be some peace in the hall, please? Those of you who don't want to be in there talking, get out.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u202	Slovenia lost its position in the international field several years ago. She's lost her reputation. She's lost her influence. And she's lost many allies. Now is the time to set up a new framework with a change in the position of minister in order to find other allies. The last-minute shifts made by the President of the State and some others are going in the right direction. Only someone for past mistakes, for past late reactions, for the past completely missed positioning of the country of Slovenia as those through which the entire migration flow runs, but someone should answer. Someone must be responsible for the damage caused by the wrong moves on the issue of the Ljubljana Bank in Croatia or its savers, and in Serbia, Bosnia and so on. Someone has to answer the question of everything because there has been an arbitration. There is no responsibility in this country. And then you wonder if anyone has any confidence in the country or in its institution. They used to have them. And don't be surprised if any of the responsibilities in the field of foreign policy, where it's hugely lost, doesn't want to apply, don't be surprised if people, young people, prospective entrepreneurs go abroad because they just don't believe that they'll ever experience a time of change, a time of better life, a time when they're willing to cooperate, a time that we should have, and something that we once had. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we're dealing with. If the Republic of Slovenia in the international world of the international community, international integrations in which it is no longer able to exercise its vital interests in real terms, if what it endured, which was essentially a punishment, such as the arbitration agreement, was the penalty for the humiliating conduct of the Pahor government, which initially stopped Croatia, and then fell down on the line when the international community came to an end, but what it had gained was no longer able to enforce, then something is seriously wrong. But the first question that is then always asked is the question of responsibility. Responsibility for wrong conduct, lack of strategy, wrong positioning, wrong moves, even if they have been made in good faith or do not know from saving that some equipment has not been procured, say, against listening or something like that. It is easy to speak in good faith, but, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to international politics, there is no room for naivety. International policy today requires extremely high professionalism, great knowledge, consistency and, of course, if you want, the ruthless exercise of the interests of the State and its citizens and citizens in the international community. Whoever doesn't respect it, whoever's doing the clown is always doing the fool's job briefly and with him the country that represents it. And here we have to ask whether Slovenia really deserves better. I am firmly convinced and my colleagues in the SDS also that Slovenia has people who will certainly lead the field of foreign policy in an incomparable manner, that Slovenia also has sufficient knowledge in diplomacy, in order to make much more effective the interests of Slovenia, Slovenian entrepreneurs in the search for partners, in finding connections in the world than it is now. Just give them a chance. The opportunity is here and now, by voting in favour of the discharge of Minister Karl Erjavac for all the mistakes I've made. Each of them would be sufficient in a normal country to relieve the minister, most likely in a country where we would respect a minimum political culture, ethics and morality, what this ruling coalition swore in its words, of course, the minister had already given up on his own. However, if I could not do so, his coalition would certainly have helped him by his vote, and such a proposal would probably have been made by the President of the Government. In one serious democratic country. And you ask yourself, what country did you make this happen and you swear to one thing all day? Any argument is presented, the working coalition of fools, the work of the minister of fool, then there are personal conflicts, but this is not a debate that would be worthy of the state of Slovenia. But it's not a matter of those who are alerted to mistakes, it's a matter of those who have made mistakes, and those you want in the coalition put under the rug. Slovenia would still need a strong and good foreign ministry with an appropriate foreign minister. I'd have needed it yesterday. Today is the only chance for quite some time by voting for a resolution. We will, of course, do so in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u203	The word for the replica is by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. I don't want to be insulting to other Members of Parliament, to all other Members present, to some people here crying, I can't anymore. I enjoyed listening to this even today’s session, and I don’t think it’s such a waste of time after all. It saddens me that it wasn't more meaningful. Mr Grims, with whom you are agreeing on many points today, I must admit, it was somehow in the dramatic bow that he turned how we all worked clowns up and down. One student who may have to do a degree at Dr. Brglez's will find out when he will watch this magnetogram, that I was probably the one who made the most effort at this meeting to get at least some sense of normality. Now I'm not going to ask Mr Grimes to apologize to me, but in this argument, I liked this speech, I listened to it, there was this diplomatic attitude – they're going to beat me inside, here, Violet is looking at me strangely – but somehow he couldn't get out of this beating of the United Left. I have worked very hard at this meeting to make it appropriate for what was the purpose of this point, unfortunately I was here by some lone Mohican. Let us leave aside how the SDS has again rowed the coalition regarding the timetable at the 16th session, that this is already happening – Jani, come on, please teach them yours – but this is so, he took advantage of his opportunity. I am also glad that he said "everyone in this Slovenia". However, the key problem with Slovenian policy is the lack of copyright. For 25 years, someone has been doing this country, and we would have needed a good foreign ministry by then. We know when the Ljubljanska Bank came into being, how you cheated on it at the time with constitutional law. We know how it got erased and so on. I have a big head. “We are all interested in the girls”, says our youngest. And then when we talk about it, Mr Grimes also mentioned logic, I grew up when we studied pascal, I also programmed in FORTRAN and similar languages, and I have this logic, and I will not tolerate this beating until I am in this mandate. And I will always use these possibilities to logically pull the issue out and to look into the history of who did something. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u205	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you. If you can only remind the respected Dr. Duck that in my words I have not read anything to the United Left if he is exercising his interests and his ideology and his suggestions. What I was surprised to see was the coalition holding the staff, including the quality of the Republic of Slovenia's foreign policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u207	I'll answer those two first. First of all, in this procedure, it was a problem with a replica. On the other hand, the replica is partly a reflection of someone being recognized in it, I admit it is possible, but it was not carried out in a way that would suit the process itself. Would it be possible to interrupt and continue the meeting? No, you can't. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u208	Look, Mr President, I've had the time I had, I've come to you, I've announced the replica, I've recognized myself in what Mr Grims said, the coalition and part of the opposition are clowns. Pika. It is a procedural proposal, we stick to the rules of procedure at last, or we burn it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u209	We also have the opportunity to change it, and procedures are under way for this. We are certainly continuing and moving on to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the Minister and both representatives of the proposer are given the floor. First of all, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. After such a discussion, which lasted for many hours, I can only find that the actual interpretation was unfounded, has no content, there would be little meeting, and I would also be responsible for any climate change, if I were already in charge of the Ljubljana Bank, for migration and could also mention what the Minister for Foreign Affairs is responsible for. As far as the Ljubljana Bank is concerned, I do not understand why this problem was not solved when Slovenia gained independence. At that time, it was the right time for these things to be settled, probably the limit. Today we have practically 25 years of our country, and we are still solving some unresolved problems. And of course, the main culprit is Karl Erjavec. I am hearing that I am to blame for the hundreds of millions of euros that this country will have to pay. I mean, these are really absurd claims. In doing so, I would remind you that the memorandum in Mokricah was signed by the then Prime Minister of the Government, the President of your party, along with Zoran Milanović and obviously Croatia, but they do not want to respect this memorandum. And now, of course, Karl Erjavec is responsible for all of this. It is also Karl Erjavec who is responsible for the actions brought in the 1990s by Bosnian savers before the European Court of Human Rights. Now, I don't know if there should be a lawyer for the Republic of Slovenia, I don't think that's the job of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. So I have to say, it's interesting to hear that. It's about migration. I don't know, I wasn't the one who invited migrants to Slovenia, to Europe, come, we need you, but it was someone else who was in your political family home. It would be good to talk to the person who is a member of your political European family at some point, why he invites all these migrants. Finally, let them say how much they are willing to accept, but it would be easier to arrange or fly tickets from Istanbul and take them where they want to be. Why do we torture these people to risk their lives in the Aegean Sea, Greece, on the Balkan route, and in Slovenia they also experience terrible things. But if something terrible is not happening to them, but they are a terrible threat, we are living in a very dangerous situation. Our people are threatened every day, every day we read reports of Slovenians being beaten by migrants, wanting to create some impression of chaos in Slovenia. In doing so, we have been having ongoing discussions on the migration crisis since September. Nobody got hurt! No Slovenian citizen, no migrant. So here I have to congratulate the Slovenian police again, including the Slovenian Army, especially all those who work voluntarily: humanitarian organisations, the Red Cross, Karitas. This responsibility to impose on the Minister of Foreign Affairs that he may be responsible for the war in Syria, Iraq, I may even be responsible for the establishment of the so-called Islamic State or DAES. I hope you're not serious about this. Even with regard to the South Stream, I don't know if you expect Vladimir Putin to convince him to revive this project. On the other hand, I constantly listen to the evidence of how inappropriate and inappropriate Slovenian foreign policy is, because it also maintains some normal relations with the Russian Federation. I keep hearing that I've never been to the United States of America. Every year. As a result of the General Assembly of the United Nations, and several times today, I have said that I have had several conversations with Secretary of State John Kerry, including Hillary Clinton, at the very edge of my conversation, so I don't understand these visions. Of course, tourism doesn't go to go anywhere without it. That would be very irresponsible. However, I am interested in something, now whether this entire four-year term is so catastrophic, I think, even in 2012, I was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs in February. What was it like when I was a year old and a few other foreign ministers in your government? I don't know why the president, the then Prime Minister, offered me this position if you don't think I speak English, I don't speak French. I don't know if you think I'm talking to my fingers there. It's really funny to listen to these discredits. Maybe I'll come to some talk class with my fingers. Since the Minister for Foreign Affairs should at least be an English professor, a French professor, an Italian professor, I don't know what else, because the Slovenian language doesn't matter anyway. The Slovenian language is actually the basis for our nationality, Slovenian culture. Given the fact that he's still available for a while, I'd like those answers. What was that assessment of my work as Minister of Foreign Affairs during your government? I guess it'll be great, because I was well-guided, I faithfully followed all the instructions. In 2013, when she became Prime Minister, Alenka Bratušek, the matter has changed a little. I didn't do it like that anymore. So once again, I'm assessing that this interpolation is unnecessary, unwarranted. I'm sorry, this day is lost. You can claim he's not lost. But I'm sure the public recognized that today was lost, or yesterday. Because I can see we're already on a new day. The interest of the media also shows that this interpolation is actually empty. Because if you had any content, believe me, there would be a lot of media, lots of cameras. Today, interestingly, practically no one was there. The media themselves said that this interpolation does not have the content that it is intended primarily for political accounting, in particular by one party. But it is true that the opposition as a whole then tries to defend it if you have already signed. That's right and that's right, I get that. But I repeat again, but I am sure that if we were first signed by the SDS party, I do not think there is any division here, because I think that New Slovenia still has no perspective, especially if Aleš Primc will set up a party, now he has the opportunity to do so in the coming weeks, because this shock that New Slovenia has experienced today will leave consequences. You've proven that you don't have to successfully implement this project yet. This is said to be the discharge project of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This will be a failed New Slovenia project. Yeah, it's true. I would like to thank the Members of the Coalition for their support, for their quality debate, for their professional debate. I would also like to thank the members of the opposition, especially those who did not go to personal discredit, but went to a substantive debate, and I thank you for thinking it is also important that we give the right signals from this Parliament. And the real signal is that we have substantive discussions. It's not like it's a set-up or something. Now, about the arbitration, I had to hear that we didn't provide secure phone lines and that the wiretap affair wouldn't have happened if we had provided you with a secure phone line. Once again, for the Slovenian public: communication between the Sekolec arbitrator, this is said between the arbitral tribunal and the party in the proceedings, what is Slovenia, is prohibited under all the principles of international law, under all the principles of procedural law. If I had been assured, then I would have been objectively responsible for allowing and encouraging communication between a member of the arbitral tribunal and Slovenia or an agent representing Slovenia. That would be a violation. And not only objective responsibility, but even subjective responsibility. As for the secure telephone lines between the project group and between the agent and the law firm, that's what we've assured. But look, no one could have imagined that an arbitrator who was a member of the arbitral tribunal would be looking for communication with our agent. He called, he led the talks. Those of you who listened to these listeners may have found out that the agent never called, and she never had any such instructions. And now, because of this lewdness, the minister is supposed to be objectively responsible. I would recommend to Mr Branko Grimes that he lead an important Security Services Supervisory Commission, that our security services might check why this has happened. What was the motive of Sekolec's arbitrator for calling our agent and thus causing this wiretap affair? As I recall, at that time, you immediately after a wiretap, praised the work of our security services for doing their job perfectly. Perhaps it would be an interesting answer to what the SOVA has found in this regard, what our security services have found in relation to the conduct of Sekolec's arbitrator, since, after all, it is necessary to know, we will have additional costs in place to have a decision by the arbitral tribunal in December, the procedure will be delayed. This will result in costs. And then I will hear how the Minister for Foreign Affairs is responsible for these costs and who will pay for it. I think whoever did this has to pay. But I'm sure it's not Karl Erjavec. I wasn't on the phone. But it is certain from the hearings that the arbitrator Sekkolec called. It was a mistake our agent didn't reject that call. And if she did what she was taught, it wouldn't even happen. And even more surprising is that this happened after the main proceedings were concluded and practically the matter matured for a decision. Therefore, Croatia was also looking for a way to discredit the arbitral tribunal. Once again, if not today, we have had the opportunity to present to the Slovenian public what is actually happening in Slovenian foreign policy, what we are dealing with, we have good results in the field of economic diplomacy. I said, the board of directors of the Chamber of Commerce gave me a round of applause for my past work and also for my future work. Even if our policy is too Russian, too American, I can say it's balanced. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u211	Replica, Mr Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u212	Yeah, if we go our separate ways. I then commended the services that they had done everything in their power, but not the foreign ministry. For the criterion was the same as I have today, only whether everything was done in the foreign ministry, what was in their power or not, and the answer is simple, it is not. And that opened the way for what happened. Why there are no media today, it is clear to the media that it is obvious that because you are known that the coalition will save its chairs, not the state of Slovenia, and therefore they know that there is no possibility of discharge of the minister and that they are not here. I wouldn't be bragging about it if I were you. That says a lot about the coalition, nothing about what the arguments are. Now, as far as Mr Janša is concerned, that agreement with Croatia was signed in such a way that things returned to the beginning and could wait. Then there were some moves that were or could have been well-intentioned because of me, but they were naive. And that's why today we're facing the problem that we're talking about. When you talked about going to the UN, it didn't bilateralize with the United States, but it certainly hasn't been for a while. But when you mention Mrs Merklova, Merklov has, which is always forgotten, a coalition with socialists and socialists has always seen new voters in migrants at the first left reflection. And that's why it started in Europe: Come on, everybody! And Mrs Merklov gave her coalition an obvious advantage over her own party. Those of you who do not know this have already signed 100 of its Members that we should go. Not to mention her partners, it is called the Bavarian CSU, who have already practically broken up a long-standing alliance with the CDU or the CS in the CDU. Thus, when it comes to these people, everyone must be responsible for his work, as is the case, of course, with the Foreign Minister, who is responsible for the position of the State of Slovenia within the international community in this story. And she was in the wrong position. And that's coming back to her today as a boomerang.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u213	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Andrej Shircelj, please? Procedural? Replica on? Replica, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u214	Thank you so much for the time we have, boys. [[…]] [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u215	The debate is still [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u216	With regard to the minister's criticism that the interpolation was empty, he made an extraordinary effort to write 27 pages in the blank. It's amazing. So if something is empty and there's nothing to build on, he's done times three of his answers. The second problem today is that the Minister’s answers were empty or absent at all. We do not know if we know all about the arbitration agreement in the National Assembly, despite all the efforts, the fairs, the closed sessions of the National Assembly, then the presentations in that closed hall and so on. Because every time a minister says anything about an arbitration agreement, he says something different. We do not know whether the Minister has done everything necessary in relation to migrant projects or matters. It's not Angela Merkel's problem. We're not dealing with it. We are talking about whether Slovenia has done what the Slovenian government has done what we expected it to do. It was a big choice. You had all the scenarios and all the answers. You were against fences or technical barriers, fences and so on. You could have chosen any choice, Slovakia, Hungary, you chose the worst. And the responsibility of the minister, one, the other, and the third, who participated in this project is inevitable. With regard to Mr Janša and the time of the ministry you held there, you must have been put on the right track, because what you had prepared in agreement with Croatia at the time had to be stopped and taken away from the Minister of Power not because of the withdrawal from the coalition, but because of the stupidity he had prepared. If someone doesn't believe it, let's take a look back. And perhaps this loyalty shown by the coalition to the minister, perhaps even by some move, has been observed in some media that certain things in support of interpretation should also be resolved by some employment issues between the largest coalition party. This may also be one of the reasons for such firm and firm support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u217	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I was personally disappointed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs' responses. I must say that those questions, which have been substantively asked, have not actually been answered. Whether the answers have been bogged down or minimised. Today we have not received an answer to what the Slovenian foreign policy is, in fact, what is the strategy, especially how this strategy is implemented through the documents we have today in Slovenia, both the declaration and the strategy. There were also no answers to some key questions. Key questions about whether this policy is actually balanced, not only is it said to be, but also to answer those questions, on those issues, statements if you want, which prove that it is not balanced. Here, I'm sorry, the Minister for Foreign Affairs didn't give an answer. He also gave no answers as to how he sees Slovenia within the framework of the associations we went to, within the framework of the European Union, within the framework of NATO. He didn't even say where he was or where he saw his effectiveness. Unfortunately, matters, particularly those to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not have an answer, are being trivialised if you want, even with some of his humor, but forgive me, this is not the first time that foreign policy has been pursued and the second time that does not answer questions from Members and Members. Also, that some of my colleagues are talking about a lost day, about how ultimately this interpolation is irrelevant, unchallenged and so on, see, this gives value to your work. Interpellation is justified, is in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution, is in accordance with Slovenian legislation and is in accordance with the democratic system we have here. If anyone wants to mention totalitarian systems, there was no such interpretation, but today the opposition has this possibility because we are in democratic order. Any association on how foreign policy today is a matter of the survival of Slovenia and so on, all of this is actually unfounded. It is not justified, in particular, because it is simply a political instrument of a democratic society. If we are talking about individual parts of this Slovenian foreign policy, then we can say that it is very difficult to find someone who is successful and who would enhance Slovenia's reputation. Today, of course, we can talk about this, economic diplomacy, for example, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' thanks to economic diplomacy, I think the effects of this economic diplomacy, led by Minister Erjavec, are too weak. The documents mention the transport link, the railway link – it is not. She's been gone a long time, and I think he's put a few governments through, and it's just not a solution here. This government has no solution either, and this is also a first-class issue of economic diplomacy. Just like when we're talking about capital that's supposed to invest in Slovenia. Sorry, that's not it. We are on the tail about this and here too the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a significant role to play. The reason why the Minister for Foreign Affairs is guilty, look, and I find it kind of ugly to mention why the border was not resolved in 1990 or 1991, why certain matters in history did not happen. Minister Erjavec, when you accepted the position of Minister for Foreign Affairs, you were probably familiar with all these circumstances and did not apologize for any history that you knew exactly what it was like, at least you should know as a candidate for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As a result, of course, these arguments may be funny to someone, perhaps they can smile at this, but, after all, they are sad that the Minister for Foreign Affairs relies on arguments that are not in fact, which are simply empty straw, and that does not lead to foreign policy. I have certainly said it several times today, and I have not received an answer on the pro-activity of Slovenian foreign policy. Both the proactiveness of migration and the pro-activity of all issues addressed at European Union or NATO level. I also did not get an answer why the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not ask the issue of financing the Slovenian Armed Forces within the framework of NATO, where other countries are paying our security instead. This and all these actions of Slovenian foreign policy have led to the loss of the reputation of Slovenia. This also shows some of the international analyses mentioned and to which I also did not get any answers. There were no substantive answers to that. More than the fact that the author of this analysis is a friend of Croatia, more than that has not actually been said. And something else about France and Turkey. But where Slovenia's position is in this analysis, there was not a word about it. For this reason, I am simply disappointed with the Minister for Foreign Affairs' comments and therefore I find the interpretation completely self-evident. And it's not an empty interpolation, there are empty answers that the minister tried to give, but in fact, there were no substantive answers. And that's why I think it's entirely justified for us to talk about this today. Perhaps we will, I hope, somewhere else, anyway, about Slovenian foreign policy with Minister Erjavac or any other minister. But you will certainly have to talk about it and it is essential that you do. As a result, there are also comments on the question of empty interpolation and so on, I think, in my opinion, groundless. Before that, there are empty answers to that, and of course I suggest you support this interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u219	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm very concerned about this country. If colleagues and colleagues in Demos were as dismembered as today's coalition, we would never have a country. Here someone goes on like a joke, some people laugh, get down on their knees, I'm really worried. But people watch, they pay us, you run this country. The minister says we're telling him that he founded DAESH, that he started a war in Syria – where does it say that? And in some connection with Aleš Primc, Aleš Primc is a friend of mine. You've already forgotten that at the referendum we set you so on fire that today your head is still burning with Aleš Primac. You forgot a little bit, didn't you? Look, you're saying there should be a better text, that you expected a better text. Great, so you know more than we do, you know more about what was wrong with the arbitration. I have now learned something, and even with the Ljubljana Bank, I have now learned a little more in a closed session. Thank you all for confirming that the meeting has closed. Thank you. And I have worked very closely as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee with Mrs Simona Drenik. Today I see that she, in addition to the Republic of Slovenia, is the biggest victim of this. It was arbitration and it was her child. The new head of the task force is also a great lady, but what you're doing to Mrs Simoni, I don't know if you're right.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u221	I'm closing the debate on interpolation. The decision on the proposal will be made in 15 minutes, so I will end the 9th agenda item and the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, which will continue at 00.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u222	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the Interpellation on the work and responsibility of Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs. We're moving on to decision-making. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, gives its non-trust to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u223	The New Slovenia delegation will, of course, vote in favour of the discharge of the Minister. Today, however, we have found something that we have the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is not responsible for anything. Would Karl Erjavec be responsible for anything in his political career? For nothing. He was not responsible for Patrie, was not responsible for the cans and was not responsible for the arbitration fiasco or for the savers of the Ljubljana Bank. So, Minister Erjavec always avoids responsibility, so it is not surprising that his colleagues in the cabinet say that the colleges are about such that virtually all things shift down from the agenda because they are not competent, so that in the end there is not much left. Minister Erjavec, if you say that you are not responsible for anything and that you are not guilty of anything, then who is to blame for the millions of damages in the case of the Ljubljana Bank? You were wondering why this problem wasn't solved in the '90s. A territorial principle has been established where each country is responsible for its banks in the territory. The problem was partly solved in 2001 by signing a contract. And what did we have? We had a contract with the Croats, we had a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, and now I would expect at least an in-depth analysis of the Minister today to say what went wrong because we had a decisive tark of cards, and we have lost a great deal. It is hard to imagine that this subject is irrelevant to him, but it is hundreds of millions that we will have to pay for. With regard to arbitration, the Minister also says he is not responsible for anything. Minister, then who will be responsible if we don't get in touch with the high seas if the arbitration fails unfavorably? Who is responsible for the cases where you are warned and the arbitration agreement and the letter from the arbitral tribunal, do not do anything, but do so. If I'm trying to be a bit banal, like you, then there's something similar about you being a bus driver and you're stopped by cops and they tell you, you drive slowly, and the traffic signs ask you to drive slowly, but you freak out eventually cause an accident and you say, because I'm just driving. Okay, but you didn't drive carefully and wisely. With regard to the migrant crisis, the Minister, your colleagues across Europe have come with initiatives, you today have not been able to explain one of your initiatives. In the end, I can answer, we have a minister who will never be responsible for anything in his life.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u224	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u225	Good evening or good morning! Yesterday, Mr. Karl Erjavec said a lapsus. The United Left did not support neither the strategy nor the declaration; in the debate in Parliament we explained why not. Personally, when we say creative coalition, it sounds a little like pleonasm. Of course, we're creative. What else would we be? Our opinion is also, of course, that, in the event of an arbitral fiasco in an approximately normal country, the first man of the foreign ministry should resign. We wanted to participate creatively in this writing of interpretation, but of course because of some differences or frankly, one would get the feeling that someone went to an embassy with a nice kindergarten twice, three times for breakfast, and that all of this then overflowed into this interpretation. Somehow we did not find common paths with the rest of the opposition, because, you know, the foreign policy of the countries of the rank of Slovenia must nevertheless be foreign policy of the country of Slovenia, not pro-American, not pro-Russian; obviously there is little lack of education in current developments in the world, for example, China has not mentioned that it would not talk about any Malaysia or any other countries. Many of the insults have been said here today, which clearly shows that most of you do not understand how it is spoken of when it comes to foreign policy, about undeclared, about paying something to Bosnia and so on. It seems to me that until the United Left has taken over this department, unfortunately many career diplomats will have a more deplorable foreign policy. Now I'm going to take a breather, we're going to abstain from this interpretation, and then I'm going to have a personal explanation of my voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u226	What explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Explanation on behalf of the SD Group of Members, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u227	Thank you very much, President. Our country, policy and government are facing important challenges, spring is coming, a new wave of uncertainty is coming. The State must be prepared for this not only within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also within the Ministry of Interior as the Ministry of Defence and the government as a whole. Minister Erjavec has answered certain questions, it is very important for us Social Democrats how we will approach the future. Not only the question of Palestine, but also in front of the door is a new chapter in the resolution of the arbitration agreement or relationship with Croatia, strengthening relations on the so-called Balkan routes and our neighbouring countries, and, of course, NLB savers. We will not support interpretation, but we will desire not only the government, not only the ministry, but the whole policy of tolerance, a lot of courage in the future and a lot of unity. We will not support the social democrats of interpolation, but we will support courage, support solidarity and, above all, act in the direction of solving the problems we face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u228	Quiet. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, President. Perhaps, dear colleagues and colleagues, you all know that I will tell you that we will not support the interpretations against Foreign Minister Victor Karl Erjavac. This is logical, since in our debate, which we had Members and Members of our Group, we all said that this interpretation was empty, that it was written in a very strange way, on the four sides where you did not actually substantiate any point. Simply and simply, this interpolation was written in such a way that it was inside the hollow and from the outside there was nothing. You haven't substantiated any of this. The minister and all of us worked 14 or 15 hours together to discuss this issue. It is right that we have discussed this, we want to discuss it, but the idea of who is responsible for what, and in no group of Members, no Member and Member should mix. For those matters, why someone is responsible, to be responsible, for those things that some of you have imagined and put on the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and you probably have nothing to answer for. I want to know why we actually had a closed session. Nothing was presented, perhaps because you were talking about a monument to the fallen in the first and second world wars from Russia and perhaps because someone said, secretly at a closed session, that the partisans had liberated Ljubljana, not Russia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u230	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u231	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will, of course, vote unitedly in the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre against the proposal to interpel Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs. On the basis of that part of today's debate, which was actually substantively focused on what today's interpolation is supposed to mean, we were able to see above all that the external policy of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible, comprehensive and uniform, that it has a red thread drawn from the past, and, on the other hand, proactively in the light of all the new circumstances that we face both in our country and in the international community, we are successfully cooperating and co-forming these solutions. But I would like to say the following at this point. Both the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are working in a uniform and politically stable manner. And this is also one of the important additional evidences that we have been able to convince ourselves of through this long debate today. That is why everything is good for both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the current coalition in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u232	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u233	We will, of course, vote in favour of the discharge of Karl Erjavac in the SDS Group because all the reasons given for the interpretation were well founded and the answers are completely empty. The problem we are facing today is that in the face of an indisputable fiasco with arbitration, no one is responsible for it, even it is claimed that there is no foreign minister responsible for it. The question that should be asked by everyone is simple. Has everything, indeed, been done in the power of the foreign ministry to avoid such consequences? And the answer is simple, and you all know it. No, no, no. This is said to be an objective and subjective responsibility. And that alone in any normal country would mean the immediate departure of the foreign minister from the position he holds if he was not able to shoulder his responsibilities, we would help him with the votes. In Slovenia, unfortunately, things are different. In Slovenia there is no reference to the multi-seven-million-dollar damage in euros caused by the wrong moves with regard to the Ljubljana Bank, nor to the fact that our neighbours are sending us an army to the borders because there was no real foreign policy strategy in the face of migration flows. In Slovenia, it is not clear that it is important for the coalition to have real serious, large, measurable and potential material damage due to the closure of borders. That we lost that Schengen that we were all used to, that you went anywhere, anywhere free across the border. That's all gone. All of this is a story that took place during this government and during the time of Minister Karl Erjavac. And you say he's not responsible. What is the question of the responsibility of this government? For one pâté you lose your job, for one motorbike you can continue to work, for more than 20,000 euros you are the best that year, but if you put in arbitration and more than 100 million in the Ljubljana Bank, you are untouchable and unitedly defended by the entire coalition. That's a great responsibility. We do not agree with this in the SDS and, of course, we will vote in favour of the discharge, for the responsibility of the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u234	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. It's not an ad for publishing, it's a book, I was hoping you'd wave, because you're actually more pro-American, with the title: Why the nations are falling. Acemoglu and Robinson. One is a professor of economics at MIT and the other is from the University of Chicago, an economist and a political scientist. In Slovenia, even this book, four years old, is advertised so that every politician should read it. Okay, I have some concerns about this book, but the basic idea is true. Throughout history, they prove the author that in essence society or the subtitle of the book is the Source of the power of prosperity and poverty at different ends of the world, those societies that have inclusive institutions are successful. Which means you have functioning institutions involving people, institutions in which, I don't know, the Undersecretary of State could be both Grims and I – here, Karl reads it or something, within fifty — it's not funny, because in this country and society someone has been trying very hard not to have such institutions. My kids, at least those teenage kids, know who these people are, but I don't somehow force them to be crazy about politics. And it would also be time for an auto-reflex in Slovenian politics. With this reference to the National Assembly, we got a lot of new people who came here, expectations were, they promised, and we were to establish functioning institutions. Today, in fact, or yesterday, we did not talk too much about the institution of foreign policy. We could also discuss the financial part of this at a closed meeting. But you know, talk about some services controlled by KNOVS if you open up a debate here, what are the financial items there and so on, what are the items at the Ministry. I've told you a well-known rule in organization theory, when you spend more than two-thirds of your money on wages, you're developmental. We should be talking about these things and everything I wrote to you yesterday. But unfortunately we didn't do it. And now I cannot vote in favour or against, even for personal reasons, in a debate that was not substantive. However, I hope that we will finally start building many institutions, not in the way that the government will have 272, 325 consultative bodies in between.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u236	Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u237	Has anyone been monitoring why the Serbian Defence Minister had to step down? Because the journalist was kneeling in front of him, she prayed to the microphone like this, and he said he liked to watch the reporters kneeling in front of him. Just so that we know roughly what the standards are down there in the south, which we're making a little mockery of, and what our standards are. For us, Minister Erjavac, there is no disgrace large enough to take responsibility. None. Today we virtually did not listen to the answers, but we listened to the attacks. That's clear. More or less, it did not answer all questions. How, let's say that people will imagine how tactically this would look, was portrayed today by Comrade Jurš, who spoke only about one thing that I spoke about at a closed session, but I talked about three things, namely the arbitration, where I presented a record that has a secret label, and my colleague Jurš should know that if he has a secret record, I cannot operate on them in a public session and quote him. The minutes made it clear what the Ministry had done and what it had not done. I was talking about the Ljubljana Bank, where certain negotiating positions are also marked by secrecy, but you've revealed, and I haven't, and you've revealed the thing that the government has dealt with internally. I don't know if you're going to be punished for these things, like I would be, we'll see about that. But it is not right, Mr Jurša, that you say things the way you do, in a flattened way, two-thirds of things shut up and you say one third.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u238	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Mr. Tomaž Gantar first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone! Of course I won't support interpolation. Today, Minister Erjavec, of course, responded successfully to a series of perceptions that did not actually refer to his work circle, to his or her objective or subjective responsibility. And the arguments fell down during the day like a house of cards. And, of course, I cannot further support such an interpretation based on the principle that when you repeat a lie many times, it becomes the truth. It's just that it doesn't work, and it doesn't always hold that if a lot of smoke is created, there's fire in the background. Even with the closed session, we were expecting a big bang that wasn't there. So the story is completely wrong, empty, you could say in the end: The mountain was shaking, neither was the mouse born. That is why, of course, my voice in such an interpretation will not be.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u240	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u241	Thank you. Let me first explain my vote to vote against the interpretation. However, I would like to make a suggestion from today's debate when we listened to them after a long time. He is responsible for, as the Minister is supposed to be responsible for foreign affairs, for the area of finance, because the bank goes to the Ministry of Finance, this is one area and the other partly the defence. So I propose that we raise his salary or give him some extras for two other ministries in some part, what has been heard today, that he is also subject to or evident responsibility from these two segments. Once again, I won't support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u242	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u243	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not abuse the Rules of Procedure, but I will say that I will vote in favour of the discharge of Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac. I don't mind, ladies and gentlemen, that Karl ever wins. But look, we're here to win Slovenia. Slovenia must win, but with such a policy, with such an economic policy, when every year and every year more people go out of Slovenia, educated, with such an external policy Slovenia cannot win. The remaining questions remain, although I have repeated them several times, today we do not know how the procedure with Palestine will go today, perhaps tomorrow we will discuss this with Mr President of the National Assembly. We do not know why the Ministry of Foreign Policy does not wish to give ADP material after the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy in order to deal with it on our committees or committees, together with our colleague Ivan Hršek, we do not know where the reasons are. And as for the reproof that Slovenia received, or more precisely, Minister Erjavec of the Permanent Court of Arbitration, so I had the feeling that what would be our permanent arbitral tribunal, and several times this document was thrown over my shoulder, that it was nothing. The closed session was extremely useful, at least for me, and I concluded that it would take some time to see where the truth is about this listening affair that still makes Slovenia bleed. These are just a few reasons, but there are many more to support the discharge of Minister Erjavac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u244	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u245	Of course, I will support the interpretation because Foreign Minister Karl Erjavec is doing the damage to Slovenia. We all know that he should have stepped down last July and didn't even bother to come back from vacation and explain how the old ones were going. Even more, with his reckless statements despite warnings, he made strange statements and thus cast a bad light on arbitration. This is what he did to Slovenia. Mr Erjavec also with the ease of shaking other people and washing himself, first Simono Drennik, I have heard our arbitration today. Why did he not report them because they caused damage to Slovenia? I should be responsible for this area. Second thing. I am also concerned about the policy regarding the foreigners in Italy. We know there's been a transformation of local communities. We Slovenians had mayors of small municipalities, and this is now coming together. This issue should also be dealt with intensively by the Foreign Minister, not by the Minister of the Office, because he does not have a suitable interlocutor in another country, but by the Foreign Minister. Statistics show that he visited Italy twice. He was at EXPO, probably wasn't there to solve a minority issue. And thirdly, today he has expressed a great deal of concern for pensioners, as always. I also wish them all good, and a long life to see those thousands of euros finally. He also expressed great concern for New Slovenia that it would not fall out of Parliament. You know, in 2008, Jelinčič considered this to be a success that Nova Slovenije failed, and in 2011 we came to his office. There was a big party here that's not here today, so it can happen to everyone. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u246	Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the resolution. That is because Minister Erjavec had a very good answer to substantive questions and interpretation. Unfortunately, it's really hard to give a good answer to an empty question. I will vote against this because we did not know exactly anything new. At the closed session, we received the same information, which the media had already published a long time ago, so that this was without the need for a pianist gesture on the part of the proposer. I will also vote against this because, at the interpretation of the 26 signatories signed, the co-signatories, today they have only been advocated by interpellation of 7 of them, and I must say that the co-proposer's time has remained due to the fact that in the four years since I have been here in the National Assembly, such a matter has not yet taken place. And of the main players, there were only two advocates of interpellation, I don't know, Mrs. President has now spoken in explanation of vote, I have a feeling Mrs. Dimic hasn't discussed anything at all, Mr. Wrotec, not at all, so I've got a feeling that they don't believe in this interpellation. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u248	Quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u249	And yet the minister has given really comprehensive answers to all things, too comprehensive for my concepts, because really the questions were substantively empty, uninteresting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u250	We're voting. I'm breaking up. I didn't see it. [[…]] Okay. Explanation of Mrs Iva Dimic's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Council of Ministers, coalition, my colleagues and colleagues! But I liked the closed session. I personally have received a variety of views, which, as Members who do not participate in the KNOVS Committee, I must say of great importance. I can't talk about this today, but I can talk about one part because it was already revealed by my colleague Jurša, that Slovenia will be setting up monuments. But to whom? I think this is a matter of concern to the general Slovenian public, all citizens and citizens. I'm grateful. Even to find out what happened with the arbitration, how the records took place, how the instructions went. I think the things that are the most [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u252	A little peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u253	concern citizens and citizens, and those who are most interested remain closed behind these walls. [[…]] In a way, I find this sad, because then people could also create a different view, because people would then know what it means if someone like Mr Karl Erjavec is fighting for their pensions. That is why there are 300,000 in Slovenia who have a lower pension of 600 euros. I think that says enough about what kind of fighters we have in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u254	Explanation of the voice in the hair of Mr. Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u255	Good morning, everyone! I will support the interpretation because I do not agree with the blank, in your vocabulary, an empty foreign policy led by our Foreign Minister, Mr Erjavec. As for the closed session, I am concerned about what we have heard and what we can expect from the following, and I do not imagine the consequences from the moment that the arbitration story may fail. Then Karl will say, "It's not my fault, I didn't know. That's how it's done in this national council. And when I read one tweet today from an intellectual who wrote: “Erjavec deserves today’s interpretation for his behavior.” And if you look at the behavior, you can see not only the shame, but the mockery of people, including the pensioners, of course, even if we have in mind the thousands of euros of pensions promised to them, but also the mockery of people. Cynical remarks, misleading comments, stumbles that ministers in line behind Mr Jerjavec must bend so slightly that the camera does not capture them, because this is embarrassing, I believe. For every ass the stick grows, but I do not imagine foreign diplomats in Slovenia when they have to listen to all this, Mr Erjavec. I can't imagine. And whoever eats another's spear falls by himself. And I wish Mr Sušnik the successful digging of a new party, a pensioner's party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u256	I can see it's gone. [[…]] We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 51. [[Applause]] , [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I find that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, has not been voted on. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow, 15 minutes after the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
