ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 22nd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, Mrs Vesna Vervega by 2 p.m., mag. Tanya Zink, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Marjan Dolinšek by 5 p.m., Mr Marko Ferluga by 5 p.m. and mag. Matthew Tonin. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 22. Period of the day, it's on a stand-up proposal for a finance minister. On 1 September 2016, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar, proposed to the National Assembly that he be appointed Minister of Finance. Matthew the Vranic Erman. I give the floor to Dr Mir Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As has been said, on 1 September 2016, I proposed to the National Assembly that the Minister of Finance be appointed mag. Matthew the Vranic Erman. Mrs Vraničar Erman is a university-graduate lawyer and a magistrate in the field of public administration, who is actively involved in the field of finance almost all the time in her career. As an expert with rich knowledge and experience, she has been active all the time in both domestic and international environments. Her first job was at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then the Republic Secretariat for International Cooperation, where she participated in the preparation of regulations on foreign trade and foreign exchange and in the preparation of legal bases for the establishment of the Slovenian customs service at the time of independence. Since 1993, she has been employed by the Ministry of Finance, where she has performed her duties in various high official and functional positions. It was entrusted with the most demanding tasks, including the coordination and preparation of the first Slovenian customs law, the preparation of regulations and systemic solutions in the field of value added tax, excise duties and other indirect taxes, and the participation in the preparation of professional negotiating grounds for Slovenia's entry into the European Union. During the Slovenian Presidency, the European Union was chaired by the Council working group on tax matters. After 2010, she was in charge of coordinating individual major legislative projects, which were quite significant. There's a mag in this government's mandate. Mateja Vraničar Erman as Secretary of State responsible for the public finances system, public accounting, money laundering and the tax and customs system. The Ministry of Finance is one of the key ministries that can take care of the conditions for sustainable economic growth and the creation of different development opportunities by carrying out the tasks under its responsibility. In order to achieve these objectives, it is essential to ensure a stable public financial environment and a well-functioning financial system in support of the economy. The activities carried out so far by the Ministry of Finance have contributed significantly to positive results in various areas and, as you know, after two years of this government, we have witnessed an increase and stable economic growth. Since 2015, the public deficit has been below 3% for the first time since the start of the crisis, and good results have also been recorded in the labour market. Let me repeat that the number of active workers is increasing. Unemployment fell below 100,000 this June for the first time in six years and almost 50,000 young people were employed in two years of this mandate. These and other results have shown that the activities so far have been properly set and that work needs to be continued, completed and, of course, upgraded. Mag. Mateja Vraničar Erman has been strongly involved in the ministry with her rich work experience and has already had an important impact on the design and implementation of established policies in this area. It has also, as you know, cooperated in the implementation of major government projects and structural reforms, which, while under the authority of other sources, have significant public financial implications. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the candidate for a minister will be able to proceed immediately with the Government's established guidelines and priorities, in all the segments that are important for achieving the economic and public financial objectives of the country, so I propose that the Mag. You're appointing Matthew Vraničar Erman as Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u3	I thank the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the additional explanation. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the candidate presented herself to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. You have received the opinion of the committee. It concludes that the presentation of the proposed candidate was appropriate. The report of the Committee will be presented by the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Urška Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u4	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Mag. Matthew Vraničar Erman is in accordance with the Constitution and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly 7. 9. 2016 presented to the members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and responded to questions raised by members and members. In its opening presentation, the proposed candidate presented an assessment of Slovenia's economic and financial situation, showing economic indicators of the situation, statistics and data on Slovenia's credit rating and competitiveness. It further presented the long-term objectives in the area of finance, highlighting stable public finances, reducing administrative barriers to stable economic growth and stressing solidarity. It also made clear the key financial priorities and highlighted the following: the budgetary area and the consolidation of public finances, the area of taxes and their more efficient collection. It also mentioned the planned introduction of a real estate tax. One priority is also the effective management of the country's capital investments and the renewal of the capital investment management strategy. Regarding the priorities of the financial system, it stressed the sound functioning of the banking system, the functioning of the bad bank and the reduction of the risk of money laundering. In the international financial field, however, it highlighted the activity of co-forming European economic and other policies, the European Semester and the question of succession. In conclusion, it drew attention to the sustainability of public finances aimed at stable and sustainable economic growth and the well-being and dignity of all citizens and citizens. Members and members of the committee asked the following questions about the long-term sustainability of public finances and the pension system, debt and reduction of public debt, regarding further austerity measures, highlighting the issue of local communities, the average municipalities and the issue of minimum wage levels, regarding the functioning of the financial and banking system, highlighting the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, on the effective management of state assets and on the concept of its sale, and on the revised capital investment management strategy. Regarding the tax area, tax policy, tax debt, the introduction of real estate tax and migrant workers were exposed. Questions were also raised regarding the preparation of a new law on gambling, insurance issues, public and private health, investment policy, energy and excise policy. The proposed candidate for minister answered the questions raised by Members and Members and Committee members on some of the issues she has further detailed and concretely informed her views and opinions. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted the opinion that the presentation was magi. Matey Vraničar Erman as a candidate for the Minister of Finance is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat is responsible, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, your co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens, distinguished candidate for Minister of Finance, professor, mag. Matthew Vranick Erman! In fact, Mr President of the Government has acted very logically, he has made a very logical decision, and we, in fact, have expected him to be in the narrower election for the new Minister of Finance after Dr Dusan Mumorr's departure, for whom we somehow regret that he has left in New Slovenia, and logically it has proved to be the right name of the Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, who will probably be the new name of the Minister of Finance. We have known her for a long time, she has always strongly advocated the ideas, political orientations and decisions of her perceived ministers. She was subordinated to several ministers, but she was always passionate about rejecting New Slovenia's proposals. If they were really the worst, I am not sure that many, especially the economists, have assessed our programme, our answers for the future in 2014 as the best programme for successful Slovenia. This programme, and this new economic policy, must include low taxes, simple procedures and an open economy. I'm sure we all agree on this point here, but when we have to move on to reality, then we have a problem or we don't have a croissant. And right now, when there's a good economic climate, here we have to commend the Slovenian economy, and right now, this is what many of us are teaching and teaching us history, it's time for root reforms that we should do, which we should accept here in this house in order to make the younger generations better. I find it hard to accept when I read statistics that after 1991, when we had a war, the war for Slovenia was again a negative migration balance in the first quarter of this year. This balance sheet is minus 205. This means that 205 people have moved more than they have moved to Slovenia. And what is painful is that unfortunately more citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are moving away. And if I'm with people, then here I have to expose the statistics for the first quarter of this year, which say that there were 612 more deaths in Slovenia than there were births. So this balance sheet is also negative, minus 612 for the first quarter of this year. I'm not a negativist. I am pleased that we are happy in New Slovenia that we have good economic growth, but we should now take advantage of this climate for what the European Union, the European Commission, is ultimately imposing on us. We are part of the European Union, but here last July we have adopted a new declaration on the external policy of the Republic of Slovenia and we say that our membership in the European Union is based on a referendum decision in 2003, that this is our membership in the European Union as our basic political and value framework. But after we get the report on Slovenia for 2016, where we have good advice in fact, then somehow we want to throw it in the basket as soon as possible, as if it doesn't suit us. And they are not great tasks ahead of us, but we need to do something right in the area of public finances, and we know exactly what, because Slovenia is among all Member States the country with the highest risk of fiscal sustainability. And that's what the candidate lady knows. And I believe she will take this matter very seriously. For the third millennium, of course, we also need a new economic model in Slovenia. We are in favour of the social market model of the economy in New Slovenia. For us, there's a man at the forefront. The market economy is too hard, it's too harsh, so we want a social market model of the economy. This model is checked in Europe in the most successful countries if you want to in the country that is our most important economic and political partner. Of course, this new model will not be without structural reforms. I have said and warned many times, even yesterday, that before this coalition, there is only 13 months of effective time for this government to carry out some fundamental reforms. Some of you may have become satisfied with this concept of reform, but those who have been in the economy at some time, we know that there are changes, rationalisation, cost reduction, that it is a constant in companies, that it is done permanently, every day, every year. The new economic policy in Slovenia will not be without structural reforms, which unfortunately we do not see to be on the horizon, it is just some cosmetic corrections, as is now the mini tax reform that will be again, I regret that this coalition is the one that continues to burden the economy where money is created. We in New Slovenia know that money does not grow on trees, that it needs to be created. Therefore, economic operators should be trusted to create and create a business environment that will encourage new jobs, to open new markets and, of course, to open the door to Slovenia to foreign investors. Of course, welcome home, clearly, first, under the same conditions of course also foreign investors. I don't see that there would be a lot of commotion at our border crossings, at the airport, a lot of pressure from foreign investors. We are not an attractive country, but we could be because of our geostrategic position, which is exceptional. Also because we have a great nation, a good nation, a remarkable, the best. I'm sorry, though, that the young educated are leaving. Let them go, when we talk about brain circulation, but I am not for it, and I regret even if only one of them leaves and takes knowledge, his virtues elsewhere and he creates another place instead of creating a home. We see the new finance minister as a government minister, who will not only follow some government guidelines, but will also create a new economic policy. Ma'am mag. Mateja Vraničar Erman did not convince us on the Committee on Finance and also by what she has shown in her past that she simply, as I have already said, passionately rejected all the proposals of New Slovenia. Of course, we did not give up, we will continue with our suggestions, we will work and we will, I am sure, in a short time, also positively surprise you with our solutions. Of course, we cannot give support to the candidate for the above reasons. However, we sincerely want to do something good for this country, together in these 13 effective months, for which we all surely love Slovenia. But we must always have people ahead of us, including those on the edge, on one side or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u7	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which the Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u8	Good-bye, everybody! Today, we cannot ignore the fact that this is already the 26th Minister or Minister of the Cerara government, which we are discussing, taking into account all the rapid and rapid exchange of ministers and ministers, within two years. However, I am glad that Slovenian public finances will be taken over by a woman. A woman who has worked for many years at the Ministry of Finance is, therefore, both theoretically and practically well-mannered. And her problem will be, I'm sure, political power. Dear Prime Minister, it's not a problem if the Minister with a certain appetite can say no, but it's a problem if you cover her back. I wish this minister wasn't the only one in line 26. There are many challenges to it, from budget to state property. Many of it is expected by the public, citizens and many of it by Members. The economic situation is better today than it has ever been in the last eight years, and the country should be able to make use of it and do what needs to be done. Slovenia deserves the future, and this European future. We can't stay put and let everyone get ahead of us. We have an opportunity, in fact, you have a billion opportunities and indeed one billion more than we had in 2013 to regulate the health situation in order to provide the necessary money for the holed roads, for young people, for the pensioners and eventually for the congregation. You have a billion reasons to set things straight that we couldn't, so I rightly expect this from you. The management of state property is certainly a rakrano of this government. The event at the Slovenian state holding company from affair to affair, if only two of the biggest ones are mentioned, the NLB affair, the Luke Koper affair. What's happening at a bad bank? We don't really know what's going on, except for the wage affair and the last one, it's very interesting, with the loyalty supplement. You sell Slovenian companies to postal collectors for miserable purchases. State-owned companies today are more than ever ATMs for influential individuals. This has to be done. This must be done immediately, and that, Madam Minister, because I am confident that you will become a minister today, is also rightly expected of you. It is true that, at your presentation, you have said that this is not an area that you would know best, but you need to get to know it as soon as possible and as quickly as possible because of its importance and value. Finally, I cannot pass through the congregations to which you have behaved very masculinely over the past two years. I want you to find a common language and provide the municipalities with the means necessary for their operation. Of course, every reserve, including the municipalities, is true that they end up somewhere, and Slovenian municipalities are, according to my assessment, currently on the limit of capacity. Two years isn't long, but it's long enough for you to do what you have to do. We have shown that we know this in less than two years. From words to actions, it's a long way to go. Make this ministry as short as possible. The role of the coalition is to provide support to its ministers and to do so this time. Dear President, the Ministry of Finance is an important ministry. Informally, this city, which, by its power, should be followed by the President of the Government. Let it be so with the new minister, I wish her at the beginning of her term.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u9	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! She's a financial minister's candidate, ma'am. Matey Vraničar Erman, in previous mandates or in the first part of the current term, we have been able to get to know quite well either as a secretary of state or as an expert at various functions and jobs of the Ministry of Finance. She is a financial expert with experience and necessary expertise. The President of the Government has proposed a competent candidate for one of the most responsible functions in the country and will therefore also receive our support. There is no doubt that, despite its expertise, the future Minister will have to put a great deal of effort, knowledge and patience into decisions that will further contribute to the financial consolidation of the Republic of Slovenia and to ensuring the sustainability or resolution of large systems such as pension and healthcare stores, the broad-based social field and education, science, local self-government and could be listed for a long time. To what extent it will be successful, it is not just up to it, but the fact is that it can do the most by itself. If I use the illustration, it is not easy to take the steering wheel in a moving vehicle, especially if the direction of movement is only partially defined, even passengers have many different desires, appetites, but is a good, experienced and well-trained driver can largely perform tasks. We want this to be the case with the new finance minister. Its first and perhaps most important challenge is already in hand, as the budget rebalancing for the following year and the indicative budget plan for 2018 are in the final stage of preparation or adoption. I am sure that the candidate has played an important, probably crucial role in their creation. There will undoubtedly be many challenges, among which there will almost be no easy tasks. From the point of view of the national community, we expect that, in preparing the said budgets, the Republic of Slovenia has taken into account the specific situation and needs of the national communities. This is because of the sensitivity of the area, continuity is essential, and there is also a number of additional efforts to deal with such matters properly. It is not enough for national communities to provide resources only for the minimum functioning of their organisations and institutions, but it is also essential to provide adequate financial support for their development if there is a genuine intention to continue their existence. We expect that the specifics of radio and television programmes and media, cultural and educational activities, as well as the need to provide an economic basis for the indigenous national community, are consistently taken into account in the financing of the national communities. The entire community also has its own specifics to respect and respect. In the case of Hungarian nationality, this is, among others, a less developed demographically endangered region and, in the Italian community, an existing state of common institutions in Slovenia and Croatia. An important aspect in this area is the provision of conditions for the effective bilingual operation of public administrations and institutions and municipal administrations in national mixed areas. It is in this regard that many need better systemic solutions in order to be effective in implementing bilingualism. Minister Maramor, who unexpectedly resigned, agreed with the change in the way or system of funding of municipal self-government national communities, which must be implemented directly, since the national organisations of public law persons are mentioned. We must make this change happen as soon as possible, because there have been ghosts in the national mixed area for too long, especially in Prekmurje. We look forward to the support and active role of the future minister. Finally, the former Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble, has also listened to the problems of bilingual financial operations in the mandate of this government. A working group was set up to examine the issue of the issuance of invoices and payment orders in the languages of the national communities. We rightly expect this work to continue during the new Minister's period. Future ministers, because I do not doubt her election, we want a successful work in favour of the state and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Both presidents, ministerial councils, colleagues and colleagues! The finance minister or minister is usually the most indispensable in every government, but at the same time the least popular member of the government team. You know, it's that minister who always sets some financial, tax requirements, restrictions, conditions, expectations, and that minister who always gives the least. Not only does the work of the Minister of Finance have one particular difficulty and responsibility – the responsibility to deal with the money of this country and citizens or taxpayers and taxpayers. This responsibility also entails risks. If we want to look for development, to ensure reforms, as already mentioned by the opposition's colleagues today, then risk must also be taken. However, risking public finances can also lead to bad decisions, and these have been huge in our past times. These poor decisions have resulted in a huge indebtedness of the state and a huge public debt, which we have consequently made. What needs to be done today is to turn the curve upwards. With the former Minister of our Government, we have already started this with so-called public financial stabilisation and consolidation, when we have captured the use of state money again in our hands in such a way that we have looked at how much money is in our wallet, how much money it can be spent, how much it needs to be put aside and what it can be invested in. All of these are challenges ahead of us and which also require consistent respect for certain agreed, including new, re-agreed rules, both in the field of public finances and in the field of taxes, banking rules and, at the final stage, the management of state-owned enterprises. All of this has already been done by this government, but it is not yet satisfied. As you know, we will, and right now, consider a package of a number of new legislative proposals that relate to the so-called mini-tax reform and the adoption of the budget for the next two years, the issue of overwinding the country's investment strategy, operations, missions, the role of the Slovenian State Holding in the public finances system and so on. So all of these are processes that we have revived with different commitments, different expectations and relationships, as we have unfortunately been trained in past times. Mag. Mateja Erman Vraničar has been an extremely active actress in all these processes, as usual and often in women, not so visible in the media and the public, but a reliable engine of all these contents that we have prepared or that our government has prepared. We expect that this will continue with great knowledge and capital as Minister of Finance. Therefore, we have no doubt that it is not properly qualified to have sufficient political knowledge and skills in what it will do, but also the necessary strength and trust it requires by its colleagues from the government team, starting with the President of the Government. Allow me, however, to end up with another interesting thing that may not even be that interesting. Today we get or believe we get, the first female finance minister. The rule is usually that women come when the water burns. I believe that water is not yet on fire, but we are all aware of how important it is, and it will be that our public finances are maintained in a healthy manner and on such foundations as we have established by working in this government. A respected magus. Mateji Vraničar Erman as a candidate for the Minister of Finance in the categories of the Modern Centre's Group of the Parties is committed to a single full support, and at this point we want her to perform her work perfectly with her knowledge, experience, determination and women's wisdom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u13	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues! We have a decision to make on the new finance minister. In the introduction, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Magi candidate. Matthew's Vranicator Erman won't support it. We won't support her for a number of reasons. However, we will continue to give reasons and, above all, arguments why the candidate will not receive our support. In the introduction, I would like to say that it was the very presentation of the Magi. Matthew Vrančnik Erman is a great disappointment. Because at the presentation itself, she did not give any concrete solutions or tell what policy she would pursue as Minister of Finance in the future. It did not provide concrete answers to specific questions. In her presentation we recorded just a few, six, seven political Flossules. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the political tables for the Minister of Finance are largely insufficient. We are convinced that both the political floor and the wider Slovenian public should know what the policy of the new minister will be. She was a magician, after all. Mateja Vraničar Erman has three ministers to date: Dr. Franc Križanič, Dr. Uroš Čufer and Dr. Dušan Mramor. It is significant for all three ministers to advocate a policy of borrowing and a policy of new tax burdens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are confident that in view of the experience so far with mags will be experienced. Matej Vraničar Erman continued the debt policy and the policy of new tax burdens under its leadership. We're wondering if he'll be a magician. Mateja Vraničar Erman is able to lead and perform this function, because it is necessary to realize that this is actually another person in the country, if not even the first. It means that every decision, every matter taken by the ministers of this government, will have to be approved by the Minister of Finance. Based on her answers and her presentation, we're pretty sure she's a mag. Matthew Vraničnik Erman remained at the level of the Secretary of State. However, we would continue to follow the individual segments covered by the Ministry of Finance and the areas for which the Minister will also be responsible. It's a budget. For the first time in the history of Slovenia, the government or the Ministry of Finance froze the budget spending already in August, that is, during the holiday season. Dear Prime Minister, we can hear from you in public how you boast about economic measures, how you boast about economic growth, how you boast about reducing the number of unemployed. And then this same government of yours freezes the budget for the first time in August. We're also in the magic show. Matthew Vraničnik Erman was asked what the reasons were for this freezing. She didn't give any concrete answers. I repeat, for the first time in the history of Slovenia this freeze was made in the month of August. It was an exception in 2014, but there were early elections. Dear Prime Minister, does the freezing of budgetary spending mean early elections? Because only so far in the history of Slovenia have we had a budget freeze in July, but there were early elections. And I think it was quite right at the time by the then President of the Government that she decided to take such a step. Today, we do not see in the Slovenian Democratic Party the reasons necessary to freeze spending on the spending budget, even when the President of the Government boasts of no economic measures. With regard to the budget, we can record a 5% increase in salaries for public servants. Finally, in July there was also a minimum number of budget inflows. Finally, we are concerned that state investments are declining. This year there were only EUR 37 million, a third of the investments made in 2015. Dear Prime Minister, you are responsible for proposing a candidate, and the candidate said in her presentation that the budget would be developed. I would like to know how the budget will be developed if we spent only 37 million on investments this year, which is a third of the 2015 amount. Drawing on European funds is a very important budget item. We can see from the publicly available data that this year this government is catastrophic in drawing on European funds. In July, we have absorbed just over €600,000 of European funds, the smallest revenue for Slovenia since Slovenia is a member of the European Union. We have not received any answers to this, nor have we received any answers from the candidate. Finally, Slovenia had a significantly higher inflow of European Union funds than it had paid in the budget of the European Union. This year, this difference is only 54 million. In 2015 there were more than 400 million. There were no concrete answers here by the candidate. The fiscal world. Slovenia is still without a member of the Fiscal Council. The Minister of Finance or the future Minister of Finance and the President of the Government shall be responsible for this. In fact, we can ask ourselves if we are in an unconstitutional state. And the Fiscal Council, given the state and stability of public finances in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is seen as one of the most important. Finally, the candidate for the appointment of members of the Fiscal Council at the hearing refused to respond. Her answer was, Fiscal Council, members will stand before I become Minister of Finance. And this week, we read that the Government or the Ministry of Finance withdraws proposals that candidates are not suitable and that it will continue with the new call for proposals. This means that Slovenia will be without the Fiscal Council for at least six months, but the candidate said at the hearing that she was convinced that this was a matter that was no longer concerned and that the members of the Fiscal Council would be appointed before its appointment. That's not what happened. Tax debt. The tax debt in Slovenia is more than €1.3 billion, representing more than 15% of the budget inflows. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly warned that this number is alarming and we are convinced that the Government of Mir Cerar and the Coalition, or the Ministry of Finance in this area, does not take appropriate measures to reduce this tax debt. We would like to point out that the only measure taken so far to punish or reduce the tax debt was taken in the time of the government of Janez Janša in the period 2012 to 2013, when the law was adopted, in order for the taxpayers to be publicly disclosed. And at that time, we could record one part that had been reduced by this tax debt. A respected candidate on the committee suggested that these measures were to reduce active tax debt, but the situation and the story are different. An active tax debt is reduced to the account of an inactive tax debt, i.e., due to the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings, the initiation of insolvency proceedings makes the active tax debt into an inactive debt. We have also repeatedly warned that both the Ministry of Finance and the FURS should disclose how much tax debt is written down. Because I am confident that most of this inactive tax debt is cancelled due to the termination of bankruptcy proceedings. Unfortunately, this information is not publicly available in Slovenia. Also on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, members of the coalition rejected such a proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that 1.3 billion tax debt means a lot. This means, I would say, a considerable number of pensions, a significant number of new schools and, however, a respected Minister of Health, I am convinced that a billion 300 could be used more effectively by health care if the state were able to reduce this tax debt. Debt. The characteristic for the European Union countries is that countries' indebtedness is declining and in Slovenia it is increasing. Slovenia already has a tax debt of more than 80 per cent of gross domestic product. Above all, it is significant that this indebtedness of Slovenia was most pronounced in all the mandates when the current candidate worked as State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. We are confident that this debt will continue with respect to the policy and work of this government, the distinguished Prime Minister of the Government. The distinguished candidate has not provided some concrete measures to address the debt reduction of the countries. Retails. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, excise duties are one of the most catastrophic policies of the Ministry of Finance, as it is a fact that excise duties in Slovenia are increasing both in the field of oil derivatives, tobacco products and alcohol. Every year we have lower revenue from excise duties on the budget. Increasing excise duties means a less competitive environment for the economy and a significantly higher burden for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Prime Minister, why is the price of about 15 cents cheaper on the so-called shadow side of the Alps than in Slovenia? Why is the price of burning oil about 10 cents cheaper on the shadow side of the Alps than in Slovenia? The new Minister has not provided concrete answers, such as excise policy. I am sure that this excise policy will not change and will, I would say, burden the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The highest increase in excise duties in Slovenia was recorded mainly during the first month of the term of office of Dr. Franz Križanič, when she was Secretary of State Mateja Erman Vraničar. Taxes. In the area of taxes, we were able to recognize the candidate for a finance minister as when she came to the National Assembly, and we have to take citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for a wallet because we knew that within one month of the entry into force of the new law, the tax burdens in Slovenia would increase. We did not get a concrete answer why the Ministry of Finance and the Secretary of State decided to introduce the value added tax rate as a permanent measure. It was again on your part, Prime Minister, to hear how we have economic growth, but you have enacted a permanent increase in value added tax. Here we can expect tax burdens to continue under the new Minister. Finally, we can read in the media that the Ministry of Finance and the Government are considering how they will repeal the law on so-called standardised people. Why? We believe that flat-rate taxation is appropriate in the Slovenian Democratic Party and you will go and change it. And even this part by the candidate was not given the appropriate answers. Finally, we can now note that the Ministry of Finance is calling on municipalities to increase land compensation for building contributions. On the other hand, we can listen to the state impose a property tax or the government of Mira Cerar. Is it the preparation of the land for the municipalities to raise compensation for building land by giving you, I don't know, six months, one year's real estate tax, and you'll say, contributions and taxes remain the same. There were no concrete answers on this side either. Here in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this fear of new tax burdens, that it is appropriate on our part, and that we can also expect all the things that are happening now, that the matter will go this way. If we could say that the mandate of these two years, which Dr. Marble had, at least in the area of stabilisation of public finances and the evaluation budget, was sufficient, there was, in particular, a completely different story in the area of governance of state assets. I am convinced that the management of state property is one of the worst so far under the mandate of the Government of Mir Cerar and this coalition, the Social Democrats and Desus. The fact is that it deals mainly with personnel, not with the management of state property. A number of questions were raised by candidates for the future minister. If she has answered some questions in the area of budget and public finances, the distinguished ministers and the distinguished Prime Minister of the Government have not provided a single concrete answer regarding the management of state property. And if we start with the Slovenian state holding company. The Slovenian state holding company has temporary leadership. The candidate could not answer what her position would be, what her policy would be in the Slovenian State Holding. When will the Slovenian State Holding be given leadership for the full term? Finally, the Minister of Finance, who will also propose, has the possibility of proposing a management staff or management bodies of the Slovenian State Holding, which means members of the Supervisory Board and management. Privatisation is important in front of Slovenia. Privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. Dear Prime Minister, do you expect that, with the temporary leadership of the Slovenian State Holding Company, you can successfully drive the privatisation of our largest system bank? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are sure not. The questions raised by the candidates are also what will be the concept of the privatisation of the New Bank of Love? Does the candidate agree with the so-called dispersed privatisation or not? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the dispersed part of privatisation means a significantly lower inflow from the purchase and, of course, that the country will be worse after the privatisation has been completed if it lands successfully. Do they hold information that the management of the Slovenian State Holding and the Ministry of Finance are negotiating with the European Commission in order to change the privatisation deadline at the end of 2017? We didn't get those answers. We haven't even received an answer on the public property management strategy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, when adopting this strategy, we have drawn attention to a series of shortcomings and a number of problems that will emerge once this strategy is actually implemented. Dear President of the Government, you are boasting of the State Property Management Strategy as one of the most important documents adopted during this government. The management of the Slovenian State Holding Board, however, told you that this strategy was inadequate and that it needed changes and additions and a respected candidate could not respond when we will receive a renewed strategy for the management of state property in the National Assembly, although the Secretary of State Dronja Methods on the June Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy promised the matter for the month of September. A big surprise, at least for me personally, was when the candidate presented a strategy for the management of state assets to use the deadline for the State asset management strategy to be based on sectoral policy. This term was already used in the history of Slovenia at the time of AUKN and Minister Franz Križanič in 2009. The State Property Management Strategy will be based on sectoral policy, and this sector policy prepared by the Ministry of Finance, and I believe that the current candidate was also involved with it, was rejected by the ministerial assembly. And today, the 2009 deadlines are being used with the new candidate. So, I'm wondering if, in fact, in the shadow of the Ministry of Finance, Dr. Franci Križanič is returning, because those are the words from then on. The area of insurance. See, Slovenia is the only country where the country controls more than 60% of the insurance market. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that changes are needed. For what insurance strategy the candidate could not answer us with a single question about what she would take. Despite the fact that it stressed that the basis for the State's asset management strategy would be sectoral policy, and this means that, in the field of insurance, which is at least one of the most important to me personally, these matters are not addressed. What will happen if the takeover bid for the Triglav Insurance Company or the Sava Reinsurance Company comes in? Today, the strategy for the management of state assets does not provide for this. This government has been preparing this gambling law for quite some time. What will be the policy of the new legislation, the candidate could not say. Will they focus on awarding concessions or will they not focus on awarding concessions? Dear President of the Government, Slovenia is today one of the only countries of the European Union where sports lottery has a monopoly on sports betting. And finally, a lot of Slovenian players play through online casinos or abroad and here Slovenia loses a lot of money. What policy will the candidate apply in this regard? Will she defend the monopoly or will she be here to open the market? There were no such issues, nor did we receive an answer to any of these questions, nor did we receive an answer when the gambling law will come to the National Assembly. The Economic and Social Council. Dear Prime Minister, employers stepped down a while ago, and at least for me personally, the Economic and Social Council is dead. Imagine what it would be like for the unions to step out of the Economic and Social Council during the Prime Minister's term. The streets would be full, the media would be full. Here, however, the media has not in any way challenged the fact that employers have decided to leave the Economic and Social Council. And there were also no adequate answers given by the candidate for the Minister of Finance. Who's gonna negotiate next? The only answer was that the Minister for Social and Labour is responsible for the Economic and Social Council. There were no other cases. As Minister of Finance, she should strongly advocate all matters for employers to return to the Economic and Social Council. But if they don't, then it's best that the Economic and Social Council dissolves because he's already dead. Foreign investment. In foreign investments, we are in Slovenia among those we have the least, but foreign investors are opening new jobs. And what will a respected candidate do to ensure that foreign investors simply choose Slovenia? There was no answer. And today foreign investors from Slovenia are withdrawing and thus Slovenia is losing its jobs. Dear Prime Minister, when you visited the United States of America in November 2015, you visited mainly information companies, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle. Then you said, "The visit was successful, the American companies will come to Slovenia." IBM opened a development centre in Zagreb, a thousand jobs, that was after your visit to America. Hewlett Packard withdrew from Slovenia and moved the representation to Zagreb. Foreign investors opt for Bratislava, Belgrade and Zagreb, not Slovenia. And the Minister of Finance has here scissors and canvas in her hands, and she has not specifically stated with one measure how she would advocate the arrival of foreign investors. Finally, I would point out that Slovenia has lost a large investment in Petišovci, 220 million euros in investment. Dear Prime Minister, do you not feel responsible here for what has been said and responsible for proposing a candidate for Minister of Finance who has not served a single concrete answer to the questions that concern her? There were also many questions as to whether she was able to tell Karl Erjavac no. I'm sure Karl Erjavac could know the Minister of Finance to say yes and no. Yes mainly in the coordination of pensions, because I am convinced that the conditions for coordination and pension raising are met, Karl Erjavac could say decisively not at the Insurance Company Triglav, because pensioners cannot privatise the Insurance Office of Triglav. And I'm sure the future minister will do the opposite. She'll say no to the pensioners. And it will actually be to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia and the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I think there have been enough reasons in our position why we will not support the candidate. We'd like to expose the DUTB. The number of employees exceeded 200, labour costs in 2016 will be €10 million, and in 2015 there were €5 million. What about the DUTB advisory contracts? Why is DUTB selling the claim to a buyer who then sells the same claim to a third buyer within two months for 20 million? Didn't we all lose here? Why is DUTB still missing the revised 2015 annual report? We haven't received an answer to a single question from the Minister. But as of today, I am convinced that the Minister will actually have full powers to appoint SDH, for DUTB, will be present at the SDH supervisory councils, DUTB, will sit on the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, will go to the floor in Brussels, where she will negotiate, and will actually negotiate with all ministers. An important function, which is likely to depend on the next future of Slovenia, which depends on the standard of living of Slovenk and Slovenes. However, because of all this, these arguments will be said by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, determined not by mags. Matthew Erman the Vranic. However, this does not mean probably no debt policy or a policy of new tax burdens.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Desus Group, Mr Peter Wilfan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u16	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished Council of Ministers, candidate for Minister, colleagues and colleagues, all well hailed! Today, at the head of the Finance Ministry, we will confirm the state secretary of mags. Matey Vraničar Erman, with whom we have already worked properly. We value the Minister's candidate as an indisputable connoisseur of the area, since she is a long-standing high official of the Ministry of Finance, including her education abroad and her CV speaks for herself. Mag. Mateja Vraničar Erman is an expert candidate, so I will not list her competence, but I will tell you what we want from her, what we expect and how we imagine our cooperation now that she becomes Minister. We like to say that her predecessor, Dr. Marble, was the fourth coalition partner, which is not bad in itself, as the finance minister is expected to take careful care of the public purse and sometimes to say no. You all know that in the Desus Group we had a lot of discussions with Minister Maramor, but in the end, if I paraphrase the words of our President Karl Erjavac, he was one of our favorite ministers. Well, let's go back to Mrs Vraničar Erman and her repeated statement, which was taken from the context, that she can say no to Karl Erjavac. The candidate has shown by this statement that she is sovereign, what we value, and that she will treat public finances with all due diligence and responsibility, which is also right. We support this attitude, but we expect it to work as a minister along with this coalition to be a team player, which means she will have to be able to listen. We want her to be open to dialogue and ultimately to be able to act politically and accept compromises. We all probably agree he's a magician. Vrančnik Erman is extremely competent, but we want her to be also socially sensitive, to have a hearing for the most vulnerable, such as the elderly and pensioners, disabled and, of course, young people who are still entering the labour market. Young people are our future, we must not forget that. And if young people have enough jobs and conditions for a quality life, then we have done a lot for the elderly and, finally, for the economy. We expect the Minister and Coalition to have unconditional respect for the coalition treaty, which means that we will regularly coordinate pensions, pay the pension regress and finally establish a demographic reserve fund in the shortest possible time. And let me say something else about why we need the demographic fund and why we need it now. The demographic fund will relieve the budget, as today we are earmarking €1.4 billion per year from the pension budget, which is of course not sustainable in the long term. We need a special fund where for at least 10 or 20 years we would nominate part of the state property, the share of the sale of state-owned enterprises that have grown on the shoulders of today's pensioners. All these years, however, the fund would have been flowing and accumulated from different sources worth, say, 0.5% of GDP or by agreement. Things are still open, of course, and we expect the new Minister to return to the joint table as soon as possible and to identify funding sources. At this point, I must reiterate our insistence in the Desus Group on the establishment of the Fund as soon as possible, as the deadline for the SDH Act expired at the end of last year and the coalition deadline has already been far exceeded. We will certainly insist, because this is our commitment to young generations, to those who will retire in the future. The second point at which we are very sensitive in our parliamentary group is health. We all know that at this point our public health network needs an additional EUR 200 million, so I would like to ask you today how you, as a finance minister, will face this pressing problem, because we know that only laws are not enough to solve the acute situation; money is needed. It is promised and we hope that this will be so that the reform health package will soon be in the National Assembly, so you will have to grab the bull by the hands immediately at the beginning of your term of office, as they say. Dear Minister, we also expect you to take good care of our national silver, that the final phase of privatisation will be carried out transparently, in the interests of businesses and countries and carefully verified strategic partners. We want good governance with state-owned companies, so SDH must first and foremost manage companies, but not only sell them. Until the sale of state property, as we have seen in the past, if I mention only selling NKBM, it must no longer come. We will not allow this to happen to you in order to prevent such attempts and practices. Mag. Matthew Vraničar Erman we give you full support for the management of state finances while we wish to say no to each other as few times as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Wilphan. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Your Honor! Each minister left his trail in the 25-year history of Slovenia. A very difficult period came with an economic and financial crisis that we were not prepared for, since the economy had previously overheated by borrowing favourable loans and borrowing banks abroad. In the wake of the immediate decline in demand on the market and the drastic withdrawal of banks in support of businesses, there was a loss of jobs, a reduction in funds for health and pension funds, for the security system, for infrastructure and so on. There was an overpriced recovery of the banking system and a demand for the sale of the most important property of the country. The adoption of the fiscal rule took place at a time when the public financial situation is burdened with more than 80 % debt and, consequently, we are limited to measures that could boost economic growth. All of this will also mark the work of the future minister. The period in which the candidate magician enters. Mateja Vraničar Erman, although the moment Slovenia came out of the surplus deficit procedure. As she said at the presentation, the available public funding would channel faster economic growth and easing austerity measures in a gradual and thoughtful manner. In our view, this is also the right answer, as only economic growth can reduce public debt. Saving by force is causing enormous damage and public debt is further increasing. Last but not least, if we follow up on the situation and analyse the last period in which we see that data for this second quarter, where we record 2.7% of gross domestic product growth. The biggest contributors to growth were export growth and domestic consumption. Household expenditure increased most by 2.6%. However, during this same period we note a significant reduction in investment in construction facilities and here is one of the first tasks of the candidate to accelerate the absorption of European cohesion policy funds for the period 2014-2020. We are already deep in the new financial perspective, and the pumping has virtually stopped. This depends largely on investment for growth and jobs. The situation described implies that the position of the Minister of Finance is of exceptional importance and that the person employed is indeed a person who is capable of broad thinking and understanding the importance of many social subsystems and their roles for the whole community; that he understands when the cost can be an investment; that he is capable of an argumentable dialogue not only to be stuck in denying wishes but also to be able to jointly seek solutions on the way to common goals; that he is not only able to listen and deny, rather, to be able to hear, find a solution and, of course, to act. In addition to worrying about the short-term and long-term stability of public finances, there are also very large challenges for the candidate in priority areas, which, of course, will not be directly responsible, but cannot work without her understanding and listening. This is one of the major shortcomings of the current situation, as the Ministry of Finance has decided to intervene in a number of areas. And in the opinion of the Social Democrats, however, priorities need to be highlighted in all these areas. One of these is human health and the health system. Without human health and the availability of health services, the negative consequences will also be reflected in the financial results, so we expect the candidate to understand that investments in human health are multiplying and beneficial to all of us. The current waiting lines are very long and we also expect future ministers to take action in this area. The next topic is the provision of public investment in key public infrastructure, which is both a prerequisite and an engine for economic growth and development and because without public investment we cannot promise progress. As soon as possible, it will be necessary to submit a law on the construction of a second track, which will be an important test of understanding when the cost is an investment. The next topic is the functioning of social solidarity systems, especially those systems that make life easier for the weakest members of our society or enable them to succeed with their own knowledge and work. The next area, which is extremely important, is certainly the management of state property. This must be managed for the benefit of all and from which we expect not only higher returns, but more democratic control, more public interest, which is measured not only in purchases from the sale of state property. We also expect more transparency and public participation in making key decisions on plans for our common assets. Systemic supervision of the activities carried out must be introduced, and we must pay particular attention to the source of capital that wishes to take over our most successful companies. We believe that it will be a key decision to understand this state of creation of the demographic fund. This property must provide a stable pension system and ensure that young people are able to receive pensions. Dialogue on this topic will be crucial to how we view the management of state property, whether the objective is truly a long-term policy and a stable life for people or a short-term goal and the quick earnings of individuals. The next topic, which is very important, is certainly a security policy, because the period we are in puts us in a position to invest more in the security system. It is unacceptable to treat members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, police, firefighters and judicial authorities differently. We need to find a way to regulate this area by eliminating this distinction, because the security system can only work if we take care of the entire chain involved in this system. If we deal with just one, this chain will definitely break. Tax policy is certainly within the direct competence of the Minister for Finance, and we imagine that this will not only be a means of filling the common bag, but also a way of encouraging the desired and deterring socially adverse behaviour. Therefore, in this area too, we would like to see tax restructuring followed by a more comprehensive tax reform, which will more fairly allocate the ratio between labour and capital burden. This is also comparable to other European developed countries in Slovenia in favour of capital. Green tax reform, which is also a coalition commitment, would also be an incentive for those who operate in such a way that they do not harm the environment and health of people. And, finally, an extremely important area is the area of local self-government. Because there is a lot of interest and direct exercise of the interests of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. We expect the Social Democrats to begin dialogue with the municipalities immediately after the appointment in order to finally end the harmful practice of disputes between the two levels of government. Thus, in anticipation of understanding the key needs and priorities of Slovenia and with comprehensive constructive cooperation, the Social Democrats will support the candidate for Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Weber. For the last position, I give the floor to the Joint Left Group and to Mr Luka Mesac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Many think that a candidate for a minister has so far been some neutral official who has merely followed the political direction of ministers. Unfortunately, that impression is wrong. Matthew Erman Vraničar was the mother of fiscal policy in the last two governments. This fiscal budgetary policy has been extremely unsocial, but has nevertheless not contributed to the stabilisation of public finances. According to what she has heard on the committee, she will continue to be a minister in this direction, so unfortunately, we cannot support her in the United Left. The tax measures that the future minister has stood for and stands for have benefited almost exclusively a few percent of the richest in the country. The government of Alenka Bratušek temporarily raised the VAT rate, the government of Mir Cerar fixed it. Excesses remain among the highest in the European Union. Both taxes are highly socially unfair, as the rates for a pensioner with 400 euros of pension are the same as for a board member with 10,000 euros of salary. They both pay the same. On the other hand, she is the future minister of both the marble tax reforms. Last year, a few percent of the best paid in this country earned €16 million, and this year they receive a tax gift of €56 million. Its tax policy is so friendly for only a few percent of people with the highest income, while at the same time insensitive for everyone else, and especially for the lower 20%, which is particularly often pointed out in the United Left, i.e. the 20% that owns only 1% of the property in this country. The arguments for this anti-social policy were economic growth and the stabilisation of public finances. You're both wrong. Slovenia has a 7.9% surplus in external trade, according to the latest data, so we create 3 billion more than we spend. We are one of the most competitive companies in Europe and therefore we do not need additional tax exemptions. On the contrary, if we need to reduce the deficit, the government should increase its revenue to do so. Therefore, it is necessary to go in the opposite direction, as advocated by the Minister. The incomes from capital and the richest must be fairly taxed, supplementary health insurance must be abolished and measures such as fuel price deregulation must be discontinued, as they will once again provide more than EUR 100 million to companies such as OMV and Petrol. These are the reasons why we were not satisfied with the candidate's replies to the presentation. The Ministry of Finance has produced, for example, two studies that have shown that revenue in the budget would be drastically reduced if fuel prices were deregulation. Nevertheless, the candidate did not reply to the question whether deregulation as a minister would prevent it. We didn't get an answer about the supplementary health insurance either. Three weeks ago, the Minister of Health said publicly that there is a total of 60 million euros lost in insurance companies, which are paid by the people of this country for treatment rather than for insurance companies. You are also aware of this by the coalition Members, as you have publicly stated in the coalition agreement that you are in favour of lifting this insurance, but that not one single step has been taken in more than two years. To conclude, however, I would point out a positive attitude. The future minister said at the presentation that she found mixing public and private questionable and also said she was ready to check whether there was any other way to build a second track. Yesterday, we warned that according to Dr. Gasperšič’s current plan, the second track would be overpaid twice. If the future minister thinks seriously about these two issues and is willing to act in their public interest, she can, in these projects of accounts, take our full support, but in the light of the other policies that we have asked her about on the committee, she will obviously insist on non-social policies, which are also going fiscally in the wrong direction, and unfortunately we cannot give her overall support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Moon. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I give the floor to Mrs. Urski Ban. Get ready for Dr. Dobovšek and Mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mrs. Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Today, we will be discussing for four hours the candidate for future finance minister, the candidate mags. Vorner Erman. If elected and confirmed today as Finance Minister, this will be the first woman finance minister in the history of Slovenia. We'll be discussing, like I said, for four hours, and that's the way it is. It's kind of a very important source of government, I can say, just the spine of every government. Although we have heard today that this ministry is supposed to be all-powerful, it has been rescinded to be responsible for drawing on European funds, waiting types, investments, in spite of all things, I do not think that the Minister is alone in the Government, has an entire ministerial assembly, which also covers specific content and has clearly-written powers and responsibilities. Every time we talk about new candidates for ministers, the minister this time, on the one hand, our expectations are very high, and on the other hand the candidates, who are mentioned as candidates for any political function, are quick to face a critical Slovenian public and often also personal discrimination. What would it be like for all of us, if we ask ourselves, to be an ideal minister's candidate? In view of all the criticisms that candidates have been given for another function in the past, when they have been exposed to the public, even today, about the specific candidate for the minister, it is probably best that such a candidate should not have done anything in practice so far, because we know that someone is sometimes wrong; that no one would have known such a candidate by now, because we are quick to attribute certain connections and other sins to him; that he should not have done anything yet in a state enterprise, in a successful company, just in a bank or something like that; that no one should have found him any sin that he or even should have committed, and so on. That's not the kind of candidate the Prime Minister has proposed to us today. And he proposed to us a candidate mag. Matthew the Vranic Erman, whom we all know quite well. We also know her achievements and her mistakes. I myself have come to know the Minister well in the last two years, especially in the sense that she is professional in her work, that she is capable, working, unladen and also determined, and, if anyone, she is aware of her work and, above all, of the obligations that she is facing in this post. And in order to accept this challenge, it was not only professional enough, it undoubtedly has, and is the quality of each minister's candidate, it also took courage to give up in some way some of its personal priorities, perhaps opportunities, challenges that would probably make it much happier than this challenge that it accepts or will accept today, and yet it may have put some of its personal priorities back and put the country's interests at the forefront. I appreciate this, I appreciate on the one hand both her expertise and the courage she has shown and her determination to move on. However, not this year nor 2017 nor 2018 for the new Minister of Finance will be a simple year. On the one hand, we have fiscal rules to follow, despite economic growth, they are difficult, they are inexcusable, they are all covered by the Stability and Growth Pact, and basically they require us to reduce the deficit below 3% and the debt below 60%, or if the debt is higher, that we must approach this limit quickly enough or reduce the debt. In the event that a State fails to comply with these rules, it is in the so-called corrective procedure. However, if the rules are complied with, then the country shall enter into a preventive procedure. Slovenia has, as we know, met the requirements of the collective procedure since 2015 and has come to the preventive part this year, in which it will have to reduce the country's structural deficit by 0.6% this year, then by the same percentage in the following year and so on. And this preventive part of us requires further action in both the public expenditure structure and the scope of public expenditure and measures to reduce the debt of the state sector. And the main concern for the further adoption of such measures, as well as measures to further stabilise public finances, will certainly be on the shoulders of the new Minister of Finance. I believe that on this path, it will have the support of both the President of the Government and all ministers, especially for the benefit of all of us and our future generations. Sometimes it is difficult to understand that, despite good indicators and good statistics, when we record economic growth, higher domestic consumption, higher employment, lower unemployment, when we are improving our credit ratings, when Slovenia improves its position on competitive scales, when we look at these data alone, we present to them some full, covered tables of various such and other good things that are offered to us by ourselves, and at that point we must convince ourselves that we are also denying them to some extent the care of our own health, or that we also have this long-term condition in front of us, that certain things are also harmful to our health in the long term. This is a similar comparison to what our finances are now. And the candidate has built all of the priorities she has presented to us on the Committee on Finance in maintaining the economic autonomy that we have achieved during this government as a prerequisite for creating a society in which people can live with dignity from their work. In order to achieve this objective, the candidate highlighted, for the first time, the fiscal stable framework, which is a condition for stable economic growth. Secondly, it highlighted the well-functioning financial system, which is in support of the economy, especially the availability of funding sources and the level of funding costs. Thirdly, it highlighted the elimination of the elements of the non-competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment, the further elimination of administrative barriers in all areas on the one hand and, on the other hand, the improvement of the efficiency of public spending. I share the candidate's opinion that we will be able to achieve this goal of decent living from our own work in a way that we will be able to deliberately invest available public funds in those areas that will actually contribute to economic growth that will actually have a multiplier effect in those projects where this will prove to be. I have no doubt that the candidate will be successful in achieving her priorities, the commitments made to the Finance Committee. He has the necessary professional and other negotiating experience, as I have already said. However, when she becomes a minister, she will now have a direct political impact in the Government on important decisions related to both the budget, reforms, health, pension and so on, decisions related to the bad bank, SDH, privatisations, after all, to other routes and so on. Her political considerations are likely to be important here in addition to her professional competence. My confidence that she's capable of making wise decisions, she does. She's proved that a number of times. I believe he'll be a magician today. Vrančnik Erman, elected finance minister, will become the first finance minister, the first woman in Slovenia's time. On this occasion, I congratulate her, I wish her a good job, a lot of smart decisions, and also her team, which she or she will choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ban. I give the word "magic." Branku Grims, prepare Mrs Marusha Škopac and Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Today's candidate is not a new face, of course, but she has been a secretary of state three times, including, of course, the first period of this government. This is said to be part of this policy, for implementation also of responsibility. What does the budget say if we can read it? The real goals of every government, every policy, every coalition are seen from the budget. Not in words. Unfortunately, words are very consumer goods in Slovenia. But those true goals, and more importantly, reflect values. Every policy, we know, is based on values, but these can be real, human, but they can be fake, they can be imaginary, they can be artificial. And Ronald Reagan once said, instead of listening to empty words, we have to follow money in politics. And the actual values in politics show only what money is actually spent on, say, the budget. And when we look at the first two years of this government, it's very good to see how huge the difference between declared values and what is actually being done. You will recall that this government and this coalition have been placed on the oath of respect for the rule of law, unconditional respect for law, respect for people and human life. What's left of it when we look at the budget? That was the best we could see when we were discussing waiting species. There were endlessly many empty words back then. On the part of health care itself, the hospital was informed that if we received 40 million just for this purpose, €40 million, this would be enough to eliminate the most critical waiting lines that people are dying for. There were more numbers in the game, but this is essential because it's about those critical waiting types. You know what these are. But this $40 million can't be found. This is a matter of budget and values. What did she find, say, in the last two years, this government? She found 40 million for setting up a new public forest management company. So, for the pre-election support of the SD, it's called a domestic-called cow trade translated into Slovenian for ordinary people who are looking at us right now. They understand that Murphy's law that, for the most highly eloquent words in politics, the most obnoxious interests are usually hidden. And of course, whatever you're told in politics, they always end up talking about money, your money, taxpayers. But this government, Cerari's government, has led to perfection. Of course, those 40 million forests will not be able to recover anything, so we can go bet on that now. The Lubadars bite so cheerfully that the man is afraid when he looks and sees at the Pokluki, Mežakli, on the hills, on the Pohorje whole foxes of the completely dried forest. There has never been such a disaster in Slovenia. But I am sure that those who are currently in politics will, of course, recover from the Jewish ministry. If not otherwise, they will hire some people, and of course they will know which bets they will be. By the way, bureaucracy, which is still out there, will certainly be thrilled that it will increase. Less enthusiastic are the taxpayers who pay for it. Here's the problem. For in the end all things are paid by taxpayers, entrepreneurs and ordinary citizens by paying taxes and taxes in various forms. Well, but from the government, if you expect anything, it's at least that, and that's what ordinary people naively expect to take care of security. But this government has taken care of the safety of people's lives? I mentioned earlier, 40 million for people's lives are not found, but be careful, and 123 million for illegal migrant imports is no problem. This was immediately assured by the Government in the budget by the smallest problem. Look, only a third of this money would be enough to eliminate those critical waiting types. Here we are again on the issue of values. Not to mention that the government then sent some migrants to sea at the expense of taxpayers, while in Slovenia there were about 700 000 citizens and citizens and at least 300,000 of these children could not be sent to sea. And every normal government, and I'm going to say, who deserves that name, will take care of their people first, or people as taxpayers have the right to know and demand that they get something back from what they contribute. Did they at least get security for that? They're not. Today, we are witnessing the deconservation of ancient AKs through the barracks. Since you are careful, there is no money for ammunition for more modern rifles that the Slovenian Army has and are in line with NATO standards. And then so that those old supplies that are already so much that they don't already have a side of the bag can be used, and now they're pulling old weapons out of stock. All those who look at us, who growl, who hold their head, because of course the neighbors see it, but not just the neighbors, everyone who has a good or bad purpose sees it. And he realizes that when it comes to security, there's no money to be found. Here we are again on the issue of values. So the value is neither security nor the life of people. The only value is power. And how does this work in practice? Anyone who imagines politics about the way the media has always served him, as was the case with the textbooks, but today none of it has long been applied, imagines about, yes, if I vote for left-wingers, then they will take care of the social state, I will get the money and so on. Yeah, hell, no. When did wages and pensions really go up, real in the history of independent Slovenia? In the time of the government of Janez Janš. Now they're falling. It happens that one of the ministers, who happens to be the president of the “retirement party”, is breast-feeding, that he has raised some money for pensioners, while that raise is smaller than those belonging to pensioners under the law – which means that he has actually damaged them, but the media has this uncritical sale and, of course, people fall for it because they believe what they see in the media. Which is another question. This is also, of course, a matter of values. And so we get to a country that's re-employing in bureaucracy, a large one that increases wages, increases red tape costs, but it doesn't find money for people's lives and safety. And we're talking about values. These are real values, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, then it is always said, yes, that what is said about migrants is that it is aid to the poor and something like that. You know, Christians in the Middle East need help because they're being slaughtered down there by anyone with five minutes of time. But last of all, there's no misunderstanding, nothing. And they don't come in big coffins there, because they're usually still fighting, like the others who are there. But two thirds of those who are capable of fighting come to us, and I would say they are qualified. And if anyone thinks it's helping anyone to import foreign wars and foreign soldiers on their own soil, then we have a beautiful institution in Gornja for him, right there in Begunja, aga, to invite him to come forward. For everyone else, however, I would suggest that we look at what this means legally and financially, because we are talking about the finance minister today. Everything that is happening with regard to migrants is illegal if we stick to the real Dublin Agreement and everything. This is said, in the budget, because we are talking about the budget today, we should call this item an illegal activity of the Slovenian government or illegal or at least illegal activity of the Slovenian government. But 123 million is not a problem, for the elimination of waiting lines that kill citizens and citizens, and for this there is no money. Here we are talking about values and therefore the co-responsibility of the proposed Minister, because the Secretary of State was in this same government, and where, of course, the same one and the same one that you voted on when you also decided on the acts in Parliament, you propose. By the way, this sale with these mandatory quotas is also illegal. According to international acts, anyone who comes to the first safe country should apply there for asylum. What's going on now is quite something. This does not have much to do with law, but it has a lot to do with demagogism and, of course, something else when we talk about values. I said earlier that it is obvious that this stems only from the value of power, from spending money on the budget that the left-wing people have. How does this work in practice? The suckers imagine, we'll vote for them, we'll all be a little richer for that. Yeah, damn it. What is the real interest of left-wingers? As many poor people as possible. Because one of them has said that our interest is not that – I can bring you some of these historical quotations – our interest is not that as leftists we have rich, independent, independent entrepreneurs, bankers and the like, but our interest is that there are as many as possible who are without money and so on. And, of course, if they run out, they're imported. And this is what the whole of Europe is doing with this importing of migrants, so by the way, including the Slovenian government, of course, that there will be no mistake. And there's no problem in spending money for that. For their people, for their safety, but for their health, it is a problem to devote. But here you see real goals and, of course, real values. And I'm sorry, I'll never agree to such a policy. And, of course, that is why I will not support the proposed Minister. How will this story take place in the next two years? It is very easy to predict that the financial problem will be as it was. Because all the valves have already opened. The activities I've described don't stop. There's no money for the things that should be. This Parliament, you will not believe, came to an almost unanimous conclusion when we proposed last autumn, one year ago, a report that there is a need to increase, redirect money, change human security policy, because there is nothing without security. What was the biggest, economically speaking, comparative advantage of Slovenia? That she was always such a safe country. And that she also had an image of a change in the safe state. People don't know that. In a normal country, even in Europe, just around the world, you don't stand a chance of him walking down a dark street in the middle of the night, and nothing will happen to you. In Slovenia, however, this is self-evident. Any. And if it is wasted, it is also worth the comparative advantage Slovenia has. And we're talking about money again. Where's the money going? Because that reflects real values. Real values that are endlessly far from declared values. Once again, the Government, which has been elected to swear to consistent respect for law, is, for example, in this year's budget of 123 million, committed to illegal migrant activities, because this is all illegal, I say again, and I can prove it whenever you want. It was illegal, that illegal migrant express when half a million people passed through Slovenia. And everything that is now happening is, of course, not consistent with international acts. You will say, because it is not only our government's fault, it is all Europe and so on – it is partly true, but it is not. For if you look at the Multicity Group, you will see that you can say no to that. And you will not believe that in the Visegrad Group there is a government that declares itself left, but it is a completely different left than that in Slovenia, and in Slovakia, it also said absolutely no. This is said to be true if money is wanted and spent for its people, for its citizens and citizens, for taxpayers who rightly expect money to be spent so that they too have some of it to be provided by the State. And then, of course, things are completely different. In Slovenia, €40 million to eliminate the most critical waiting species is not found by this government. Three times that much money for illegal migrants is not a problem. Once again, there's so much money for a public forest company, it's no problem. Because this reflects values — the value of this authority is neither human nor its safety nor its health. This value is power. And I don't accept that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much, mag. Grimes. Honourable President of the Government and other representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, dear citizens and citizens! Allow me to interrupt the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly for a few moments, and I remind you that today, 21 September, we mark an international day of peace, part of which is also a global minute of silence at 12 noon. In 2001, the General Assembly of the United Nations, an organisation for which international peace is one of its fundamental objectives, adopted a resolution declaring 21 September an international day of peace. And this day, this day, has given thought to what peace means to us and what we are prepared to do for it. Citizens and citizens, or residents and residents of Slovenia, are extremely fortunate to have lived in peace for decades. For many of the world’s inhabitants, even those not far from us, peace is still a distant and unattainable dream. Therefore, I believe that peace should be placed at the centre of our efforts more often, not just today. Just as we human family members, as called by the United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki Moon, are responsible for peace. Your Honor! Today, in many major cities around the world, including us in Ljubljana, there is a symbolic march, a march for peace, initiated by the World Veteran Organization. With us, the organization of the campaign was provided by the members of the Association of Fighters for the values of NOBs, the Union of Associations of War Disabled Slovenians, the Federation of War Veterans for Slovenia and the Union of Northern Veterans. Representatives of the Police and the Slovenian Armed Forces also participate. Members and Members and others present, I therefore ask that we, for a minute of silence, express our support for all efforts for peace, as well as for the very quest for peace, with which participants are alerting and reminding us of the fragility and preciousness of peace, of the responsibility that mankind has up to this priceless and certainly not a self-evident value, which does not mean only the absence of war, as the Dutch philosopher Baruch Spinosa wrote in theological and political debate of 1670, but is a virtue, a state of spirit, a willingness to do good work and trust in righteousness. I beg you for a minute of silence. / minute silence/
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We continue with the word of Members and Members. I give the floor to Mrs Maruša Škopac, to prepare Mrs Andreja Potočnik and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As the finance minister's candidate said at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, Slovenia, under Minister Maramor, has regained its economic autonomy. Under Minister Maramor, this government has emerged from the surplus deficit process over the past two years. And as Mrs Vraničar Erman pointed out at her presentation, this is not the ultimate goal. The ultimate goal of this government is to maintain this economic independence now, which is our long-term objective. This means that, despite the good economic situation and the positive indicators, there will be a need to continue consolidating public finances and to work further on both the structure and the scope of public financial expenditure. As very experienced in this area, we see Mrs Vraničar Erman as the candidate who will successfully continue the road map. Mrs Vraničar Erman stressed that now that we have achieved the consolidation of public finances, under the development and growth pact, we must continue and gradually reduce the structural deficit at the rate of 0.6 percentage points of GDP per year. It also stressed that if economic growth is higher than the potential, additional efforts should be made to reduce the country's structural deficit. So, greater than economic growth, greater efforts must be made by the State to reduce the structural deficit. This I stress to all those who, at a high level of economic growth, see in particular an opportunity to increase the consumption of public financial expenditure and possibly to increase public sector wages and to increase the consumption of the country. Unfortunately, the rule is the other way around. Which means that the state has to save for bad times when it's doing well and increase its demand when the economy is in recession, thereby encouraging the economy and supporting it. Here, too, is our response to all those who, on the basis of the good work of this government and good economic growth, will express unrealistic expectations of increasing the public sector's consumption or the mass of wages and releasing in the past the country's restrictions and saving. In the area of capital investment management, the Government of Mira Cerar adopted a strategy on capital investment management based on OECD guidelines on corporate governance of state-owned enterprises. In this area, therefore, the task of the future Minister will be to regulate the adopted strategy. Under the government of Mira Cerar, we have also adopted a package of financial laws, namely, we have adopted a considerable number of laws. We have consolidated the financial sector and adopted a number of financial laws in the fields, we have adopted the Insurance Act, we have adopted the Banking Act, we have adopted the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund, and so on. Among other things, we have adopted the Act on Bank Stability Measures, which increases the role of DUTB in business restructuring. In short, it's been done a lot. Of course there's always more to be done. And it is because Mrs Vraničar has already been an extremely important member of the team of Minister Marble that we are confident that the work will continue successfully. Of course, we support her in her future function and we wish her much success.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik, to prepare the mag. Bojana Muršič and Mrs Susana Nice Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u29	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! I also welcome the candidate, the future minister, who I believe is listening to us from somewhere in the room. It's a fact, and I think we all agree here that he's a mag. Matthew Vraničar Erman is one of the leading experts in his field, with rich experience. Its slogan is also very interesting to me: We are creating a solidarity society in which people can live with dignity from their own work. This is her slogan, which will surely be followed for the next two years, and it also has a vision behind it. It supported these words with five key priorities of the Ministry of Finance in the future. These key priorities are: the budgetary area, the tax area, the management of the country's capital investments, the financial system and the international financial area. Allow me to touch the vision of a candidate for a minister in the tax area. It seems important to me that in the future we will also review areas where the Slovenian tax system is uncompetitive and what objectives we want to pursue in doing so. The aim of the Minister is to conclude this year's restructuring project and start a new package of improvements. At the same time, she and all of us are very aware that different stakeholders want even more, but if we want to maintain stability, this is the most we can afford right now. It also wants to continue removing administrative barriers, which will improve the business environment, which is essential in this mandate. It is, of course, aware that the growing development of information technology needs to be used for solutions that may have been unacceptable in the past due to excessive complexity. It will also focus on increasing the efficiency of collecting public benefits. In particular, it wants to be effective in detecting various irregularities, in reducing tax debt, and in increasing legal security taxpayers by making more rapid decisions, particularly in appeals procedures. Procedures in these areas are already under way, already in operation. In the tax area, a project to modernise the real estate taxation system is also very important. The documents that touch on these updates, including the renewal of the mass evaluation system, are already at public hearing, so that its vision is in fact already publicly available. The candidate in this government also worked successfully with Minister Dr. Marble. Why do I believe she'll be a good finance minister, as she was a good secretary of state? It has helped to achieve successful indicators, to achieve great positive goals. Firstly, it has helped Slovenia to successfully exit from the surplus deficit process. In reducing the sector deficit from 5% of GDP in 2014 to 2.9 GDP in 2015. This is the lowest level of financial public deficit since the start of the crisis. In 2016, in line with the country's adopted budget, a further reduction in the country's deficit to 2.2 GDP is foreseen, which will be its main task. Another time. Slovenia continues to be indebted from 2015 to historically low interest rates, mainly due to the decline in required returns to the maturity of Slovenian bonds. Thirdly, but not last time or only that, credit ratings are raised. Standard & Poor's recently raised the rating to A, a stable outlook. Which means lower risk for the country, easier access to financial markets and cheaper debt. Unfortunately for me, of course, what are the thoughts of the predecessors, who say that everything is bad, that the Minister is not good, is not appropriate when we can see that, in essence, foreign people are evaluating us better than we are assessing ourselves. Once again, I feel like a candidate with a job so far as a secretary of state has proved that she is suitable for a minister. Moreover, with her vision, she committed herself to continue to lead one of the most important pillars in the country in a responsible manner. I believe she will be confirmed as Minister and I thank her or I wish her a successful job in advance for the sake of all of us, and I also thank her for everything she has done so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u30	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get ready for Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenka and Mag. Bojan Kranjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. A circled ministerial team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Although the future minister is not present, he is probably listening to us somewhere, so allow me to congratulate you on this courageous act. The fact that you have decided to accept this great challenge and move into the world of politics is completely into the world of politics, which is a ministerial function. Even though you have long experience in the work of the secretary of state at the Ministry, I do not think that this work will be the same as yours so far. There will be a significant need for more correctness, accountability, and also for a lot of courage. I believe that you will be able to do this because women are usually more persistent and even braver, as you are proving yourself with your work so far. Being the custodian of the budget and the Treasury is a very difficult task. The wishes of all citizens and citizens are great. Public finances are geared towards achieving the objectives of society and priority decision-making will therefore be difficult as it is the task of the State to redirect income with a view to greater solidarity, i.e. from wealth to wealth. In addition, the Ministry must follow the economy in particular in order to achieve macro-economic objectives by means of measures and to distribute all the funds collected in an appropriate, responsible and efficient manner. This will not only benefit people but also public finances. Therefore, let me continue to highlight only one priority of the Government, and this priority of the Government is crucial – investing in human health. This is one of the areas where it is not necessarily a cost that we put into health care, even a minus for the budget. I fully agree, however, that some money needs to be invested in order for people to be healthy. And watch out! Even more money needs to be provided or invested if people are sick. These are also major challenges for the Minister of Finance. I will refer to the case of waiting periods that go beyond legal leave. The data are alarming, as some also exceed 400 days. I know we're not talking about health today, waiting hours, but health and finance are two connected units that have to walk hand in hand. People who wait months and months for a specialist then wait for intervention and are in the hospital stock — what is going on? This means huge costs for a health insurance company. In 2015, these costs for hospital absences increased by 19 million euros, representing 9%. This should include the employer’s costs for the absence of a hospital for up to 30 days. Hospital absences also constitute an obstacle to the productivity of people and their employment and social inclusion. Long-term hospital stocks due to the slow supply also result in permanent loss of capacity. The costs arising from this can be immensely high for both people, the economy, the health system, health insurance and, last but not least, the public financial situation. That is why we have already pointed out in our Group's position that we expect a particular understanding of this area from the future Minister of Finance. Of course, I am well aware that problems are not solved by the use of money. There's always too little of that. However, by withdrawing funds does not mean that problems will be reduced. On the contrary. Therefore, I think it is very important that the Minister of Finance show understanding in this area. That doesn't mean he's taking responsibility for everyone. However, it means that it is aware of the importance of investing in human health and that it is willing to cooperate with those responsible for finding solutions, as well as with the demands for greater responsibility and transparency of the healthcare system. This is the only way that people will trust us again, making it more difficult for them to fall prey to empty promises about the excellent functioning of privatized health. Of course, there are even more expectations, a respected future minister. Above all, I also expect order in the area of the Company with the management of state property, wages and, in particular, the latest information on the introduction of loyalty allowances. For me, this supplement is totally unacceptable. Also in the field of tax policy, which was designed in your mandate to continue this. Green tax reform, the functioning of social solidarity systems, the provision of public investment in key public infrastructure, which we discussed extensively in yesterday's interpolation. So, dear future Minister of Finance, you are on a difficult path. You will be the first finance minister in the history of Slovenia. On this journey, I wish you much success, courage, as few stressful situations as possible. And never forget that you work for the welfare of citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mursich. Replica mags. Grimes. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u33	With all due respect, to my colleague's opinion, but you know, if the government makes $123 million for illegal migrants, but it doesn't find money to eliminate waiting lines, it's not an investment in human health, as you just said, but it's an investment in power. In the power represented by the new electorate, where there is yet another interesting effect when the left and the grande capital are sniffed together, a capital that is interested in as low as possible. This government does not work in this part in the interest of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is an engine of modern economy, but in the interest of power and capital. Just like that part of Europe that is now unrestrainedly importing migrants into its territory. And that this is not only a Slovenian problem, nor just a European problem, that people may understand better how the world has changed, see that the same is happening even in America, where all the work today with Trump is supported by Hillary Clinton, but the whole capital supports Hillary Clinton, because, of course, she has similar goals as you do here. But that classic left thing with those classic schemes has nothing to do with it. The problem is that if we want security if we want to have prosperity, we need appropriate government measures to ensure security and stable financing and, on the other hand, to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises so strongly that we are at least comparable to neighbouring Austria that this most productive part of the Slovenian nation will no longer go abroad. But when I do, then everything else will be easy to solve.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u34	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Get ready, mags. Bojan Krajnc and Mr Andrej Chuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State and candidate for Minister, who I believe is escorting us from another room, welcome! We know Mateo Vranič Erman well. Every time financial laws were introduced when the budget had to be defended in previous years, it was the one that was present at the committees and also at the meetings of the National Assembly. So we kind of know what we can expect from her. We would, however, like to maintain this practice of our presence here in the National Assembly as a minister, and not to send its secretary of state to the meetings from the day she becomes a minister. In her presentation, she pointed out that the long-term goal is the decent life of citizens and residents of Slovenia from their own work in all periods of their lives. It's a very nice goal, and I agree with it in a very nice way. But all this is difficult when on the other hand we have increasing burdens and, I will say so, too few employees in the private sector. However, this objective is very difficult to achieve. In the presentation itself, there was no measure to indicate the direction of the unloading, indicating that individual taxes will be implemented somewhere in the next two years within its expected mandate. But we know we're getting new taxes in very short, probably this property tax. I myself pointed out that she had learned much from the unconstitutional law, the real estate law of 2013, and in particular had learned that speed was not appropriate and had predicted that this time it would go much slower in cooperation with all stakeholders, municipalities, economic associations, value assessors and so on. It also announced that the same amount of income will be followed from those real estates that are already subject to the burden under the NUSZ, i.e. compensation for the use of the building land. But what's worrying here? That it is at this very time that the congregations are advised to raise this compensation. More clearly, this so-called slow procedure will first encourage the congregations to increase this compensation so that it can be justified in some way, yes, as the tax will not be higher. But let us monitor this from this point forward and also this is somehow part of her work. It was also said that the new doses were expected to be expected in 2019, in some way outside the existing mandate. This is probably not just an accident, for we know similar stories from the past. We didn't actually hear anything new in the presentation. We have asked a lot of specific questions, but we have not received a number of concrete answers. It has also been pointed out several times that a particular issue falls under another heading. True, but with finances, everything always ends in finance, and the Minister of Finance is usually the one who says the last word in almost all projects. That is why this is an extremely responsible place and a great responsibility for the future minister. I have already raised one question in my own hearing: in the past, the Minister's candidate publicly expressed disagreement with the R & D facilitations. In some way, she then argued that these R & D facilitations showed some positive trends and that she also intended to maintain them at the level that was changed in 2012, during the second Janša government. Now, of course, I will say, in some way worrying that Furs has recently begun to take into account a new criterion when verifying the eligibility of these benefits in companies, if the present element of innovation and the resolution of scientific or technological uncertainties is on a global scale. This was highlighted by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. And according to them, most companies do not comply with this condition. And what I find controversial is that this criterion was not known to companies in that year, but it was introduced now and taken into account retroactively. The Minister's candidate was a secretary of state to several ministers, three ministers, with several different directions of action, and in some ways she has never been directly politically exposed. Now, of course, it will also have to make political decisions with expertise, which are often not simple. Many of them have been waiting for her in the coming months. She pointed out she'd know how to say no. We have experienced this many times before by the opposition Members, very easily saying no, but of course it will be a bigger problem when one of the parties to the coalition has to say no. So I believe it'll be very varied here, but that's actually your business. But I can't agree with what she said at the hearing session, that she's saying bad proposals, no, because this is supposed to mean that the opposition proposals after her assessment are all bad, which, of course, is not true. Now, about the personnel business, about her future team, she didn't want to expose herself, she didn't want to predict who she was gonna invite into the team. However, I wish that the old ones here would not be so-called already tested personnel who have recently left the same ministry. Because, after all, it's very important who's sitting next to her at the Ministry. He manages large assets and, as we have already mentioned, he faces great challenges. Finally, the privatisation of our largest Ljubljana Bank, which in some ways is miraculously moving away or is being delayed, either on purpose or not, should be decided by everyone, but we know what its current course is. Personally, these measures, which she has very much advocated, I cannot agree with. One of these is the introduction of tax boxes. Now, if she said that she had learned from the unconstitutional real estate law of 2013 that speed was not good, this rate was still forced when tax registers were introduced. At that time, we also put forward many constructive proposals on the opposition's side, highlighting the specific problems that are still taking place on the ground today. Well, some of them were then taken into account by coalition amendments, and some of them apparently missed and later made some minor repairs, but the law is still bad or unnecessary. Let us also recall that she was the secretary of state when the value added tax was raised. And even now, as it is, I'm going to say what I'm going to say at 22%. Of course, if we look at that cupcake on the revenue side, we see that value added tax brings a very large percentage. And if you want to raise your income, of course, it's easier to raise your taxes. But that kind of policy, I'm sorry, doesn't seem appropriate. We will continue to talk about the mini tax reform at this meeting. In general, it is a mine, there are some cosmetic adjustments that go to the detriment of those who work to the detriment of economic operators, so, of course, as a whole, I cannot support them. In the future, we have a budget, and it has predicted that it will be developed. From past experience, I don't believe that's gonna happen, but I let myself be surprised. However, I would like it to be developed, to be developed also in terms of coherent regional development and to be allocated slightly more resources to those areas in Slovenia that are slightly less developed or below the Slovenian average. Because of the activities and projects that I consider to be inappropriate, irregular, of course, ministers, future, or a candidate for a minister as a minister, I do not intend to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Beautiful Chimenko. I give the word "magic." Bojan Krajnc. Mr Andrej Chuš and Mr Branko Zorman be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Initially, I join the joy of colleagues who expressed it in the introductory debates when we have a candidate and I also believe the real Minister of Finance of the woman, even the first woman after independence. And I believe that the qualities that some of you have mentioned that women have will successfully take advantage of in their work at the Ministry of Finance and, of course, in cooperation with colleagues, in particular with the President of the Government. It's not necessary to repeat that, of course, mag. Matejo Vraničar Erman has been well known since before, not only from cooperation in this mandate, but here the coalition has conducted numerous interviews in the coordination of laws, but also, of course, since before. In detail, I would not repeat its biography and experience in the field of taxes, the customs system, public accounting and budgets, but it is, of course, a good basis and a good traveller, which is promising that its functioning at the Ministry of Finance will of course be successful. What I would like to focus on in my debate is actually its presentation to the Committee on Finance. I must say that I was pleasantly surprised to see the title of her presentation, so the first page bears the title Create a Solidarity Society in which people can live with dignity from their own work. Perhaps I expected the title and all the content to be devoted to more technical work, i.e. strictly to finance, but it was from the title and its presentation later that the candidate actually understood what the funding was intended for – a solidarity society in which people could live decently from their own work. From this title and its presentation later came, at least for me, the red thread of its presentation and what it should serve, and that is, of course, to promote economic growth. Of course, the other aspects you mentioned here are also important, but we do not, of course, imagine, at least I personally do not, that we could do everything else if we do not have the right economic activity. The presentation thus shows that the candidate is very well aware of the responsibilities in the financial system. She said that bank rehabilitation should be used to actively support the financial system to the economy in terms of accessibility and funding costs. Another important thing in the international financial field is that the rules of the European Semester and economic governance must provide a stable public financial framework, adding: "But at the same time they must support economic development and economic growth". These are the two most important points that I have seen in her presentation, and of course they speak of the fact that the candidate is aware of the broader images in the functioning of the country, where finances are not limited to numbers, lines, tables, but serve the purpose, in this case the economy from which everything comes. I also have to agree with those who have talked about some of the challenges she will face. For me, there are two, the first is the management of the country's capital investments in line with the strategy and the soon-to-be renewed and active management of bad claims, including the restructuring of companies and the extension of the economy. Therefore, the challenges will not go without the active support of the economy and, in fact, I am most pleased at everything, so of course I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much, mag. Krajnc. I give my word to Mr. Andrey Couch. Get ready for Mrs. Vojka Šergan and Maria Bachič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At the outset, I would like to focus primarily on intergenerational dialogue and policy in this area. For I myself, as the youngest Member of the National Assembly, have been pointing out the problem of inequality in the labour market for several years, mainly in terms of youth employment. There are a lot of problems here that are unfortunately not being solved. I would also like to point out that there is a lack of genuine social dialogue. I am talking about this sincere social dialogue when everyone in some things gives little credit to society in general. Unfortunately, this is not detectable in society. Young people are evicting from Slovenia in a mass way, while pensioners spend their day day after day. So that I can assess that the policy of the last few governments has unfortunately led us into an intergenerational conflict, and there will be a need for swift and effective measures that will have short- and long-term consequences. Secondly, I would also touch on these mini tax reforms, which will give the government something that is contrary to what politicians should do. Reforms have started to take people away and not give them away, so that people with every reform essentially lose and gain nothing. This is also a legitimate concern, and we see it in the general climate both between the population and the economy. High school's gone. More and more people in Slovenia are the same as in poverty. Economic growth will need to be launched here, better conditions for the economy to start up, new jobs to reduce taxes, and of course we must also lose innovation in the area of bureaucratic barriers, which are more from day to day. Unfortunately, we also need to learn that more and more Slovenes are working abroad. I expose the problem of migrant workers, which is a citizen and citizens who went from the Slovenian periphery to work mainly in Austria. The Minister's candidate for dialogue with them persistently rejects or ignores them, but when there is a meeting, the proposals of them are smoothly suppressed. Migrant workers don't fight for any privilege, they just want equality. That is why, of course, I also appeal to you, colleagues and colleagues, a few days ago we received a letter from the migrant workers' union informing us of their problem. And I also call on all present to examine the arguments they have drawn up and to eliminate the injustice that has been committed for almost 20,000 workers and their families in the periphery of Slovenia for almost a decade. Soon we will also decide on amendments to the Income Act. Now we have the opportunity to show how much we really care about the righteous arrangements for young people who are going to work abroad. It is our duty to get to know or know about discriminatory and unfair legal solutions, of course, and to do so. Madam Minister, because of your past actions, which has always been in the direction of increasing taxes, new bureaucratic obstacles, and of course also ignoring civil society, especially migrant workers, I cannot support you, but I want to listen to them in the future and somehow change the policy that you yourself have implemented as Secretary of State for the past 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Chus. I give the floor to Mrs Vojka Shergan, to prepare Mrs Marija Bačič and Nada Brinovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! She's a candidate for minister, Mrs. Mag. In fact, Mateja Vraničar Erman has already presented her work as future finance ministers with excellent and substantive accuracy on the Committee on Finance. She answered questions from Members and Members very precisely and comprehensively. I think we've already received a lot of answers to the questions that were extremely positive there. In the SMC, I also greatly appreciate that its aim is to preserve the achievements of the past two years, when Slovenia came out of a surplus deficit and is finally economically independent. She also stressed that she would advocate a society that would be solidarityable so that people could live decently with their work. In terms of how this can be achieved, this is somehow a goal and a vision, but it also presented that this should be achieved in such a way as to be supported by means that are available, projects and all those investments that are deliberate and that will in some way add value. For only higher added value can lead to more taxes then in the budget and not least, so that people can live better. And that seems important to me. Of course, I wouldn't agree with the predecessor that the climate in the country is getting worse. There's always a better climate in the country. People have become more positive. There are more and more who have ideas, and if we go around Slovenia and in the field, people represent a great deal of innovation and ideas, how to actually work on, how to work and how to work on their own work to bring added value. However, as far as migrants are concerned, I would also say that the candidate for a minister pointed out that she was ready for dialogue, was in the past and is also in the past, and that she wants to talk to migrants, but only I would say that it is important that the dialogue always takes two sides. And I think that also by migrants there will have to be a greater willingness to engage in dialogue again, and somehow it will be necessary to realise that when we adopt new rules on tax collection, we must not create new injustices to those who pay them. In this case, it is also important to keep an eye on the fact that we do not wrong people who are at home paying taxes. It is therefore necessary to engage in dialogue and agree on how taxes will be paid in this area. In fact, I would also like to point out that somehow this is going to be the first finance minister of a woman in Slovenia alone, it seems to me that this also has a particular meaning and a particular challenge, because, as the predecessor has already said, it is also right for women to co-create in such situations in the development of the country. However, where I see its advantage or great advantage, it is that it will be able to start work immediately. That's why I'm going to be a candidate for Minister Mag. Matthew Vranic Erman supported it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Shergan. I give the floor to Mrs. Bachič. Prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and Mr Tillen Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to address my message or my debate to the future finance minister, who I am sure is listening to us. Dear future Minister Mag. Mateja Vraničar Erman, I am aware that you are taking on the most responsible and important resource in the country, because you will be the person who will be the custodian of public finances and budgets, which can often be an unappreciative task, because all eyes and our expectations will rest with you and your decisions, because we will often want to take the most out of you. Even if you wanted to, you'd often have to say no. Many times you will have a thorough assessment of when and for how long to open the small so that we will never again and again be in debt. At your presentation, you were asked if you would ever hope to say no. You have firmly replied that I appreciate what you have here, because I am sure you will say not when you have a professional argument about this. As Secretary of State, you have proven yourself to be professional and principled, but also understanding, which, of course, she has returned. We all know you've got a hard job ahead of you. If we stop only in health care, which will require a lot of money, if we want to go against patients and shorten such long waiting lines. It is true that if we are to be a healthy society, something must be given to do so. Better put in health and prevention than later into disease. If I touch the ageing population, which are plagued by severe and long-term diseases and, of course, long-term care. If we want older people to live as long as possible, to experience a life worth living, we will need the help of others. The ageing population does not at first seem to be a problem for the finance ministry, but the second view already reveals that, in fact, the overall public finances depend on the demographic structure and the relationship between the active and the maintained population. Even smaller imbalances can pose a major problem, but the longer term can mean only two alternatives, or leave old people who need help, to themselves, to their owners and to their property, or to organise themselves as a society in a solidarity way, by creating insurance and mechanisms to enable everyone to hope for assistance and inclusion when they need it. We therefore face great challenges in this area: insurance for age and long-term care, the establishment of a demographic fund with profits that could at least partially cover the rising costs of age care. These are, you don't want, the problems the new finance minister's gonna have to deal with right away. I want a finance minister who will recognise the importance and validity of the problems and actively approach them. Therefore, a respected candidate, our expectation, the Social Democrats, is your understanding of this area. Why am I stressing this? Because I believe that, as future Minister, you are aware of the importance of investing in human health and will be willing to cooperate with all those responsible for finding solutions, as well as with the demands for greater responsibility and transparency of the healthcare system. And since I believe in you, I will be happy to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bachich. I would like to point out that we have four other debaters at this point. First of all, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Janko Weber should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Presidents and colleagues in the Chamber, first of all, I would like to point out that the proposaler has not been in this Chamber all morning and that we are talking about such an important role as Minister of Finance. The Secretary of the Ministry of the Economy is exceptionally commended. Unfortunately, her future colleagues, too, say ministers, do not accompany this meeting here in the Chamber today. As has been said many times today, the candidate for Minister of Finance is the first woman in free Slovenia, and this proves more and more that the women's world is standing. I must say, by agreeing to the candidacy, the candidate has undoubtedly shown that she is very brave and ambitious. When I did a little digging through the media about the candidate, I noticed that I wanted to go to the mountains after a hard job, which I need to say, and that I really liked dancing tango. As Secretary of State she worked under the tactics of three finance ministers of various political parties, it is said, first Križanič, Chufer and lastly Marble. So, dear colleagues, we can conclude from this, or we can all conclude that the candidate not only likes to dance tango, but also dances it well. When the candidate Prime Minister Cerar proposed for the Minister of Finance, he commented on this nomination in a way that Mrs Vraničar is a very positive person and represents the same objectives as he himself, a transparent business and legal functioning are said to be. The fact that Mrs Vranič is a positive person is very good. However, I was concerned about Cerara's second statement, namely that the candidate represents the same goals as he himself. The transparent and legal functioning of Prime Minister Cerar – questions arose here immediately. With regard to transparency, first of all, I see his staffing, his human resources change -- nothing else matters, just that you're ours. Or as for legal action, first I think about the Constitutional Court's decision to equalise public and private education funding. The Minister has not yet enacted or amended the law, while Prime Minister Cerar is not responding. And here's the question of legal action. I was also concerned by the statement made by the candidate herself at the presentation on the parental committee when she spoke about which taxes the Government would raise. The candidate said something like this, nominal rates should not be increased, but exceptions are exceptional cases. Exceptions are exceptional cases. Look, I'm very worried about these extraordinary cases. After all, the work of this government is an exceptional case, or it is based on exceptional cases. See, the government argues on the one hand that all indicators, economic indicators show some gradual improvement, but right here we ask ourselves why the government stopped funding or stopped budget implementation on 22 August this year. That's a question for me. The candidate also says that this mini tax reform will relieve labour costs first and that this legislation will make the environment more attractive to the employment of those more skilled personnel and that all of this will prevent the transfer of our staff abroad and, of course, contribute to higher economic growth. Warning from all sides that this mini tax reform will in no way improve competitiveness and keep these young people, especially educated staff, the ministry, I must say, simply disregard. The fact is that with the proposed reforms, this mini tax reform is said not to satisfy anyone, not the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, nor the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Employers, Trade unions, not least citizens as well as, most importantly, economists. The Chamber of Economics points out that this proposal for this mini tax reform raises mainly public sector wages, while the burden of change will have to be borne by the economy. Look, the average wage in the public sector is, grossly I say, a thousand 832 euros, the average wage in the economy is a thousand 416 euros. And here I cannot ignore the fact that this government has left the circus this year of 4,000 new civil servants, which it will spend a lot of millions more on their salaries. I also wonder how Mrs Vraničar will negotiate with Minister Koprivnik and, of course, trade unions. I wonder if a candidate will go to these talks in some kind of negotiating fiasco as we have been used to so far by the coalition. As Secretary of State Mrs Vraničar also participated in the failed projects, here I am thinking in particular of this famous real estate tax, after the collapse of this law, we all know that the candidate lady also offered her resignation. That, however, about its tax bills project, which has experienced a very negative response between economists and between citizens, that I am not talking about it at all. It is also interesting to hear a statement by the Minister, a candidate for the Minister, when she says she has never been in a position to defend a proposal that is contrary to her values and beliefs. And I have to say this, I just don't believe her. However, despite the fact that the candidate for Minister has never been in this position before, I am strongly convinced that she will be as soon as she takes office as the Minister of Finance. Maybe when the budget is first prepared. As we know, the budget must be submitted to the National Assembly by 1 October of this year. I hope that this budget will be more developmental for the next two years and that it will not only be devoted to non-economic spending, as we know it was in 2015 and 2016. Here I also wonder what the candidate for minister thought or thought when, by the way, 300 million were allocated to the Ljubljana municipality, the 36 projects to be carried out over the next three years. I wonder if she thought about her values here and whether she even thought about the countryside here. However, if this is in line with her beliefs and values, I will say that it is very much concerned about what will happen in the future with rural financing. The candidate is waiting immediately after the appointment of the Minister of Coordination on average with the municipalities. I hope that in this coordination, the candidate will not forget that the municipality has been the main generator of rural development in recent years, and that the municipalities have received in particular additional tasks in recent years, and of course not the means to carry out these tasks. The candidate is also awaiting various projects, such as a failed real estate tax project, privatisation of state property, for example NLB – we have heard about this today. I am also interested in how the candidate, as Minister, will cooperate with DUTB and SDH. Will it continue, as the ministry has so far avoided any responsibility? It will meet with EU funding, which was not satisfactory this year. It also faces a very big challenge in this area. Look, we still don't have a fiscal world. The search for candidates will certainly not be easy, as experience has shown. Today we have heard from the coalition how many laws have been passed in this financial sector. However, I must say that all those laws that have been passed or most of these laws have either burdened the economy or somehow harmed our citizens. I would like to say that, as Minister, she will need a very hard skin; of course, under the assumption she advocates to maintain her values and the belief that she is doing the right thing. I only hope that the candidate will not follow the words or actions of her boss, says Prime Minister Cerar, who is somehow talking about his transparent, legal, ethical and moral functioning. I also hope that, in the event of the first failure of the project, she will not give up or offer her resignation, as she did as a secretary of state. However, I want the candidates to dance tango and no rock 'n' roll at the Ministry under its leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Janko Weber and the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. At this point in the agenda, we have heard quite a number of arguments that my colleague, my fellow Member, Marko Pogačnik, has put forward, and all of these areas, such as 30 he mentioned, would be required or expected to be answered by the proposer at this point, because these are important matters of the government. The proposer of this item is Prime Minister Miro Cerar, unfortunately only after that opening presentation and a few minutes later he was present here and then he left. As regards the financial functioning of the State, this is one of the key areas and, given that the candidate cannot respond to this, it is more than normal to expect the candidate to do so. I think it is a very reasonable expectation that the President of the Government would tell and explain to the Slovenian public why Slovenia has higher taxes than neighbouring Austria. Why do a thousand 500 euros pay grossly 200 euros more than Slovenia for Austrian employees? The answers have to be given here. Or, say, why is the price of fuel lower by 10% in Austria or at least 10% lower than in Slovenia? Is the Slovenian state effective? It is designed to allow people to make their own decisions about their earnings or to take more than they do around us in developed countries. If I make this very simple, this is a sign that the Slovenian state in its operation is not effective, that it is overburdened by costs and that in this area the Government has done nothing in the field of rationalisation, but is building a state administration, public administration by increasing the cost share and thus the need for new taxes. It is hard for you to talk about eliminating conditions or the causes of poverty if you increase taxes — in the same people! If the employee gets 200 euros less on the same gross income as in the neighbouring country. Austria does not need to, because it has a more relaxed, more stimulating, better, more favourable income scale for an employee, so much social transfers. Probably not. This means that financial and social policy is intended only for the translation of money. That's one of the big problems. The other thing is that in some ways the concept of existing ineffective policies is being followed. The President of the Government here with the new Minister of Finance should probably also offer a new concept of public finance management, state-owned property, with policies in this area. However, of all the coalition Members, it was very exciting to continue with this. This is said to be by raising taxes, new taxes, extra burdens and so on. It is likely that structural changes in government, changes in human resources and so on are being made in order to change without continuing the bad policy which I have argued at two points. It is very unwise for a candidate for a minister to offer municipalities to raise taxes. It is very unwise for the Government to support the solutions proposed by the coalition Members with which they bring new taxes. And it's probably very unwise that the primary task of this government is to come up with a new tax called real estate tax. We talk in the National Assembly when they are in power — I don’t know when Pahor’s government was when Alenka Bratušek’s government, when Cerar’s government was now — was just about how we would raise taxes. There is no proposal, however, to rationalise or put public administration in normal frameworks. Not a single suggestion! Salaries in the public sector are a key part of budget expenditure. With each new job, with each additional burden, with each additional million needed to do so – approximately EUR 30 to 50,000 is considered by the public administration as well. If at this time there were 6,000 jobs in the public sector, this means — I don't know how much — 10, 12 million extra costs for the budget to be collected somewhere. And then here we're dealing with whether we're going to give 5 million more for roads, as was said yesterday, or not. You're wasting it. You're wasting it. Before he decides anything, he's gone. I think the Prime Minister of the Government should take more than five minutes to be the most important minister in the country. Some even say that he is even the most important or the second most important person in the country, and the Prime Minister of the Government, who is not proposing this personnel proposal. He took five minutes at the beginning, asking if he would have another five minutes at the end of time to explain how he pictured the management of economic, financial and property management policies in that country, which belongs to that area. What the President of the Government has afforded is underestimating. It is an underestimation of the problems; it is the underestimation of Members to decide on them; it is the mockery of a coalition that speaks and defends the President's candidate for minister; and for this table where the Government sits, there were no representatives for more or less than three quarters of the time. Not a single one! You now have the Secretary of State on the economy, Mr Cantharutti, and that is all. However, the proposer is not able to defend the human resources proposal and is unable to defend or defend the policies which he will impose on these citizens and also you, the coalition Members, through implementing acts and the budget. What we heard — these praises have no real basis in anything. You poor people, as we continue to pay 200 euros in the same gross wages as in Austria, cannot eliminate poverty. That's impossible. For the same salary, EUR 200 has a lower standard of Slovenian workers than Austrian workers. Paying higher fuel costs to pay more or less the cost of food to pay more or less I don't know what else is going on. And there is no real prospect that anything will change in this area. There's no real appearance. But here we only deal with how some things will be redistributed, how much more will we give to poor children for lunches, and so on. Pay them! The 200 euros more they earn, as they do in Austria, in the same way, with hard work, and with the income scale allowing them to cover and distribute themselves. Not that they will be making applications, putting themselves in line, filling out forms, and there will be some officials, who are too many, deciding whether or not they will receive a regressive meal for so much or so, whether they are in this income class or not. This is purely the cultivation of bureaucracy and the creation of new unnecessary jobs, already with the way these things are carried out, many things are determined, especially how this will be regulated. The second thing the President of the Government said in this introduction is an unknown thank you for reducing the unemployed. If you just look at that capital data, it's okay, but when you look at why it happened, it's not so good anymore. Twelve thousand people went to work in Austria at this time. This means that if you did not go there, there would be 110 000 unemployed, because they are migrant workers and because they have some things here, they have to pay the difference in taxes in Slovenia, large amounts of taxes and so on. Even though they themselves have found a solution to their problem, they are then further taxed by the state. Finally – another colleague Marko will say – I would like to touch on this statement by Mrs Simone Kustec Lipicer, who said in her performance everything she could about politics and the financial situation in this country and concluded with the statement: "When we go up, we are suitable women for such functions." So, words about good condition and when water burns, they don't go together. Perhaps you are also aware in your subconscious that the situation is not good and that the policies and measures you are taking do not go in the right direction. In order for a politician to become a politician only because he will lead on the continuity, as explained by his colleague Marko Pogačnik, we will probably not experience any mental, or substantive, or qualitative leap, but simply that this agony, which we have witnessed all these years after 2008, will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Given the presence of a representative of the Ministry of Economy in the Chamber, I will refer to a topic which is also the subject of the Ministry of Finance and the entire Government. It is of great importance that the decisions of the Government are implemented, of course, the President of the Government is primarily responsible for this, and, in so far as the use of public funds is concerned, the Ministry of Finance is assured, especially when it comes to decisions to be implemented in the budget, whose budget or, to a large extent, the right-holder is the Ministry of Finance. What I mean is the law on promoting coherent regional development. The characteristic of Slovenia is that we have more than half of the population in rural areas and that in rural areas there are quite a few areas under this law defined as a problem area due to major development problems. So, job shortages, poor infrastructure, and that's what changes the demographic picture mainly in border areas. What has also been recorded this year is certainly not in line with the Government's decision to provide additional development support for area problems. This support, this decision has been adopted this year until 2020 and I would therefore expect this Decision to be taken into account in the budgets to be followed up in this year and in the coming years. What's this all about? It is also true that we have recently met with a very difficult and sensitive problem of shutting down branch schools in border areas. So it is the most sensitive areas and it has been abolished, for example, the Osilnica branch school, even in Koroška, has been similar, as evidenced by the Government's decision not to take action in the direction it was actually adopted, so that additional development support is provided to these areas so that people can live, work, create in these border areas. If, for example, we analyze the problem of a branch school in Osilnica, where the solution is such that for one year the branch is actually cancelled — only two children would really be enrolled in this branch school, which in itself shows that the decision is not being implemented sufficiently, because if conditions were to be better, more people could live in this area. But for one year, the branch school is being shut down and so transport is being organized in one direction and another, almost 50 kilometers for young students, whose journey is not a good way to successfully integrate into the educational system. But here comes the cost of transportation, still the cost of maintaining a branch school, which is not going to be in which there will be no teaching, but it needs to be maintained, and next year the operation of this branch school will be restored due to the increased enrolment of children. So I think it really needs to be asked, particularly by the Ministry of Finance, how this decision is being implemented and whether these measures are really sound enough and do not entail additional public financial burdens, as if the branch remained and these unnecessary costs with a non-functional facility would practically not be. The following example, which I would like to point out, also concerns the municipality of Osilnica and the problem created by the restriction of freight transport, the implementation of freight traffic across the bridge at the border with Croatia. Here too, we can meet the fact that, years ago, the Ministry of Infrastructure invested more than 100 million euros in the construction of the Osilnica-Dears road. So a road connection has been established that connects this border municipality with the centre of Slovenia in a shorter direction, and this has somehow also been achieved in one part of this task and this measure, which I am talking about, is that there is a need to invest further in these areas. But when this project was implemented by the Ministry of Infrastructure, several hundred million projects are concluded by the Ministry of the Interior, which limits traffic at the border with Croatia and prevents freight traffic from the Slovenian side. On the Croatian side, traffic of up to 35 tonnes is still allowed on the same bridge, but simply on the Slovenian side of this traffic is not allowed. And this investment, which is hundreds of millions of dollars, of course, becomes a dead investment all of a sudden. Therefore, this prudence of investing public funds and coordination between the various resources is crucial for us to make a genuine investment and then to make as much of a profit as possible from this contribution. This is also one of the guidelines presented by the Minister's candidate that funds are being invested where the greatest amount of proceeds will also be made. And to achieve this, it is necessary to coordinate between individual departments, between individual ministries, in order not to take such uncoordinated measures. On the other hand, the Ministry of the Economy, for example, plans certain funds for the development of the economy and the Ministry of the Interior restricts the movement of the economy directly across the border because of the restriction mentioned above. Thus, such anomalies are also taking place in Slovenia and it is possible to do so with a very small measure, only through the consistent implementation of government conclusions and coordination between the various departments, a measure that can indeed achieve effective spending of public funds and, in particular, in order to enable growth and development of individual areas. However, I expect that the budget will include more resources for the problem areas in the coming years, because the first programme for Pocolpje, for example, which was in place in 2010 and has been in force for six years, so until 2016, has obviously not had enough effects and has therefore been extended until 2020. At some point it was necessary to understand this situation in which Slovenia was at the root of the economic and financial crisis and the funds were also drastically reduced for such measures, but we have survived this crisis, but the problem remained in that area and it is therefore considered that more resources are actually allocated to these problems of the area and the lost years are compensated. It is true that this is extremely difficult to make up for, for once you have lost a generation to move out of this space, no additional measure actually helps to change anything in the short term. Here we are talking about measures that are of a short-term nature; therefore, measures at a time when this problem is put to the test. It is therefore very important to systematically monitor the operation of all resources and to truly achieve greater development and faster development for border areas and also greater readiness for people to remain in this space, because the border is certainly the one that is also crucial for each country and where we are actually measuring the success of each country's development. I also appeal to the candidate, of course, to the Ministry of the Economy, so that it is more pervasive, more active on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u51	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I am sure that sufficient arguments have already been made in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, why I myself will not personally support the candidate for the Minister of Finance. If I made a short resume. I would personally expect a candidate who is running for such an important position as Minister of Finance, in fact another person in the government itself, a type of decision that he will have to make. Finally, it will also draw up a budget, allow a minister or a minister from individual departments to implement his proposals or not to give such loose answers to the presentation itself or not to answer the many questions raised, and cannot have my support. The fact is, she was a magician. Matey Vraničar Erman has been Secretary of State three times before different ministers. The characteristics of all these ministers are that they have led a debt policy and a new tax burden. Finally, the candidate must take this responsibility for all the decisions taken by the three ministers. We also know that she was in favour of a real estate tax, which was eventually annulled by the Constitutional Court. Then in a positive way, all we can count on is that she offered her resignation. The fact is that in particular, in areas that, at least for me personally, were the most problematic at the time of Dr. Marble's ministry, the area of state property, the management of it, that it did not actually serve here with a single concrete answer. Today, at least the opposition Members and probably the wider Slovenian public do not know what policy they will advocate in this area. This is mainly the management of the Slovenian state holding company, for the so-called bad bank and will also be responsible for the overall staffing. The proposer has decided, as it is, that the coalition will probably support this candidate, and the responsibility lies with you. It is also likely that we will recall the Secretary of State after a statement at the June meeting, when she stated at the Plenary Assembly that the Coalition Treaty was not a government document and that it was not a government document. I would like to know how the proposer will view this and whether, as a minister, she will also say that the coalition treaty is not in force and that it is not a government document. But I am surprised by another matter, namely that, to this day and also on the committee, she did not want to reveal her closest associates. I specifically asked if she could tell us who her closest colleagues would be, that is, the secretary of state – she did not want to answer. We don't know until today. There's something going on. For me, this is such a negative surprise, and why it hides its closest associates, the names that it will propose for the secretary of state, I can only explain in my own way. That is, he does not want to disclose the name, for he is afraid if she would probably reveal the names – the question of whether any vote of the coalition here would be against it. The move is around the kind of names that have already resigned, but they are not, it is negative for me and I think that, as the finance minister, we should be told by the Members as well as the general public, it will be my narrowest team, I stand behind it, I trust her I don't know what's actually hiding here. It was interesting to hear from the proposaler, the Prime Minister of the Government, who was talking about 50,000 new jobs for young people. Dear Prime Minister, tell me how many of these 50,000 young people have become employed in the real sector economy. We can read that the Slovenian budget goes beyond the wage framework for the public sector by 5%. I am sure that most of these young people are employed in the public sector, but a large majority of them are probably also employed in neighbouring Austria. In fact, excise policy and everything else, I am sure this must be said with determination not to support the Minister. Determined, however, does not necessarily mean determined against the country's indebtedness and new tax burdens, because I am sure that under the new candidate or new minister, the debt policy and the policy of new tax burdens will continue, irrespective of what happens. I'm sure the minister, the candidate, will receive support today. Nevertheless, I wish her good luck on a new path, for the whole [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you very much. You've got your word. We haven't wasted time yet. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u53	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We all know that so far she's Secretary of State. Matthew Vrančnik Erman spent a lot of time here in Parliament. In other words, she did all the work that ministers usually don't like to do when they have to explain the laws and defend things from the opposition here in the National Assembly. This is usually a bit of a pain in the ass for a number of ministers, and this is the work that the Secretary of State has been doing. Of course, with the current policy, we do not agree with the financial policy of this government in New Slovenia, because we have proposed several laws, both tax reliefs and lower contributions, so that people would have more in their wallets, we have proposed the abolition of tax boxes or changes, and everything has been rejected. But all the time, I wondered whether the Secretary of State was personally behind this, or whether he just had to defend what was ordered from the Minister or whether it was a policy of the Minister and the Government. How many of her personal notes are there in these conjectures? She did not embark on a political debate with us, but calmly, professionally, she also advocated it. But now that I can see it, I will hear it, I will feel whether as a new minister she will also show her note, or we will see what is really hers, which she really does. Here I hope and give her this opportunity as a woman – and I am pleased that a woman will still be at the head of state finances – whether she will be willing to listen more to the opposition's proposals. Last but not least, I think that we have given, New Slovenia, good, valid proposals and only a little bit of perhaps need to be finalized or changed and we could all be satisfied, and above all, the economy and our people should be satisfied. We have also proposed raising tax relief from 3 000 to 7 000 to save a large number of our migrant workers, who will now have to pay this difference due to a higher relief in Austria. We don't know what to do with them. On the one hand, they have sought work themselves and are not so taxed in Austria, and on the other hand it would not be right to be in a privileged position against Slovenian citizens. So, we offered a solution. In her defense, she said that this problem would solve — we offer it. Also at the tax office. We know that tax collectors have done a lot of bad things, especially to those involved in complementary, additional activities on farms; small entrepreneurs or voluntary companies – all have had huge costs, and the proceeds are relatively small. Not to mention that some have even closed or ceased their activities. So, future finance minister mags. I want Matei Vraničar Erman to continue her work professionally and also by listening to the opinions and proposals of the opposition and the economy. If this mini tax reform, which will be proposed, puts the economy under additional strain, then I don't know what we're going to do to attract new investors. Of course, no one can tell investors which country they will go to and open businesses and employ people there. It seems particularly important to me that we get new jobs for people. I oppose politicians when they brag about how many new social benefits they have introduced – not how many new jobs we have received, whether they are decent wages. And that's why we don't attract any more investors, because first they look at their obligations, their burdens, and then they go where it's better. We will not support the proposal in New Slovenia, but we will listen and observe with interest what the future policy of the current or future minister will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposal concludes that the Minister of Finance shall be appointed mag. Matthew Vraničar Erman, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th agenda. This concludes the 22nd item of the agenda. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE COLLECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF AUTHORITY AND COMMUNITY RIGHTS, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Cantarutti, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, therefore, a few more explanations of the bill on collective management of copyright and related rights. So there is a third review of the Law on collective management of copyright and related rights, and more than a year and a half behind us. During this time, we have held a number of discussions and coordinations held at the Ministry, the Government, the National Assembly and other professional circles. The law introduced a number of substantive amendments that took into account some of the reasoned comments of collective organisations, including non-governmental organisations, during the final stage; in short, all the stakeholders affected by the law. The nomotechnical corrections proposed in cooperation with the Legal Service of the National Assembly were necessary to increase the clarity and clarity of the legal text and consequently the legal security of the users of this law. The law transposes into the Slovenian legal order a directive on collective management and the issuance of several territorial licences for rights for online use of musical works and separate from copyright we regulate the area of collective governance in the Republic of Slovenia. The law pursues three basic objectives: greater involvement of members of collective organisations in making key decisions of collective organisations, greater transparency in the functioning of collective organisations and more effective supervision of the functioning of collective organisations and users of works of copyright. In line with these objectives, the proposal offers the following main solutions. First, we set up a clear governance structure for the collective organisation, regulate the right of rightholders to become members of the collective organisation, participate in the assembly and take key decisions of the collective organisation; lay down rules for the division of copyright officers and the creation of dedicated funds for the dissemination of cultural and artistic creation in Slovenia; lay down the right to look into documents and data of the collective organisation; we introduce greater transparency of the business of collective organisations by informing the right holders and the public and establishing a uniform form and composition of the annual report of collective organisations; we regulate the issuance of multiple territorial licences for the online use of music works and could also be listed. The solutions presented are the result of months of work and, in our view, represent an important step forward towards greater transparency of collective organisations, a greater impact on their management and the functioning of collective organisation management, which will benefit rightholders. However, the adoption of the law will not, of course, end our work. We are already preparing for the revision of copyright legislation by the Ministry and the Office. We have already received several amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights at the time of this law's consideration. We would like to discuss the proposals with each candidate individually, listening in particular to musicians, performers and their organisations, from which we have also received the most calls. At the Ministry we hope that we will be able to present a modern and harmonised Law on Copyright and Related Rights in this composition in the National Assembly. At the same time, we will closely follow the application of this law in practice, and we are counting in particular on the responses of authors and right holders to which the law is intended, as well as collective organisations and, of course, other users. So, Your Honor, I suggest you support the law in the third reading. Due to the authors, collective organisations themselves, and not least Slovenian creativity in the field of cultural and artistic creation; the areas that build our national identity, the identity of the Slovenian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Anita Koleša will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u57	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. I welcome the team from the Ministry of Economy and, of course, all colleagues and colleagues. Today the draft law on collective management of copyright and related rights is discussed in the National Assembly. In the National Assembly, we have considered the issue of the work of collective organisations in the field of copyright and related rights extremely extensively, and through the process of examining the law we have followed initiatives, proposals and views of authors as well as collective organisations and experts in the field of copyright. I am convinced that all of these discussions, in which we have complemented the content and also technically corrected it, have brought us a number of knowledge, an experience that will also be important for the undoubtedly necessary continuation of the work being started, this is for the adoption of new, updated copyright legislation. In the process of drafting the law, we have clearly found that without the adoption of this law, we cannot successfully start and even less successfully conclude the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. The collective management of copyright and related rights needs a clear and effective legal framework for the benefit of authors and creativity. If I touch on the European aspect, because this law also transposes the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order, we recall that the European Commission has already written in its recommendations 10 years ago that collective organisations should strive to represent the interests of rightholders. The relations between rightholders and the organisation should treat the different categories of holders equally and aim at fair and balanced representation of holders in management, and all the compensation collected should be fairly distributed. Also on the basis of these recommendations and priorities, the law truly pursues three key objectives; the objectives of significantly increasing the involvement of the members of the collective organisation in making the most important decisions, after greater transparency in the functioning of collective organisations and, of course, after more effective supervision of the functioning of collective organisations and also the supervision of users of works. With all these objectives, however, I must state that the red thread of the whole bill is in the desire and demand that the law ensure the transparency of the operation of collective organisations. True, the law preserves the monopoly of a collective organization. If the purpose of the law is to protect the position of the author and consequently to increase the number of creative works, the monopolistic position of the collective organisation or the collective author must be in that function; of course, taking into account all restrictions arising from the rules on the protection of competition. Obviously, the authors themselves were aware of this at the time of the adoption of the law, as they had mostly identified themselves against competition between themselves, who would expel someone from an already small market where users themselves do not separate from existing organisations. Collective governance organisations have and should continue to play an important role in promoting the diversity of cultural expression by providing social, cultural and educational services. The more successful they will be in the hands of the members of this organisation, and in particular the knowledge that the State gives them with this legal basis all the possibilities for their copyright and related rights to be managed for their and also for their universal benefit. I thank all of you, in particular the many authors, collective organisations, the interested public and the competent institutions, who have actively cooperated all the time, that today we have come to the third reading of the law, which, through the comments and amendments made, gave the applicant the opportunity to think very carefully about all the arguments that have been put forward. Members of the SMC will support the proposal for a law on collective management of copyright and related rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u59	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State with a team, colleagues, colleagues, nice greeting! We have before us a bill on collective management of copyright and related rights. But it is an interesting precedent of this coalition, which tells us how laws must be systematic, and then from the system law, this is the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, takes one chapter and puts it into a new, special law. So let me illustrate a little bit about how this legal government works. The Copyright and Related Rights Act has 195 articles, the chapter on collective organisations has 21 or 22 articles. Take this chapter out and make a new law, according to your supposed systemic, which has 88 members. Your Honor, something in this legal government of Dr. Mir Cerar and his desire for systemicism does not apply. This is even more important because we have been monitoring this activity in terms of copyright and related rights for the past ten years, both in person and in the Member States. There have been some attempts, minimum adjustments to make things a little bit better. But then we have another problem: one is marital matter, and the other is practice. But a little bit more about that later. The key thing I want to say in the introduction is that the current Law on Copyright and Related Rights is not even so bad. The problem is, it's not being implemented. This area of collective governance, i.e. as regards the collective organisation in this area, is only a conflict between collective organisations for their easy or difficult way of obtaining supplies. But when we talk about copyright and related rights, there are a lot of open questions, but this government that aspires to systemicism doesn't touch that at all. Today we hear that you may still be on this mission. However, there are several good grounds for us to work together and, if you like, have two laws – the Law on Collective Management of Copyright and Related Rights and Systemic SASP before us. And all we have is some piece that you're creating as a new system. Another worrying fact is that almost everyone is against this law. I must say that in recent days I have looked again at such websites of certain organisations and I find that there are two or three stakeholders who are in favour of this law. The first shareholder is the Government, which is understandable, given that you are the drafters of this law; the second advocate of this law is the parliamentary group of the coalition, which is also understandable, and the third advocate of this law are two collective organisations, which have the same lines of reference from the beginning to the present day. And everyone else is against it. And I agree and believe that both the coalition representatives and the government representatives have spoken to each other, but we have had a problem in the National Assembly many times before; we are talking and we are not speaking. And apparently that's the problem with this marriage, too. The saddest part is that users did not make contact with this law. Otherwise, the Chamber of Commerce wrote something, but they were questioned, for they themselves found that this law did not touch them at all. In our view, in the view of the SDS Group, it is crucial when we are talking about copyright and related rights to advertise authors, i.e. those who are producers of copyright and related rights, and users. But this law brings nothing, at least nothing new to the users. All those innkeepers, gardeners, hairdressers, many presidents of such and different societies who want to settle down, at least know why they pay some kind of organization and why they pay so much. They're not even touched by the system law. We had a lot of questions in the SDS Group, but the answers are more sketchy. So let us, in this final debate in this law, hope to finally get the Law on Copyright and Related Rights before us, one more case. "The signatories object to the proposal of the law, as the basic copyright law remains deliberately unordered in order to bring about positive changes in the interests of music, literature, art, film, dance, architecture and similar creativity. The proposal for a law with the assistance of the Ministry allows us to usurp private copyright property and the violent commercial takeover of collective organisations belonging to authors by users of works of copyright." That's a terrible accusation. We have not yet received concrete answers, whether this is true or not, but I am sure that practice will show that this is true. Opponents say that the proposal is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and we may still see and judge, and we may decide again. They also say that the proposal is not in line with the guidelines of the National Programme for Culture of the Republic of Slovenia, but is in line with the functioning of this government; it has guidelines, has strategies and is working fully on its own. What is problematic and what we agree with in the SDS Group is that the proposal does not comply with the basic European Treaty of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular with the EU Directive 2013/26. The following findings: The law is obviously the product of lobbyist interests of publishing, foreign music dealers in Slovenia and media houses who want to take over music and copyright business in Slovenia through the new law. And I've asked once about the role that the greatest music editors, state-owned companies, Telekom, our national RTV house and so on have played in this law. For when we read the law, we agree with those who are written, quote, "The law is obviously the fruit of international interests and lobbyists by musical multinationals and media groups that are infiltrated, and we are all excluded." More importantly, where are the tests, and why a special marriage? We haven't been able to answer that in months. Not only will it not be bad, but also in the SDS Group we have found some positive solutions that could be supported if they were not contrary to the directive. Even in the SDS Group, before, I think, a good year, we prepared a proposal for a law where we wanted to introduce a single position. But we've given the "introduction." Here again we have the word that usually defiles all laws, the word can be: 'a single position can be introduced'. Today, as I stand here, I am sure that these singles will not be at least next year, because no one will be able to make an effort to make this happen. Another important thing is the supervision of collective organisations, sanctions and other things in this area. Transparency. Read the existing ZASP. There may be some changes, but one is the theory of marriage, and the other is the practice. I am sure that similar articles, as was the case today in one of the media, will employ Slovenian users for the next months and years. When they wonder who and why they have to pay for each other's fights between collective organisations. We have a competent office that, in other words, said that it wants to change individual laws in this direction so that it can be more operational. We hope, distinguished representatives of the office, that this is not just some pear floscule, but that this will also happen in practice. For as co-proneers of this law, you will be responsible if the law is not implemented. I expect that I no longer hear from the competent ministry and the office of words we cannot act on. One and a half years you've been writing this law or whatever it was said. And if everything isn't going to be okay now, I expect you to take some responsibilities and actions of your own. Moreover, contrary to the directive, this law prevents the establishment of new collective organisations. What we have is gold. We can't get anything new. At least those at one of the European parties, Alda, could support the establishment of new collective organisations, but they are obviously concrete, because this shows the intention that even these collective organisations will be set up from more and want to end up being just one or two collective organisations. Moreover, this law allows for the theft of intellectual property. Copyright, intellectual property, these are very strong words for such a nation as we are Slovenians. But apparently international interests and lobbyists play a greater role than protecting Slovenian copyright and intellectual property. We agree with those who say this is a prelude to the destruction of the media's creative landscape. Otherwise, it was an attempt with the Media Act to protect Slovenian music, and we can see that the seized is quite boisterous. Indeed, once again and for the last time, we wonder how many have been heard and, above all, how many collective organisations have been heard in this law. In the end, I quote again. The Directive states: "In the light of freedoms, collective management of copyright and related rights should include the possibility of the rightholder freely choosing an organisation for collective management of rights to manage his rights." I wonder which article, which paragraph, which sentence in this law makes this possible. All of this is said by the fact that only two organizations or collective organisations have not responded to this law, which are very strong indications of who co-created this law. Moreover, in view of what the musicians say, which is now silent, they are likely to point out, sooner or later, that the proposal for that law is not in line with the directive and is contrary to at least three articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia relating to private property, the right to create and a free enterprise initiative. From this point of view, I call on all those who think that their constitutional rights to private property, the right to create and the free enterprise initiative are violated to initiate a constitutional review after the adoption of this law. You had a very simple task, distinguished representatives of the Ministry. On the Committee itself, I have shown a very interesting and well-prepared concept of the regulation of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, where it was written: Ministry proposals, proposals from collective organisations, user proposals. And with the red, where you don't agree at all, with the green where you're going to talk, and with the black where you're aligned, this very interesting and materially rich document is obviously going to land in the trash bin. In short, it is an obvious attempt to introduce the country's monopoly over copyright without analysis. Dear speakers, I hope you have read the white organisational plan of Slovenian musicians who have written their request for the protection of copyright and related rights and for the protection of intellectual property. First-signed – Slavo Avsenik, then I think on at least ten pages there are slightly more and less famous Slovenian authors who wonder how this law has been passed around. That this law is not all right, Your Honor, shows one important fact. In accordance with this mandate, the Legislative and Legal Service has broken the draft law. I think that of the 88 articles, not only the nomotechnic and editorial comments but the heavy content comments have been made to more than 70 articles. And then on the committee itself, when the coalition co-ordinated this law, it wrote below that the law, the amendment, was adopted on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. And at least for every third, it happened that the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that this was not consistent with them and that it was contrary to what the Legal and Legal Service had written down. But this marriage is in some symbiosis with the laws that are before us these days. Tomorrow we'll discuss the chimney law. Similarly, many say that this is an inappropriate law for users, a lobbyist law, where most of the stakeholders are questioned — just as it is in this law. As you have a draft exercise in the field of apprenticeship, take one paragraph or one chapter from vocational and professional education and make a special law. That's what you masters are about. You also prove this by this law, but the law enforcement is trying to convince you that you don't even know how to steal a good idea. To conclude, Your Honor, in this introduction. I'd like to know who will be responsible for the poor implementation of this law. In the SDS Group we will no longer advertise, because as different not only collective organisations have been announced, but different groups, especially users, we think it is no longer worth discussing, because the coalition cylindrical will do its part. You only have one or two options to at least make this law a living, and this is support for the SDS amendments. One is an amendment that speaks of collective organisations having uniform positions, which means less for collective organisations, more for authors and right holders and lower costs for users. And the second amendment that charitable and humanitarian events in cooperation with the authors may be released in 50% or even 100% of the payments of this contribution. But I believe that the coalition cylindrical will not support our amendments, but it will support a law for which, once again, you bear full responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good bye to all of you! Dear Members, in the Desus Group we are aware that the current functioning of collective organisations is often untransparent and the distribution of funds raised among authors in Slovenia is often unfair. It is therefore necessary to regulate this area. It is also clear that there are many different interests in this law and that there are therefore no difficulties in preparing appropriate proposals to satisfy the majority. In January, a decision was adopted at the joint meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Commission on Public Finance, which recommended to the Ministry of Economic Affairs that a new bill should ensure the transparency of the operation of collective organisations and that rightholders should be more involved in making key decisions. We believe that this law before us will regulate the sensitive area of action of collective organisations. It is essential to ensure a transparent transfer between authors and collective organisations. Each collective organisation will now have a meeting, a supervisory committee and management. The bill provides for a way of dividing the author's fees, in accordance with the rules on division adopted by the Assembly. Following the claim of a number of authors, this has been a major problem so far. For one organisation, for example, the resources of authors whose songs are not played often enough should not be paid at all. This is how these authors are supposed to contribute their fees to the common fund to date, from which it is indicated only to those whose playing of songs exceeds an arbitrary threshold. The draft law also lays down the right of holders of rights of access to documents and data of the collective organisation, laying down rules for the composition, reception, audit and publication of annual reports of collective organisations. This seems important to us because some of them in their annual reports have shown different data on collected and distributed copyright fees. The current law covering this area does not contain a more precise provision on how and what data the collective organisation must include in its annual reports, and is therefore incompatible, and there are also allegations in the public of very high amounts to be shared in the form of meetings by the leaders of collective organisations. The draft law thus governs the administration and exercise of rights in one place. It therefore regulates the operation and control of collective organisations, and the umbrella law will change in the near future also because of the speed at which changes are taking place in the field of copyright. For this reason, we will support the proposal of law in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u63	Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! It's just that with the legislation, you have to get to know her well if you want to judge her. Over the next few hours, colleagues and colleagues will try to prove otherwise, but when this law is being considered, we must admit that very few people in this Chamber really know and understand what is going on, exactly what are the solutions and exactly how they will affect the people concerned by this law. The key reason for this is the fact that it is a matter of marriage that concerns only a small circle of people directly, but for this circle this law is a fundamental arrangement that has a decisive impact on whether and how much they will be paid for their creativity and knowledge. The collective management of copyright and related rights is one of the foundations on which authors and performers of music, literature, works of art and other fields of creativity represent their rights and claim their rights — payment. In a country that undervalues creativity and knowledge, it is not surprising that most of the parliamentary debates so far revolved around other topics that have little to do with creators: according to accounts to be paid by users, it is generally believed that order and transparency should be made according to the principle of one voice, foreign and domestic radio stations and publishing and so on. As I said, it's not surprising. There was very little discussion about the situation of Slovenian authors, artists and creators. Despite not knowing the area, however, many have taken the right to trample on the arguments of those who represent the source of survival. If we were more aware of the fact that all creators are workers and should be protected by this logic because of their weaker situation, such behaviour would be less. Instead, there has been more talk about the high compensations charged by collective organisations and the injustices to the recipients of the bills. More was said about the costs of collective organisations and much less about the subordinate position of creators, i.e. people, in relation to publishing, media houses and other users of their work. I mention all this because the quality of the public and political debate was not at the level it deserves. Regardless of our support for the regulation of this area, we must stress the criticism of the lawmaker who claims that the solutions proposed are in line with all stakeholders. The debate certainly showed that this is not the case. However, the number of amendments tabled and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service demonstrate that the applicant understood coordination with stakeholders more than for the form of work and not something that would significantly improve the quality of the law. Just the fact that a subject is difficult and unpleasant does not bind us to responsibility and patience, nor does any ministry. Finally, we Members are put before a decision on a proposal that the professional public cannot unify, but we expect that by adopting the law we will establish a decent platform in which workers will be able to trust that they will not be reinstated for their due payment. The debate and dialogue that we received at the time of the reception with the representatives of the creator have shown that our copyright legislation needs further major improvements in the area of protection of authors, operators and their services. While we will support the proposal of the Social Democrats by a majority, we will closely monitor this area, conduct further dialogue and, if necessary, propose amendments to this law and to cover copyright legislation, which will better protect the position of creators, workers than ever before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u65	Dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government! The starting point of the Law on collective management of copyright and related rights is clear: the transparent and democratic functioning of collective copyright organisations must be regulated. This implies additional requirements for financial operations and additional provisions concerning the arrangements or supervision of the operation of these organisations. We will not oppose the adoption of the law in the United Left, but whether the bill has been sufficiently prepared and is truly in line with all stakeholders is another issue. Including the third reading of the Law on collective management of copyright and related rights, the coalition has tabled more than a hundred amendments, which is more than eloquent. Collective copyright organisations exist in different legal forms and are therefore subject to different rules for the operation, management and publication of reports. They also have different sums of resources, individual collectives often bring together different types of cultural workers, so it is not easy to compare their situation. However, it is monopolistic organisations and also in this respect require particular attention in monitoring and transparency of operations. The figures show considerable discretion between the funds collected and the funds actually distributed. From data provided by the Ministry a long time ago, we have seen an average of one third of the funds raised for the so-called administration, or one way or another, landed with officials. The allocation of funds shall not take into account the criteria of genre, quality, diversity criteria and so on. This is a matter of collective organisations themselves, which are private organisations, and it is clear that this means favouring more established authors and promoting cultural production, which is even more prone to instant consumption. The fact is that collective organisations are also burdened by many accusations of a worse nature, not only in Slovenia, but also more widely across Europe, so better regulation of collective copyright is essential. The development of copyright has been with us for two decades. The issue of copyright and related rights is broader than the situation of collective organisations and is extremely complex, both because of the development of information and communication technology and because of strong conflict interests. Thus, on the one hand, we have the dominant position of a small number of multinationals, where money is running out, on the other hand, we have the interesting integration of creators or authors who are trying to protect their position and their existence, and as interested ceho associations have their problems, some also very pronounced abuses and frauds, and on the third hand, we have direct consumers or the public who have such limited access to cultural and intellectual products. In the United Left, we are committed to a comprehensive reform of this area, particularly with a view to introducing alternative legal mechanisms. Specific examples and examples already exist, for example, Creative Commons licenses or open content projects, which allow for free cooperation, dissemination and noble ideas and which take into account the existence of cultural workers and the development of human creativity. As we say, in the United Left we will not oppose the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u67	Your Honor! As we have already said at the first reading of this law, the area of the regulation of collective management of copyright and related rights is extremely complex and complex. It is a sensitive relationship between authors on the one hand and users on the other, including collective organisations with which few are truly satisfied. In this relationship, a number of people in the past have wanted to cut down, and actual changes and progress to date have not been achieved by anyone, according to our assessment. In New Slovenia we tried to help better regulation in 2013 and unfortunately there was no support for our law. The story appears to repeat itself and to the bill on collective governance of copyright and related rights under consideration, we have all received a lot of negative opinions from the interested public. Collective organisations are responsible for collecting, collecting money from those who use these services and distributing it among those who create their works. This is what many of us meet in the field daily, especially those who organize any event. After the events we get an account for the use of songs and other author services. The three key proposals we proposed in our amendment to the law three years ago were: to limit the cost of operating collective organisations such as Sasas, IPF and other organisations; we tried to limit their costs to 20% of the money they collect or to a maximum of EUR million. Less than the costs of these organisations, the more money remains for the authors and, if the costs of these collective organisations are lower, the smaller accounts of the users and organisers of the various events are also. We have also proposed the introduction of a single account for all collective organisations. If we organize a fire party today, we will most often receive an account from Sasas, the IPF, and perhaps from any other organisation. Many people don't know why so many different accounts, so we wanted to force all these organizations to give a single account so that the user would pay only one account. They would introduce discounts for charity events, such as fire-fighting or charity concerts, where operators do not raise enough money to cover costs, and then perhaps there is something left for charity purposes. This is why we have proposed automatic discounts for all the 50% charity events. The government proposal for this law, which we are considering today in the third reading, goes in the right direction in two areas, providing a legal basis for issuing a common account and allowing common tariff agreements to be concluded with representative organisations. Christian Democrats do not oppose the law because it points to the right direction in certain points. However, we estimate that there are still large reserves regarding the regulation of collective organisations.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a law. Dr Dragan Matić has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany and Mrs Marush Škopac. Dr. Matić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, chairman! We will certainly support and support the bill all the time, as it is being debated on it, because it sets a reasonable expectation for its objectives that what is missing will be established today, once the law is passed, and this is a condition for restoring the confidence and reputation of both collective organisations and the functioning of state authorities responsible for overseeing the enforcement of the rules on collective management of copyright and related rights. The situation in the area of collective governance in Slovenia is poor – we are talking about copyright. The relationship between authors, rights holders, users of protected works and the country is poorly transparent, and, above all, there is no trust among all key stakeholders. Unfortunately, so far, collective organisations have been in the media and in front of the public when negative stories have been reported, about affairs, and have to a large extent lost their legitimacy. Probably one of the key reasons for this is the unequal treatment of membership when it comes to decision-making in these collective organisations and when it comes to the sharing of funds on the basis of collected fees and the associated disproportionate spending on the operation of collective organisations, then on various suspicious or, say, non-economic investments, which has even resulted in individual criminal complaints. It has even been heard that they are kidnapped collective organisations that operate only for a narrow circle of leadership and some privileged people. Several times it has been pointed out that operating costs are disproportionate and, of course, it is also one of the objectives of this Act to lay down the conditions to be framed for reasonably sound investment and consumption and also to be properly documented, in accordance with all good governance rules. Among other things, the law also provides that members of the Statute must be competent to determine the maximum permitted percentage of operating costs. In the past, it has been possible that one of the major collective organisations has spent more than 37% of the collected fees on its existence, on its operation. However, she did not have any regular employees and then transferred millions of these 37% of them to another private company or company that then operated on this money further. Of course, it is also crucial that there are no more such anomalies as they have been before, and this will, of course, prevent for example, 150 so-called regular members from being privileged to have 20 votes, and on the other hand, this same collective organization would have 5,000 "unscrupulous members", of which each would have only one vote. This is also something that, of course, will not be possible under the new law when it is enforced. Nor will it be possible, since all members will determine how the funds will be spent, for what purposes, say, for the meetings, about 200 000 euros per year will be spent on a collective organisation that chooses from 8 to 15 million, which, compared to an important state firm that turns three billion a year and uses only 40,000 for meetings, of course, represents a very alarming data. The law is therefore based on the principle of transparency and the involvement of all members in deciding on the very important matters that these collective organisations face. So the governance structure of the collective organisation will be more transparent, in line with the new law, and those who decide or the administration will be responsible for their work. It will also ensure the right of all members to participate in the Assembly in the decision-making and adoption of the basic documents and questions of the organisation. Even so, the law provides for the possibility for a minority of members to convene a meeting to appoint a special auditor to review the management of individual transactions and for individual rightholders to have access to documents and data from a collective organisation, which has unfortunately been a problem many times in practice. Detailed rules will also be laid down on the composition of the annual report, how these reports will be adopted. They will have to include specific items that will also have to be separate from the collection of copyright fees, allocated and paid copyright fees and allocated and unpaid copyright fees, unallocated copyright fees, collective organisation costs, business costs of organisations and so on. In particular, an overview of the operating costs of external operators and information technology and legal services will be required. However, what is very important and I have already pointed out at the outset will also ensure more effective control over the functioning of collective organisations and users of works and action in the event of irregularities in the context of legal control and fines in criminal proceedings, in order to follow the principle of proportionality of measures or the escalation of legal coercion. Finally, let me mention that, in particular, in our Group of Members, we welcome the clearer procedures for the design and use of the specific funds that the law will bring. It is hoped that in this context special funds will come to life, both those who will be dedicated to the creators in distress, such is true social funds, like those that will provide long-term forms of savings in the form of pension funds. Of course, the so-called promotion fund is particularly important, which will allow the collective organisation to devote some of its resources to the promotion of young uninhabited authors. Which is also very welcome in view of the fact that it is often possible to hear that quality Slovenian music is insufficient and that, in particular, new Slovenian music is lacking. All I have just listed are reasons or more than justifiable reasons for believing that the law is a solid basis for better work by collective organisations and for greater value and transparency in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor. Get Mrs. Anita Kolesh ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u71	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Collective organisations are key infrastructure in the field of copyright. If the infrastructure is not operational, the copyright is evaluated. The main purpose of copyright is to provide economic incentives for creation. If the creator knows that he will be rewarded for his creativity in terms of exclusive rights that will be respected by third parties, this is definitely a motivation for further creation. And collective organisations in the sense of compulsory collective governance, as we know in Slovenia, and do not change it, when the author of his copyrights himself is not able to manage it at all, can break this motivation, because, above all, through imprudent and cost-effective management, they allow authors to capitalise their works. Why do I think that this marriage that we have before us today is good? Because it regulates or introduces: the openness of collective organisations, the efficiency of the management of these organisations, the transparency of business, the fair tariff for the use of copyright works, the efficiency of collecting and sharing of copyright holders' fees, greater legal certainty. The fact is that the situation in the area of collective governance in Slovenia is poor. There is no trust among key stakeholders. Among authors, rightholders, between users of protected works and not least between countries. Let me stress that the very importance and role of collective organisations in terms of copyright, legal protection does not change in any way. The law merely and merely lays down conditions of operation that will ensure a careful, safe, non-discriminatory and, above all, responsible management. Why is it necessary to ensure transparency of action? In particular, because collective organisations manage the money of third parties, the rules of safe and prudent action are extremely important. As far as the monopoly is concerned, I am not in favour of him, but in this case I believe that the abolition of the monopoly would do more harm than the benefits themselves. It seems extremely positive to me that some collective organisations have made many important and positive moves. In particular, in raising awareness of the importance of intellectual property and the creation of judicial practice. In short, I am convinced that a major step towards improving the situation certainly means the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u73	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. I will respond to only two statements made in this National Assembly now in their views, one being in line with the stakeholders or not in line with the stakeholders. In our position and in the debate that we have had with regard to this law, we have always argued that we have in fact reconciled many things with many stakeholders in the process of adopting or preparing and adopting legislation. However, the fact is that this work was, in Sisyphus's words, because these stakeholders were very opposed to interests, desires and objectives and therefore the requirement of the bill's proposer is therefore impossible, so that all stakeholders could simply simplify themselves and that they could come to some uniform position of this law, of course, and therefore this dilemma can be resolved. However, I would say that actually these interests were very large and we listened to everything, but take it that they are lobbyists or whatever, but we wanted to listen to them, if we heard them, is another question, because this is related to what I have already mentioned, all the interests here simply cannot be taken into account, and not to those interests that have always wanted this law not to be adopted. Because the fact is that many collective organisations are in a state of emergency today. Therefore, I believe that the law itself has made great progress, that it was necessary to resolve it specifically outside the Copyright and Related Rights Act, because all those who have worked in this area over the past years have assured us that, unless we do so, we cannot update the Copyright and Related Rights Act itself. That is why it is obvious that this is non-systematic, completely inappropriate and we believe that this is the only way we can get a good, I hope, even in the practice of a viable law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Here you go, Mr. Cantarutti.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Thank you very much again for all your discussions and also for your work so far in the drafting and adoption of this law. Once again, I would like to point out that we have had a very extensive and honest, in-depth dialogue with all stakeholders, and it is true that the matter is complex, because it is also quite messy in this area, and it is impossible for all to meet. But I think that because of such in-depth and long dialogue we have taken enough time, we have come to one minimum, I can say, consensus between the majority of whom this law touches. We also have a review of who supports this proposal, who is against it, who can quickly find out that most or almost all of them support audiovisual creation, including producers, and directors, as well as playwrights, and so on, and that the greatest opposition is, as we have expected, because I believe that the greatest irregularities in this area are in the field of music. But, as it is said, this proposal is good and yet it regulates and gives rights to those who also belong to these rights of copyright. I would also point out that there were many amendments or perhaps some confusion. Indeed, we are aware of this, but precisely because this area is complex, because we are regulating this and trying different interests – and the pressures were also on you, honourable Members and Members – we have also tried to make it acceptable to the widest range of users in the final phase. That is why we have made so many amendments, confirmed them, or accepted them, even many of the different stakeholders. Once again, I would like to thank the Legal and Legislative Service, which has tried to help us with good intentions, in order to make the law even clearer and somehow towards achieving the objectives that we have set ourselves with this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20 September. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SMC, DeSUS and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the SMC, DeSUS and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 46 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 77 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 79 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 81 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for consumer credit laws. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 20 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Cantarutti, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u77	Presidents, honourable Members, Members, once again welcome! This time on the proposal of a different law, the Consumer Credit Act. So allow me some thought in this introduction to this legislative procedure. You have before you a bill that builds on the current Consumer Credit Act with the rules of the European Consumer Credit Directive, housing contracts. The proposal for a law governs credit contracts in which the consumer acts as a borrower. On 30 June 2016, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. this year, established the text of the law and forwarded it to the National Assembly for admission following a regular procedure. A new law is proposed to regulate consumer credit contracts for real estate and other consumer credit contracts in one place. We believe that we have drawn up a law that will ensure a high level of consumer protection without imposing unnecessary additional burdens on the economy. That seems very important to me. The first draft law was presented to the public in the context of public hearing and took place in the autumn of last year. Two inter-ministerial coordinations were carried out by the Ministry below. With regard to the Consumer Credit Act, the Ministry also organised a public consultation in March, attended by all the major stakeholders affected by this Act. The Ministry has taken into account many comments and proposals received, both by the economy and by independent consumer organisations. The key objectives pursued by the proposal for a law vis-à-vis the applicable law remain the same and are the following. Responsible lending and leasing of consumer credits by means of timely information to the consumer about the characteristics and by means of a careful prior assessment of the consumer's creditworthiness and by providing transparent, stable and more efficient credit markets for real estate with adequate control over credit providers and credit intermediaries. A credit agreement for real estate is being redefined, extending the scope of the application of European rules and ensuring higher consumer protection. What are the main solutions to the proposed law? The granting of consumer credit will only be possible if the creditworthiness assessment shows that the credit agreement obligations are likely to be met. A new category of so-called general information is introduced to consumers and an adapted standard form for prior information on the specific features of the credit is introduced. The consumer's right to convert a foreign currency loan into a domestic currency is proposed. A mandatory valuation of real estate shall be introduced. The obligation to obtain authorisation for credit intermediaries providing consumer credits for real estate is laid down. A so-called passport is established for the cross-border provision of credit intermediaries providing consumer credits for real estate. Furthermore, some shortcomings of the current consumer credit regime are addressed. We believe that by means of a proposal for a law, we will ensure effective control of the consumer credit market by means of new, more stringent measures in the event of detected infringements that can be imposed in the context of legal supervision and higher fines in the criminal procedure. In the government, we expect the proposed legal solution, i.e. the proposed legislation, to increase consumer confidence and enable them to make decisions more easily and thus encourage the functioning of consumer credit. We know that public private consumption is one of the important macroeconomic factors that, of course, also affect the growth and stability of each economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Daniel Krivec will postpone the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! A proposal for a consumer credit law, supplemented by the rules of the European Consumer Credit Directive, which are secured by mortgage or other real rights or are intended to purchase residential property, was put into public consultation. The key objectives pursued by the proposal for a law do not change compared to the law in force. The law still regulates and lays down procedures for responsible lending and borrowing in a way that ensures quality consumer information and creates a high level of protection for consumers' economic and legal interests. Newly, the law deals with, inter alia, the minimum professional competence of creditors and credit intermediaries, property valuation, foreign currency loans and late payment and enforcement measures. Credit intermediaries are also subject to a new mandatory authorisation and professional liability insurance, and cross-border provision of housing credit services is subject to new arrangements. Some areas already regulated by the applicable law are only being upgraded, such as stricter regulation of consumer creditworthiness assessment. For the supervision of credit institutions and credit institutions when providing consumer credits, the Bank of Slovenia is responsible, the information officer shall supervise in accordance with the rules on the collection and processing of personal data. The bill introduces new conditions for the granting and transmission of consumer credits for real estate. In order to improve consumer protection, consumer credits for real estate will only be granted to the following groups of entities: A — credit institutions with a licence, non-bank financial institutions with a permit where the exclusive or major activity is the provision of financial leasing services and where the bank has a minimum of 20 % of the voting rights or a minimum of 20 % of the capital share, or whose balance sheet amount is at least EUR 50 million, financial leasing companies and some other entities that do not need authorisation, such as employers who grant credit to their employees free of interest or at lower effective rates than credit institutions. The intermediaries of these entities will also have to obtain a special permit to transfer consumer credits for real estate. In this regard, the Bank of Slovenia will be responsible, in addition to the current supervisory tasks, for the implementation of permits to financial leasing companies for the granting of consumer real estate credits, the granting of licences to consumer real estate credit intermediaries and the supervision of financial leasing companies and their intermediaries in relation to consumer real estate credits. In addition, the Bank of Slovenia will have the power to impose control measures and sanctions on supervised entities. It will act as a competent authority in relation to cross-border transfers of consumer credits for real estate. Under the Consumer Credit Act, there is a general rule that consumer credit providers can withdraw from the consumer credit claim only to entities that can also act as consumer credit providers. This rule does not apply to credit institutions which may waive such claims from consumer credit to any third party. With regard to entities which may not act as consumer credit providers, the proposal limits the scope of eligible third parties to entities with a special purpose in securitisation, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, other companies for the Management of Bad Claims of Banks. These entities must also meet all legal requirements. The European Central Bank emphasises that, in relation to the proposed transfers of new tasks to a Member State, it is necessary to assess whether this is contrary to the prohibition on financial financing provided for in Article 123 of the Treaty. The European Central Bank has drawn up the guidelines set out in the individual paragraphs. The European Central Bank considers that the new tasks of Banka Slovenije relating to the granting of licences to financial leasing companies offering financial immovable property services to consumers and consumer credit intermediaries for real estate and the supervision of those companies for financial leasing and their intermediaries and certain buyers of claims from consumer credits to which entities authorised to provide banking or financial services may be regarded as central banking tasks, on the basis of which the existing functions of Banka Slovenije can be considered complementary to those of Banka Slovenije in relation to banking supervision also in the area of consumer credits. In addition, it may be considered that this addition is also demonstrated by the fact that supervised entities will contribute to the costs incurred by Banka Slovenije in carrying out the new supervisory tasks, which will also have a positive impact on its financial capacity to assume those tasks. However, the draft law does not contain provisions explaining the instruments and powers that the Bank of Slovenia needs in order to effectively monitor the compliance of certain buyers with consumer credit claims. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this draft law in the first reading because it brings many good solutions to consumer credits or consumer protection when borrowing these loans.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Government, allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Consumer Credit Act. We will, of course, support the bill. The law transposes into the Slovenian legal order a directive whose key objective is to ensure a high level of protection for consumers' economic and legal interests. Financial, economic or general, as they might call it, the crisis has shown that irresponsible behaviour of market participants undermines the foundations of the financial system, which can and also leads to severe social and economic consequences. Although the financial crisis has started in America, specifically in the US mortgage market, consumer debt for real estate has also increased in many European Union countries, and consequently, unfortunately, the number of property seized has also increased. The bill seeks to make credits responsible by informing all consumers of the characteristics of credit in a timely manner and, on the other hand, by seeking to secure responsible credit for the purchase of property in particular. The shortcomings identified by the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia as well as the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, which are: misleading advertising of the credit rate, numerous abuses, inappropriate notification of various changes, and in particular the horrifying cases of sick leave, I allow myself to say, credit. In this aggressive business practice, unfortunately, all too often we run into cases where the creditor charges compensation, disputed with any healthy farmer or intellectual intelligence and logic that leads to severe personal hardships and crises. The consumer will then have to be alerted to the potential risks posed by individual types of real estate loans. However, the borrower will have to inform the consumer of changes in the exchange rate on a regular basis when the change results in an increase in the total amount of the loan by more than 10 %. This rate could be lower, but still. At the same time, it will also have to inform it of the right to convert into domestic currency and any other mechanisms to limit currency risk. The new Directive also entails the obligation of the creditor to peer into the personal dataset for the purpose of assessing the consumer’s creditworthiness and the obligation to keep the documentation procedure on the assessment of its creditworthiness. The draft law also redefines the obligation to ensure the appropriate level of knowledge and competence of the creditor and credit intermediaries and the management of the credit intermediary in the case of transactions relating to a credit agreement for real estate. The training or education programme will be established by the Association of Banks for Programme Operators in agreement with the Bank of Slovenia. Let me get this straight. In the Desus Group, the objectives pursued by the proposal for a law are, in particular, to protect people, an individual, as we like to call a small person, from bereavement and extortion of such or other psychiatrists – for these reasons, we support and give him, of course, complete support. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Magistrate Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The main purpose of the bill, which begins today's hearing in the National Assembly, is the European harmonised regulation of lending legislation, more concrete consumer insurance and obligations for credit institutions to verify the creditworthiness of applicants for credit. The provisions of the proposal constitute the transposition of European consumer credit directives and define more precisely the credit institutions of lenders, clearly categorising who and under what conditions can credit the population. The proposal also contains the conditions of competence to be met by the credit institution staff. We have taken a critical approach to the proposal in our first report to the law, as we note that in European legislation, which we are obliged to incorporate into national legislation, there is often a mentality that is solely responsible for the inability to repay credit to the borrower. Of course, lending is a business like any other and, of course, the only right thing to do is to get the credits back. But the responsibility for the loan is also vested in the lender. This law also lays down the mandatory assessment of creditworthiness, which means a stricter verification of the applicant’s financial performance for credit and also an insight into the applicant’s expenditure. Since this is an important intervention in the privacy and dignity of people, the Social Democrats will be very attentive to these provisions in future and will try to complement them so that they will be proportionate to their privacy. Therefore, as a very important part of the law, the Social Democrats assess the provisions protecting the consumer or the borrower. They refer to the understandable and unfailing advertising of credit offers, to the mandatory seven-day deadline for consideration of credit offers, to the prohibition of linking credit offers with other services, to the possibility of converting credits into foreign currency and to the prohibition on lenders to waive their claims to any other legal person as has been permitted so far. This significantly expands the consumer protection circle. Third, however, a very important set of solutions concerns the regulation of the so-called black market of credits. This has evolved due to the limited credit capacity of people, and thus some take advantage of the hardship of those who have been known to be creditless. Offering credit with bribes and virtually impossible repayment conditions, where interest and penalties often exceed the principal’s value, this can be only a few hundred euros. We probably all agree here that there are discards of actions that need to be more severely sanctioned and driven out of the market by such tenderers. This bill therefore provides for stricter conditions for lenders and substantially higher penalties. Among other things, it prevents the chaining of businesses. However, we must point out that tightening the lending conditions will not solve one of the fundamental problems, which is the fact that some credit markets are completely closed. This is not the subject of regulation of this law, but the Social Democrats point out that we will have to do much more in this area. We believe that it is essential that we develop what we call social banking and lending. This is seen as an important part of the implementation of that part of the coalition agreement that talks about social entrepreneurship and society. An important part of this type of lending in Europe is carried out by cooperative banks, which we once knew in our country, and by adopting the latest version of the Banking Act Slovenia uncritically summarized the arrangements that banks undertake to organise in the form of a share company. This is an area that we need to pay more attention to in the future in order to facilitate access to capital for the weak. The experience in social entrepreneurship and ethical banking shows that, despite their small capital power in these forms, these people regularly return the borrowed money. Social Democrats will support the proposal for a consumer credit law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposal for a new Consumer Credit Act at least partially brings the necessary regulation to an area where consumers are often in a very unequal situation and where stricter regulation and consumer protection are so important. In the United Left, we will not oppose further consideration of the Consumer Credit Act, even though the Government has not included all the solutions that could or should be included. In other words, she gave in to the banking and financial lobby. The core of the bill is the transposition of the European Directive, in which the Government or the Ministry decided to minimum harmonisation, but it did not do enough to take into account the specific context we have in Slovenia. While household debt in Slovenia is comparable in relation to other European countries among the lowest, the financial debt of Slovenian households amounts to about half of the average debt in the European Union. It is also a relatively low share of poor loans, although it is understandable that it has increased in recent years. The problem with consumer credits is their inaccessibility rather than excessive debt and accumulated debt that households could not repay. From this point of view, provisions on the tightening of creditworthiness checks are not the most important part of the law, in general, because there is a need to ask about the broader socio-economic causes of the rise in personal bankruptcy mentioned in the law's explanation. However, the practices of deception and deception and other unfair approaches used by banks and other lenders continue to flourish, including those actually in the gray zone and should not even have the right to offer credits, not to mention black-border lending. Therefore, stricter regulation as to who the lender might be makes sense, but the government has decided to make too open a solution despite the different proposal it had on the table. Consumer credits should only be offered by credit institutions that meet certain criteria. Banks or lenders still fail to inform consumers about the total cost of credit and still offer them risk credits instead of offering them fixed-rate loans. More specifically, it's not just bad information, it's deception and even fraud. Often, banks offer or require the purchase of package services, of course, quite unjustifiable. The purpose of such hiding places is for the bank to sell as many expensive additional products as possible to the consumer, without it being interested in whether they are at all justified for the consumer. It is only advertising about various favourable loans that often borders on fraud. Last but not least, there have been many cases in the past years, starting with risked loans in Swiss francs. In this way, confidence in credit providers is further hampered, and consumers in a very complex dependency situation are particularly affected. On average, in Slovenia, about 8.5% of households with a housing loan ratio of more than 40% and the largest among those in the lowest income groups, especially in households with unemployed and retired loan holders, are on average more than 40%. While mortgage loans are a key part of the transposition of the European Directive, where Slovenian households are still in debt to a lesser extent than otherwise. Buying a roof over the head with a loan is very expensive and risky, while mortgage loans for young people are mostly a pious desire. With such a high level of overreach, especially among young people as we have in our country, it is practically impossible to respond to the housing problem in this way. At the same time, alternative approaches, housing cooperatives, public housing funds, and so on, are re-emerged and without the real support of the country. And these are the real problems that need to be solved. In addition, the law introduces a specific regulation of information to consumers adapted to housing credit and must be provided free of charge and a new category of so-called anti-payment advisory services. Such a solution is highly controversial, since it will further select consumers in terms of financial capacity, and in particular will enable banks to generate profits from something that they should in any case ensure by common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Mr. Secretary of State! We have before us in the context of the general debate in the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Consumer Credits. By this law, Slovenia fulfils its obligations to transpose the European Directive into its internal legal order. Unfortunately, with the obligation to transpose European secondary legislation into our legal order, we are late again, since in this case the directive should be transposed by 21 March of this year. So we're exactly six months late. All right, let's go to the content. The proposal for a consumer credit law is welcome in terms of transparency, since within the Slovenian legal order it regulates credit contracts in one place both for ordinary consumer credit contracts and for real estate credit contracts. Christian Democrats in the proposal see as meaningful some of the provisions introduced into the law in order to increase consumer information. The proposal in this area introduces in our regulation a standard European form which the creditor gives to the consumer when he submits a binding offer. The consumer must also be informed of the possible consequences of default, the right to convert into domestic currency and any other mechanisms to limit currency risk. The consumer must also be alerted to any other risks posed by individual types of real estate loans. Christian Democrats note that the law in regulating real estate loans does not address the important issue of obtaining such loans for larger families that are particularly exposed in this area. These are often in great distress when, at high expenditure and often lower incomes, they need a place of adequate size in a short time. The bill also provides for a reasonable provision, inter alia, that the payment of employees to the creditor should not be linked to the number or ratio of credits granted. In the lending process, the law makes a few stricter requirements for assessing creditworthiness. Credits for real estate in accordance with the proposal for a law on the price of creditworthiness are no longer sufficient only to obtain information from the consumer, but also to look into personal data sets. However, the assessment of creditworthiness in real estate credits should be based not only on consumer income data but also on its expenditure data, as proposed by the law. While it is understandable measures that seek to be more prudent and reliable in lending real estate, at the time of consideration of this area, we reiterate that the best guarantee is their private ownership for the more responsible conduct of credit institutions. We need new, good private owners. As long as we maintain the state ownership of banks, harmonisation of legislation with European directives and the introduction of good marriage solutions will not bring about the key and fundamental changes we urgently need in Slovenia in this area. The New Slovenia Group will not oppose the proposal for a consumer credit law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you. A respected secretary with a co-worker, a colleague and a colleague! Position of the Modern Centre Party on the Proposal for a Consumer Credit Act. The bill before us complements the applicable Consumer Credit Act with the rules of the European Consumer Credit Directive. Consumer law has been subject to intensive harmonisation of national legislation since the mid-1970s with the aim of ensuring the best possible functioning of the European Union single market. Slovenian consumer law began to emerge in 1998 and the legislator made consumer credit law more extensive and systematic in 2000 by adopting the Consumer Credit Act. The law was in force until the new law of 2010. The European Commission has identified a number of problems with irresponsible lending and borrowing of credit intermediaries and not just credit institutions. Problems have been detected in connection with loans in foreign currency. Consumers took advantage of the interest rate offered and were not adequately aware of the risk or understanding of such credits. The problem is also well known in Slovenia. The basic objectives of the proposal for a consumer credit law implementing a directive addressing the problems described are: responsible lending and borrowing of loans for the purchase of residential property through timely information to the consumer on the characteristics of the credit and its financial and legal consequences and through careful, prior assessments of the creditworthiness of the consumer; the creation of high and comparable levels of protection of the economic and legal interests of consumers in the internal market through measures to prevent consumer risk exposure at all stages of the duration of the credit contract; the provision of transparent and stable credit markets for housing with adequate supervision over credit providers and credit intermediaries; and, consequently, the creation of conditions that prevent distortion of competition between credit providers and consequently promote the effective functioning of the internal market; the regulation of permits and the supervision of credit providers and credit intermediaries. The financial crisis has shown that the irresponsible behaviour of market participants can undermine the foundations of the financial system. Many consumers have also lost confidence in the financial sector. Since in the SMC Group we believe that the law correctly addresses mistakes from the past, we will also support the proposal for a consumer credit law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First of all, Mr. Joseph Horvat, follow the mag. Dusan Verbich and Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you again for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The debate on this law seems extremely important to me. I went to look at the directive itself, which is mentioned here by the law and actually implements it. In fact, more content is essential in the directive itself. It is good that in New Slovenia we welcome the protection of the consumer in particular. The consumer is probably mentioned in this Directive about 200 times, and this seems fine. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis has unfortunately shown that irresponsible behaviour of market participants can undermine the foundations of the financial system, which can lead to a lack of confidence in all stakeholders, in particular consumers, and potentially severe social and economic consequences. Many consumers have lost confidence in the financial sector and borrowers are finding loans increasingly difficult to afford. As a result, the number of failures to meet payment obligations and forced sales has increased dramatically. Therefore, the G20 Group has commissioned the Financial Stability Committee to set out principles on reliable standards for borrowing loans in respect of residential property. While some of the biggest problems related to the financial crisis have arisen outside the European Union, consumers in the European Union have a significant level of debt, much of which is collected in loans related to housing. It is therefore appropriate to ensure that the Union's regulatory framework in this area is stable and consistent with international principles and that it correctly uses a number of available instruments, which may include the relationship between credit and property value, credit and income, debt and income or similar relationships, minimum levels under which no credit would be considered acceptable, or other alternative measures for cases where the risks in question would be greater or, where appropriate, for consumers to avoid overindebted households. A number of problems have been identified in mortgage markets in the European Union with regard to irresponsible lending and borrowing and the potential for irresponsible behaviour of market participants, including credit intermediaries and non-credit institutions. Some of the problems related to loans denominated in foreign currency that consumers had leased in the currency concerned in order to make use of the loan rate offered, but were not properly informed of the risk associated with the exchange rate and did not properly understand it. This problem is acute and we know it very well in Slovenia. The reasons for these problems are market failures and regulatory inefficiency, as well as other factors such as the general economic situation and the low level of financial literacy. Other problems include credit intermediary systems and non-credit institutions offering housing loans, namely, those systems are ineffective, non-coordinated or non-existent. The problems identified may have significant macroeconomic effects of spillovers, cause harm to consumers, pose economic or legal obstacles to cross-border activities and create uneven competitive conditions between actors. I have only listed a few problems arising from the granting or taking of consumer credits, the granting or taking of loans for residential property. We in New Slovenia are assessing, now in the first reading of this consumer credit law, that this law, which properly implements the European Directive, is an appropriate response or an appropriate tool to avoid any recurrence of abuses, errors and, of course, no new financial crisis in the European Union or in the global world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Dušan Verbich, prepare for Mr. Janko Weber and Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State with his team, nice greeting! I must admit that I was pleased to hear all these presentations by the parliamentary groups, especially for the reason that very clear messages were that it was practically not contrary to this law. I think there is a need for more of this kind in this national assembly, regardless of the different content of the laws. Also, in the opening presentation, something has already been said about the very contents of this law, and in some parts I will go a little bit further, because I think it is very important. My basic question is what this law regulates. The fact is – what has already been said, and I think it is right – that we will also meet many times today and further with these institutes, which means that this law regulates consumer credit contracts where the borrower is the consumer taking credit. In the law itself, there are two conditions for taking this credit under, for the first time, certain conditions and, for the second time, for a clear purpose. That means, cumulative. And that's exactly what this marriage defines. The legal basis for this law, as already stated by the presentations, including the Secretary of State, are certainly three directives. I have no intention of going into the content of these Directives. It is particularly important to me personally, and I will make a few words to the last directive, according to the 2014 code 17, which speaks or regulates consumer credit contracts for residential property. If I am still in the law itself, in the general part of this law I very much welcome that part or that article, which sets out in very detail and also quantitatively the meaning of the terms used in this law. This is to say hello because this law is intended for consumers. And if I'm not offensive and I don't have to be offensive to me, it is necessary to know that the ordinary consumer is not a real learner. It is therefore good that the law of this matter gives a very detailed and comprehensible indication of the individual institutions involved. He himself would have touched only point 8 in explaining these meanings of terms, where, as it is said, a credit agreement for real estate. Why? In particular, because of the need to give particular attention to the regulation in this legal definition, it is necessary to pay particular attention in particular to the better protection of consumers involved in such legal matters. The experience of past years, that I will not speak any further back, I think that many citizens or citizens have had bitter experience. This shall not, as a rule, happen again. If I am still a little general, the fact is, for all of us, including citizens and citizens, something is quite clear. Any good, any item that is borrowed or borrowed, shall be returned after a certain period of time. This also applies to money as a particular form of the item of specific value, and the fact is that money is generally linked to the conclusion of so-called legal transactions known as credit or credit contracts. We also have cases where no legal form has been concluded, but it is known that there is such a high degree of trust between the money giver and the money giver, that it is simply not necessary to conclude legal transactions precisely to protect the legal security of the money giver. Here I have to touch the specifics in the Republic of Slovenia for the last 20 years, because some individuals and groups have literally caused a major problem in our country when they in the past borrowed money from state-owned banks or those banks that were privately owned, but were supported by a political authority or an executive branch of government years ago. Unfortunately, it has happened and it is still present that individuals or groups simply have not returned a certain amount. We know that these amounts are huge, we know them as a so-called bank hole, which we can also say very loudly that they are groups or individuals who have taken advantage of a set of circumstances, especially those related to personal and political knowledge, inadequacy of legislation, unhurry of enforcement, in which case law enforcement authorities, as well as the courts. I did not make this comparison by accident, because today we are talking about consumer credits and regardless of the fact that these consumer credits are primarily the subject of general consumption or those so-called real estate loans, but certainly represent substantially smaller amounts compared to those amounts obtained unlawfully through the so-called bank hole. I mention this mainly because this consumer credit law makes a very detailed record of the protection of creditors. This is what at least I personally miss, weaknesses in the past in particular areas in the creditor's relationship: the debtor of money. If I go back to the law. The credit agreement for real estate under this law represents practically the following or two forms. In particular, this claim is secured by a lien right of real estate in accordance with the Real Law. I think that this is a general matter, with which many of us have already met in practice, as well as another form which aims to acquire or maintain property rights on existing or planned real estate. The fact is, it's nothing new. This Directive is generally without prejudice to some or no new products or items on the market, and it is essential that this Directive, in particular with 2014/17, is genuinely ensured by the implementation into our legal order of a significantly higher level of consumer safety which will meet these processes. Here I would mention that we simply have to remind ourselves and appeal to the proposer of this law that even when implementing such directives, they take into account or have before them bad practices from 10 years ago that we know that these bad practices with these consumer credits are intended for real estate, where they have been most affected in the northeast of the country of Slovenia. I would very much appeal that this law actually, even from 10 years ago, provides higher levels of consumer protection protection protection, as this directive, which I have mentioned, allows national legislation to place additional safeguards in its legal order. As far as real estate contracts are concerned, we know that they are simply two forms: one is when someone decides to take this consumer credit for the purchase of real estate as some form of security or capital, and the other is that group, and usually this is the younger generation where they want to ensure their own existence with such a legal business. It's like buying a real estate or an apartment. It is precisely because of these or, in particular, these that it is right for the lawmaker to have all those additional possibilities to prevent abuses in these procedures. For even if the law is very well prepared, we are all aware that there are many things involved in the process of approving these procedures. Here I would like to touch another matter, why I am also thinking or discussing it. Mainly because of the fact that so far we are used, on the other hand, to a contractual relationship, an institution we know under the name of a bank. The fact is that the bank, whatever it is that works, speaking of the Slovenian space, has a legal status; as far as the operation itself and the conditions under which it takes place on the market are concerned. I think that, in principle, there should not be a problem with this law or with this relationship of relations. However, I am more afraid that this law creates new entities that come in these processes, which have not been so used in recent years, and the fact is that these entities need to gain a certain status; what has also been presented in the presentation. These are entities we know as credit intermediaries and lenders. I'd like to pay this particular attention here. Let's not get mixed up in the fact that it's always just a bank. Here are the new entities that will have to go through a certain procedure, but we can already ask ourselves why an entity can only have a three-year licence and will have to extend it in relation to a bank that has a permanent licence in some direction and is constantly under scrutiny. Therefore, the drafter or the distinguished Secretary of State would request that a few words be touched in the debate itself in explanation, which are those persons defined in Article 30, paragraph 2, of the Act. Why am I mentioning this in particular? In particular, because we must not forget that not only do we want to protect the consumer more by this law, but we must not repeat events that are in some way the remains of some legal transactions from the past are still present in Ljubljana and throughout Slovenia. What do I mean? Some of us recall that credit intermediaries and lenders also, through consumer credits, have been largely citing, clearly, in the open market, completely legal, citizens, consumers, that the amounts granted from these legal transactions have been referring to investment firms or any other registered companies that have built so-called real estates on the market. Unfortunately, we know that a number of citizens have lost their savings from these transactions. He also had to repay a loan intended to be completely different. The fact is that it has been played and these same companies and companies have shut down their companies with bankruptcy and forced settlement in these processes on the market after obtaining certain amounts. I therefore believe that we must pay particular attention to this kind of bad practice. To conclude, I would only ask the law's proponents to mention why recommendations, opinions, positions of stakeholders such as the Slovenian Consumers' Association and the Slovenian Banks Association have not been taken into account to a greater extent in the preparation of this law. It would not be concrete, since this is likely to be an option further, but I would like to conclude with my own support that this bill is practically launched into the next legislative procedure, because I think it is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor, followed by Mrs Andreja Potočnik and Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. I think that this law is a fine example of how superficially, if I take this term as a starting point, we represent the financial situation in the Republic of Slovenia. We have often heard that Slovenia is extremely in charge of saving, reducing costs and so on. However, if we look at the information provided in the explanatory memorandum to this law, I wonder if we need this law at all. Indeed, the population in the European Union is indebted to 107% of the annual income available. So, more than they earn throughout the year, they are in charge of the European Union. If we look at data for Slovenia, the population in Slovenia owes only 54% of the annual income available. There is no reason, therefore, that we should simply, again blindly pass on a directive, a decision that they obviously had to make within the European Union because they allowed excessive indebtedness to the population. Therefore, I say that Slovenia is financially more stable all the time than it is trying to represent and that we do not always present this enough in negotiations with the European Commission, nor with the International Finance Fund, the European Central Bank or in foreign financial markets, where we are borrowing credits and trying to reduce public debt. So, the important difference is, in Slovenia, the population is half less indebted than in other countries of the European Union. If we add to this the fact that we are the Slovenians of one of the poorest nations, I think we can talk about the amount of 18 billion that Slovenians have in banks; that is, banks, because they are saving, have very quality money. Here again, the question arises to me, all that is happening and when we receive a commission from the European Commission, that if we are to remedy our banking system, our economy, we must sell everything. I get it! Someone who knows the situation in his country, the substantially more indebted banks, the much more indebted households, wants to get to the banks and the role of households that are extremely quality. This is something I would like to point out in particular, and in particular, the question really arises to me whether we need this law in Slovenia and whether it would not be wiser to reject this law and report it to the European Commission, see if you have prepared a law to protect households from overindebtedness, but in Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia data show that this is not the case. The only problem to be detected is actual debt in foreign currency. Thus, in my view, this law could be written down to limit borrowing only when it comes to borrowing in a foreign currency. This is the so-called Swiss francs, which have also done a lot of damage to households. Here I see the only reason for, say, adopting such a law in Slovenia. Only in this part. So when we talk about borrowing foreign loans, it makes sense that the bank that grants such a loan also checks not only the borrower's income side, but also its expenditure side, or how much it actually has left to survive and repay, say, a new obligation. This is particularly important to me because if we point out the fact that it is an investment and when we look at this quarter and find that 2.7% of gross domestic product growth is related to exports and household consumption and that we are recording significantly reduced investments in construction buildings, I fear that this law could cause too much restrictions on the granting of credits for purchases, such as real estate, as a result of a fall in economic growth, and again, how we will close our budget, how we will manage our situation, because we have blindly transposed some law from Europe to Slovenia. So the impact on economic growth will also have to be examined here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor, followed by Mr Daniel Krivec and Mr Tomaž Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In government material, we can read that with the new Consumer Credit Law proposal, we are pursuing three objectives in particular. The first objective is responsible for lending and borrowing, the second objective is to create a high and comparable level of economic and legal interest and the third objective is to provide transparent and stable credit markets. Therefore, by this law, we want in particular to reduce consumer exposure to risks, which means that it is better to protect the consumer in lending itself. Allow me to walk through the actual situation on the market that currently exists in Slovenia with loans. Mr Weber, our previous colleague, has already told us something. According to the Bank of Slovenia report on financial stability covering data from the beginning of May 2015, the indebtedness of Slovenian households is half lower than that of other European Union countries. For half! The financial liabilities of Slovenian households represent 33% of GDP and 54% of the annual income available. Europe – an average of 107%; more is said. As a result, households in Slovenia had EUR 8.51 billion borrowed from Slovenian banks at the end of June. It is also true that the growth of credits during the crisis period has been severely slowed and even negative for normal consumer credits. The annual growth rate of real estate loans was thus at least 0,8 % at the end of 2014 in the last decade. On the other hand, households in the euro area as a whole have on average more than 40% of their assets in roles, in Slovenia. Thus, in Slovenia we find that saving is certainly a value. So these numbers tell us that we need to be encouraged, and we have the opportunity to encourage household consumption, while also allowing them affordable credit. I therefore absolutely believe that it is necessary to have better legislation that enables MGRT to be safe because we need to be aware that we have both a banking and a non-banking sector in Slovenia and that consumer safety needs to be ensured in both segments. However, we must not forget that borrowing credit should not become more complicated or even more expensive. Therefore, some experts warn us that borrowing credits for consumers will be more expensive because, for example, if the credit is secured by real estate, mortgage, it will be required to value by international standards. It is necessary to consider taking into account the general market value rather than actually burdening the consumer with the valuer. It is also necessary to consider the definition of foreign currency and the proportionality of provisions that touch, for example, the limit on the transaction account.I think we all agree that the amount of housing credit is not comparable to the amount of the limit on the transaction account and that it would be disproportionate to apply exactly the same standards. I believe that the smaller correction law will allow us to rent credits safely in the future and will also be available to borrowers with an appropriate credit rating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you, too. We have some cancellations from the debaters, so we will continue with Mr Ivan Škodnik. I give you my word, it's your turn, please, Mr. Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members! I will support the proposal for a consumer credit law today, and I will present my thoughts on this law in the debate. The financial sector has recently been the cause of a number of inconveniences felt by almost every one of us. There are still visible consequences for all those who have lost their jobs or businesses with which they have maintained their families. We have already done something in this area, but not enough to save all those lost years of young people and workers and workers in failed Slovenian companies. We have already opened some aspects of the banking sector in the National Assembly through a parliamentary inquiry where we were surprised by the conduct of this important sector for all of us. We have before us a proposal for a law that by further regulation interferes with the consumer-bank relationship in order to protect weaker customers by imposing new commitments on the lender. The proposal for a law is addressed as if, in a contractual relationship, it is the power to regulate every detail in such a way that there is no possibility of abuse or other more ethically than legally contested acts. I believe that the bill is going in the right direction and that the objectives already stated by my colleagues are well set. However, something will also have to be done in the area of education on business ethics in banking. The banker is primarily committed to the company and to the profits it creates. On the other hand, he has an ignorant consumer ahead of him who can be seduced and seduced without any greater skill. In this way, the banker will achieve his own interest, moving within the limits of the legal system. On the other hand, this same banker should look after the consumer and help him choose the best solution that logically cannot be the most profitable for the banker. In the extreme case, the consumer could be referred to a bank where they offer the most favourable consumer credit. On a market such as Slovenia, where we have great competition in the supply of the products under consideration, this will certainly not happen. The law weighs in the right direction, but I still don't see how to solve the confusion of a banker who's in a separate role. Perhaps by introducing the principle of good faith and honesty or additional education. In Germany, the substance of the directive was covered by their basic civil law, which also has integrity and integrity among the basic principles. In the past, the bankers excused their conduct with an excuse, for they all did so, so they saw no issue. Where the standard of a good expert begins and ends, it will be difficult to define because it changes in time and space and depending on the situation. Let me mention some of the novelty of the consumer protection bill: providing prior information to the consumer on credit and warning of risks; advisory services as a personal recommendation to the consumer; careful assessment of consumer creditworthiness; valuation of property according to international standards; awareness of consumer's right to convert credit into domestic currency; professional competence of employees and management staff. There is also some news in the area of wage policy and business strategies of credit providers that ensure risk management. It is mandatory to obtain authorisation for credit intermediaries and cross-border transactions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you. The word is given to Mrs Vojka Shergan, and for her as the last discusser, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose and purpose of the proposed law are certainly good. However, in doing so, I would like to point out some things and refer to the predecessor of colleague Potočnikovo, which I would like to point out is that in some ways this law is intended for the consumer and consumer protection. However, I would like to point out that this needs to be done to ensure that the information calculation and then the advisory services themselves do not have any additional costs which consumers will not last bear. Because then somehow this law will not achieve this purpose, because it is necessary, however, to see whether, despite everything, we can somehow get banks with, I don't know, to limit our costs. There's something you need to be aware of. When a bank gives a consumer an application for credit and a bank gives an informational calculation on credit, it somehow does not charge it. However, to the extent that banks will use the advisory service instrument, this will be payable. Why would he pay? Because banks will spend a lot of time and expertise to determine the consumer's creditworthiness. They will check what monthly liabilities they have, how the mortgage will continue to be checked, and the valuation of the mortgage itself will be made. If the banks do all this, then these services will also be charged. In addition, from the moment the customer applies for credit to the time when it receives the grant, that time will increase tremendously. Special attention should be paid to this segment and an instrument should be found not to increase this administrative barrier somehow, especially because, in the past, natural persons were less indebted than has already been warned in the EU. Therefore, it seems to me that in Slovenia the directive should not have a significant impact on the granting of consumer credits in the sense that this lending would be difficult. In addition, I fear that the limit that consumers in Slovenia have in a transaction account will somehow be considered a credit that will affect their creditworthiness at the opening of the transaction account, and in some ways I think that this directive will have to look at whether we will change in some way this view of the limits that are often offered by banks in Slovenia. Of course, it is necessary to protect the consumer on the other hand. For example, Mr Kordish mentioned that a fixed interest rate is a solution to protect the consumer. I'd be here on another side of the alert. The fixed interest rate could also be more expensive credit, because when the eurobor started to fall, the fixed interest rate was more expensive than if the consumer had dedicated itself to the eurobor plus the real interest rate. It's very difficult here to put what's actually real at one point because things are changing. The price of money on the market is changing. I think that too rigorous legislation and too administrative can also be bad for the consumer. So in this second reading, I would particularly like to point out that I would also appeal to the Ministry to examine matters very well again and to try to find solutions that will be acceptable to consumers, because, ultimately, we are going to push those consumers who are more difficult to deal with if we put too many obstacles on them, we will automatically push them into the black market. I don't know what kind of control there is. When they are on the black market, they are much more at risk than if we keep them in banks and institutions that will be authorised by the Bank of Slovenia. I would really like to ask you once again to examine this matter very carefully and find the right solutions before the next consideration of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Shergan. As the last debater, I give the floor to Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are going to talk about credits, which is something that concerns almost all citizens and citizens. Credere, a Latin verb that is said to contain terms such as credit, even hope, has a long history in a Slovenian independent country. As you know, the Consumer Loans Act was passed in 2000. Before that I should mention, when I studied this law somehow, that already the Slovenian Consumers' Union found in 2003 that there was an increase in the lending of money on the Slovenian market at so-called retail interest rates. In the course of the resolution of complaints by complainants concerning loans, it was found that the lenders were usually a limited liability company. In doing so, I should also recall that in those loans there were false clauses on mortgage guarantees for creditors' claims included in contracts to cover up the true nature of the loans. In particular, I would mention everything that has happened in recent years and what we have been able to hear or see in Slovenian media. After years of some abnormal loans, where abnormal interest rates were taken away from many farms in Prekmurje, numerous apartments, houses in Slovenia, mainly in the northeastern part of Slovenia. This was mainly the case for so-called rooms and lease back contracts which were not dealt with by the then consumer credit law, which involved loans where the customer of the lender for a certain purchase, so-called quasi-borrower sold the house and took it back to leasing. Only after the lease was paid would the customer become the owner of the house again, and then the lender reserved ownership rights for the house. That's a lot, so the people who went into the lease back contract paid complete meals and, on the other hand, ownership was not transferred back to this party. So it was a big scam. Many times it was not for consumers or for many lawyers who did not see the right interest rate or did not see that interest rate, they could not calculate the interest rate. There's a lot of things we can say about covert fraud. The last case that we had, where we can also detect some legal voids, was the so-called consumer loans that were linked to Swiss francs, for example, in the last period where the lender was also very poorly explained to a number of borrowers about interest rates, as far as exchange rates are concerned. Here we have also seen, many times in public, that there is still a rule that ignorance of the law harms, so whoever doesn't know who doesn't know who doesn't know himself is essentially guilty. But sometimes it was also a fraud of lenders at that time, and this has to be acknowledged. Banks have made a number of mistakes. Various commercial bankers have offered and deceived many people through their intermediaries. This line, where it's a fraud or where it's about not knowing the law, as I said before, is very thin. So, of course, the Consumer Loans Act in its current form needs to be recast. That is why we will also support this law in the first reading in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are convinced that a number of conditions, i.e. the regulator himself, who will now oversee institutions that can lend consumer credit, are necessary. I think that transparency will also be much greater when you hire a consumer loan. Consumer safety will be much greater and, somehow, in the form of the European Union, will be very similar to regulation and will be very similar to legislation, which is necessary if we know that there are many credits available today in one country, in one enterprise or in another, and so on. Here is what needs to be stressed that people know that marriage is necessary to stand on their side. Most of the time, however, those vulnerable groups that have very limited resources, which most often hire credits, also have poor ratings in banks and so on, so I see them mainly in this novel that they will get a few more rights, a few more transparency, and a few more opportunities are not to fall into chains of different, as I said earlier, parts that were different lenders of these consumer loans and are, in many cases, misleading unknown people, many citizens because of their profits. We have to admit that we're not just talking about strangers. I also have some colleagues who are possessed, who have at least a high education, some are even lawyers and have overlooked many times. So the lawyer, he's usually a lawyer, but he doesn't have the knowledge of economics, finance or banking, and sometimes the lawyer can't calculate what a fundamental interest rate limit is, what's effective and so on. Any amendment to this law is necessary. So the instruments are moving forward. Many consumer loans are being stepped up under a number of conditions. They're always remodeling. Today we know a whole range of specialised consumer credits. That's why this law is necessary. Finally, let me mention only what seems important to me, as the European Central Bank has also pointed out, and it is an important component of this law. In this regard, the Bank of Slovenia will become responsible, in addition to current supervisory tasks, or primarily for the responsibility of the regulatory authority to grant permits to financial leasing companies for the granting of consumer credits for real estate, the granting of licences to consumer credit intermediaries for real estate, the supervision of financial leasing companies and their intermediaries in relation to consumer credits for real estate. In addition, the Bank of Slovenia will have the power to impose control and sanction measures on supervised entities. That's what I think is extremely important. It will act as a competent authority with regard to cross-border transfers of consumer credits, which I have previously explained and I think is important. It is also important that it act as a single point of contact for cooperation between the competent authorities of different Member States for the purposes of the Directive. So 2 14/17. It will therefore establish and maintain a public register of financial leasing companies which provides consumer credit for real estate and consumer credit intermediaries. It is therefore also a matter of transparency, who gives permission, so as not to mislead people from vulnerable groups who do not get credit at some basic bank and then resort to a number of institutions that are now lending credits in this story. This seems important to me, especially since we know that in some valuable system of Slovenes and Slovenes there is real estate, we can say, at the top of some valuable system and it is still home. We see different unfortunate stories through the media, where people lose property because they've been misled. Maybe even because of their ignorance. Perhaps because of their negligence, they did not pay back. These stories are multilayered. Finally, at the time of the adoption of this law in Parliament, we will monitor the specific warnings of the European Central Bank, the new tasks of the Bank of Slovenia, which are to authorise financial leasing companies for the granting of consumer credits for real estate, the granting of licences to consumer credit agents for real estate, and the supervision of these companies for the financial leasing and their intermediaries and certain buyers of claims from consumer credits which are to be waived by entities authorised to provide banking or financial services, can therefore be regarded as central banking tasks, on the basis of which it can be considered to complement the existing functions of the Bank of Slovenia in relation to banking supervision also in the area of consumer credits. Finally, the European Central Bank points out that the draft law does not contain provisions explaining the instruments and powers that the Bank of Slovenia needs in order to effectively monitor the compliance of certain recipients of consumer credit claims. The members of the Government, the Secretary of State, know that the European Central Bank has pointed out that this is incomplete in this law. Here I see some of our firm stance to correct these matters, which the European Central Bank has pointed out, during the examination of the law in the National Assembly. As I said at the outset, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, both on my behalf and within the party, we will support this law in the first reading. We don't want to throw pollen under your feet, we want consumers to be protected in the first place, that the law is being amended in this direction, that there are no more extensive acts of excellence than has been the case in the last 15 and 20 years. The final result of these extraordinary acts was the taking away of many properties to the many inhabitants of Slovenia, which is a very tragic story. That is why, once again, I stress, we will support this proposal of the law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Breznik. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. I give the floor to Mr Aleš Cantarutti, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Chairman. We thank you for your support, or at least not to oppose this proposal in the first reading, and at the same time invite you, and I call on you to come together now in the next reading to come up with a real proposal for good solutions in this law, which is important. It is not only a transposition of the European Directive, it must not only be a transposition of the European Directive, but it must go ahead and we must be more ambitious, it must be, or it must go, that we, in fact, contribute to raising culture if you want to, in this area. Yeah, we made mistakes, made mistakes, both by banks and by consumers. But on the other hand, we've heard that Slovenians are relatively conservative and that money goes hard out of our pockets. I think that, because of this, or even the lack of some practice, we have not come and we have not received any more, I will say, a purely personal tragedy in the face of the last financial crisis we have actually received. This does not mean that there have been no mistakes and that we should not learn from mistakes. On the contrary, this law also foresees that we will learn something about what was wrong and that we will, in fact, regulate this area in the way that it has to be regulated. Something was said that we may not have listened enough to the Association of Banks, the Union of Consumers. With both organisations and the other stakeholders, we had quite an in-depth debate, a debate on this subject, including taking into account, as far as possible, their proposals at this point. And this is a balanced proposal that is before you today in the first reading. I believe there will be another addition. Also as regards the costs and consumer protection themselves, so that the bank does not now impose any additional costs, including hidden costs to consumers. We have clearly written down and said that we will try to ensure a high level of consumer protection without imposing unnecessary additional burdens on the economy, i.e. also on banks, which means that it is not acceptable and that we do not agree to any additional costs to be charged to consumers. Because the essence of this proposal is exactly what you've all mentioned, the protection of consumers, so sometimes we say, those negative, bad, evil banks, and I don't mean that, I don't believe that. But we need to set up mechanisms, as well as sometimes protecting consumers from themselves. Here, too, you have found that sometimes consumers lack information that is not always sufficient and even within this law will be required to make information available to consumers, so that they can make a credible, credible decision and that there will be no abuse, both on the one hand and on the other. I think that this proposal is basically good now, but we still have a hard work ahead of us in the legislative process. We are prepared and will listen to all your proposals, as I have already said in the introduction, that the law, to the extent possible in this situation, will be excellent, good and that it will not only be for the transposition of the directive from the European Union, but that we will also respect the legality, as far as we can, of course, of our space, of our market. So much for this introduction. As I say, I am confident that in this case there will be fewer amendments than at the previous point.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1. I guess not. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE SECRET TRADE AND INVESTMENT AGREEMENTS OF TTIP AND CETA. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of six Members and Members, with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci. In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to make a recommendation to the representative of the proposal's representative, Dr Mate T. Vatovac. Here you go, Mr. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you, Vice President! Good-bye, everybody! The individual points of our recommendation regarding the secret trade agreements of TTIP and CETA have, in fact, been very modestly outlined. We wanted to find a common consensus, some minimum proposed by the Government. This is what we have proposed to the Government to protect the interests of Slovenia and its people in particular. It was simply to give the Government, as the National Assembly, some kind of confirmation or rather an incentive to take an active approach in this good month to defending the views it had already adopted and thus to take an active approach to defending the interests of the State and its people. In particular, we wanted more time to decide, we wanted a more active stance in representing positions by representatives of the Government in Brussels and greater transparency, including clarifying the negotiations back, legal clarification on the ICS mechanism and ultimately informing citizens and citizens who must have the right to speak on agreements in the referendum. The recommendation, in its current form following the coalition amendments on the Committee, was fully divorced. With it, the National Assembly would adopt positions that are less ambitious than those already represented by representatives of the Government in the process of adopting the CETA agreement. However, you have confirmed one of the points of the recommendation that the Government at European Union level should represent the view that more or enough time should be provided for the examination and decision on the CETA agreement by the Member States. On Monday, however, Minister Restorationšek said that he had not actually written the agreement. Less than a month before the entry into force of the agreement, there are thousands of 600 pages, and it is not yet harmonised. How should Members decide on such an agreement at all? In the United Left, we have tabled amendments to return this recommendation to our original form. Only in this form does the Government give guidance, and not last but also cover, if I say so, that it gets on the brake by 18 October. In doing so, it would not be lonely, as opposition is gaining ground in many European countries, not only among citizens, but also in governments and parliaments. Two days ago, the membership of Austrian Social Democrats decided on CETI. With a convincing majority of around 90%, however, they refused to support the trade-investment agreement with Canada, as it entails too many risks and too many negative consequences and benefits only for multinational corporations. The temporary entry into force of the agreement is a constant threat to democracy. It is not an exaggeration to say that this is a fraud, as national parliaments will be cut off from decision-making, and the ratification of the agreement will only be a public performance, because Members and Members will not have a real word in the decision-making itself. CETA is virtually no different from the more violent brother TTIP. It is in some ways a pre-premier general, if I may say so, a precedent for so-called new generation agreements that will change the world as we know it – from pension systems, social resources, education and health, natural resources, nutrition and democracy or democratic decision-making as such. So we have to do everything we can before it's too late. However, it will be too late within a month when the EU Council adopts decisions on the CETA agreement. These are issues that are far more important in the long term than anything we have decided in the National Assembly in two years of this mandate. It's not just this time our recommendation. It is that all Members and Members who feel committed to transparency, democracy, the social state and, of course, to a healthy environment ask ourselves who will take responsibility for the consequences of these agreements.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The proposal for a recommendation was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u109	Dear President, my colleague, the Secretary of State is warmly greeted! The Committee on the Economy is at its 20th session. 9. 2016 as a parent working body considered the above-mentioned proposal for a recommendation. In addition to the proposal for a recommendation, an opinion was delivered to the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government. Within the time limit set, the amendments to the Proposal for a Recommendation were tabled by the Joint Left Group to the preamble to paragraphs 3 and 5 of the Proposal for a Recommendation. Proposals for amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD committees were also submitted to the members and members of the Committee. The Committee's proposals for amendments were adopted by the Committee in the debate and are reflected in the report of the Committee. On behalf of the applicant, the Member of the United Left Group, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, provided the introductory explanation, specifically pointing out the unusual information regarding the lack of political will of France and Germany until further negotiations in TTIP. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further explained that the amendments and proposals for amendments to the Committee followed the comments of the services in writing and that the service had no comments to them. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology presented the Government's written opinion, stressing the need for efforts to make the best possible use of the Slovenian economy by the said agreements should they be adopted. A representative of the European Commission, Cecilia Malmström, a member of the Cabinet of Commissioners, Mr Christian Burgsmüller, also took part in the meeting. He stressed the possible economic benefits of those agreements for the Member States and drew attention to the role of the Member States of the European Parliament and of the national parliaments in deciding on their content and adoption. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee, the proposer, the Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament and representatives of the Umanotera, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia and the Union of Consumers of Slovenia drew attention to the possible negative consequences of the agreements under consideration. Not only in the economic field, but also in the field of environment, nutrition, social, labour standards and human health. The opposition to the continuation of the TTIP negotiations and the signing of CETA was also expressed. In accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted parts of the act. In view of the amendments adopted, the text of the completed proposal for an act, which is an integral part of the Committee, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Eva Štravs Podlogar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and I also congratulate her on her appointment to a new post.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Thank you so much for saying that. The Government supports and welcomes efforts to increase transparency and openness in trade policy negotiations. Accordingly, we are trying to be as far as possible available for any communication and discussion on agreements. It was TTIP that encouraged us to negotiate in front of the public, especially in the second part. We organised regular meetings with representatives of both NGOs, consumers, the general public and interested companies. We have also called for greater transparency in Brussels and we still call and we can say that it is now possible on the European Commission's website to obtain a large amount of up-to-date information on negotiations with the United States. There is a lot of talk in the public about whether or not the TTIP negotiations are dead. This is not true once, as no state has yet formally requested the suspension of negotiations and even written support for negotiations by twelve countries has been expressed. It is true, however, that negotiations do not take place the way both sides would like to. The United States is very reserved in its commitments and is often unwilling to withdraw from its initial positions. A major obstacle in the negotiations is also the deadlock in the TPP negotiations, namely negotiations for the Trans-Pacific Partnership between the US and the 12 countries, which together represent 40% of the global economy. The EU wants a much more ambitious agreement than the TTP, but until this agreement is confirmed, the US will not be prepared for higher commitments than in this agreement. Given the US elections and next year in France and Germany, a significant slowdown is expected in the negotiations after the end of 2016 and the future of the negotiations is also questionable on the basis of the outcome of the elections themselves. The fact is that a single country cannot stop the negotiating process, and most countries have expressed their readiness and support for the continuation of the negotiations, so the government considers that regular monitoring of the negotiating processes and in this context the defence of Slovenian positions should continue. However, the decision to support or reject the agreement will be taken at the conclusion of the negotiations, which cannot be announced at this time. However, the situation regarding the CETA agreement is quite different. It is now clear that we have managed to achieve that the agreement will be concluded as an agreement of mixed nature. However, there is a lively debate in the EU on the extent of temporary use. It is envisaged that by 18 October a decision will be taken on the adoption of this Agreement at EU level and the agreement will be signed at the EU-Canada Summit on 27 October. Commissioner Malmström has already announced the preparation of a binding joint declaration to be signed with Canadian Minister Freeland and will include areas where reservations have arisen in the Member States. The statement will cover both ICS, public services and environmental and labour issues. The compromise proposal for a decision on the provisional application of the CETA Agreement was presented for the first time to the Committee on Trade Policy in Brussels last Friday. This is also why the Government has not yet adopted its position on the CETA agreement. At the request of some Member States and among them Slovenia, there is agreement to exclude ICS from provisional use and the discussion is still under way on other areas of mixed competence, such as the provisions of sustainable development, transport and financial services. So much for a little while. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary of State. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! Allow me to brief you on Desus' position on the TTIP and CETA recommendations. Let me begin by stressing that in the Desus Group we support all efforts and efforts for the free movement of labour, services and capital, all in the interest and well-being of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We agree that more or enough time is needed to study and decide on the CETA agreement. This agreement became even more secret than the so-called TTIP, as the negotiations were concluded in 2014 and the public was not aware of the progress of the negotiations. It is therefore necessary to obtain information on the potential effects of the agreement before ratifying the agreement or to prepare such studies, which will be exclusively or mainly linked to Slovenia and to the effects. Unfortunately, the text of the agreement still contains the provisions of the bilateral investment court on which the National Assembly adopted a negative opinion. On the other hand, with regard to public debates and statements by prominent French and German politicians, it appears that TTIP will slowly end up at the historical dump. Perhaps it is right to ask ourselves here whether these agreements are really what we want. In the Desus Group of Members, we are increasingly convinced and are increasingly of this opinion that we do not. The Lisbon Treaty has indeed transferred the common trade policy to the competence of the Commission, but free trade agreements are becoming far more than quota or customs arrangements. They're becoming monstrous both from a substantive and a dimensional point of view, some monsters, some monsters. How can we explain that the opinion of the public, which the decision makers are following so closely, has only been achieved that the ISDS mechanism has withdrawn only to the extent that it has returned to the so-called ICS. Furthermore, the documents disclosed a few months ago by Süddeutsche Zeitung showed that America, or Washington, is threatening to block the import of cars into its market if the European Union does not agree to import more American agricultural products. What agricultural products are or are standards, if you want, contrary to European products, it is known. We also find it unreasonable to try to apply the risk principle, which would allow us to market genetically modified organisms until they are proven to be harmful. The most obvious problems with the agreement are also highlighted by the study of the impact of the so-called TTIP on the Slovenian economy, which foresees that the effects of US trade liberalisation will be small but mostly negative. For example, a similar agreement between Canada, Mexico and the United States, which entered into force before the time of entry into force, has also offered many benefits to the signatories, leading to the relocation of workers in the field of employment and the permanent loss of jobs. The analysis has shown that more than eight hundred thousand jobs have been lost as a result of the agreement. The agreement also led to the widespread destruction of the environment. Let me take my mind off things slowly. The prevailing view is that if these agreements were to be recast only to negotiate quotas and customs, they would be supported because we are aware that exports are the engine of our economic growth and new jobs. But it is also clearly an attempt to reduce food, environmental and labour standards and rights, which we have been working for in Europe and Slovenia for a long time, and for which we can rightly be proud. In the Desus Group, we advocate a social state, and in particular the protection of the most vulnerable target groups, which, by adopting such agreements as these, could be deprived of any opportunity to hear their voice at any time and at any time. However, we will support such recommendations and proposals that will be good for all our citizens and citizens, or will not be with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. Prickle. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u115	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Globalisation and the related international trade agreements have become a constant of debates in recent years, unfortunately not necessarily because the adoption process would run optimally democratically and transparently, but because we have been forced to discuss more positively the negative consequences of these agreements, with the introduction saying that CETA, the younger but older brother of the more problematic TTIP, is now also translated into Slovenian and, in this regard, is much more acceptable for consideration, although far from optimal. Unfortunately, negotiations on both agreements take place more or less in closed circles. We must admit that if these acts are adopted within the most democratic countries of the world, this shows a tendency towards democratic deficit, which can only be overcome by the way that national parliaments play an important role and we participate in the adoption process until the end of the process. We are therefore particularly pleased with the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Group of Social Democrats, which has also been most clearly shown in the answers to the questions raised by Members at this meeting of the National Assembly, when, for example, the Minister for Economic Development and Technology has made clear to a fellow member of the opposition that Slovenia does not support and to specific courts and similar measures or regulations that restrict or reduce the sovereignty of our country. Despite all the concerns and, in particular, the negative information that we have received in the public on the terms of the two agreements, this should not imply that all the agreements and everything related to them are bad. We are living in a global world and, without connection, our small economy could not move forward and develop as necessary. For this reason, the Social Democrats will not agree to pay the agreements to the citizens through the reduction of standards, but we will also insist on the continuation of the process that the sovereignty of our country and our people is determined in the National Assembly and in the manner set by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we have made recommendations to send a clear message to the Government from the National Assembly on the TTIP and CETA agreements, but you have made the recommendations to the coalition members completely deconstruct the content so that I do not say malignment. The content is more conservative and non-ambitious than the positions already represented by the Government in Brussels. The recommendations in such a form do not make sense to accept. Although we have proposed them, we will only vote for them in the event that our amendments, which return the recommendations in a reasonable form, will be adopted. The agreements will be no less secret because the coalition Members changed the title of the recommendation and deleted the adjective'secret' from it. Just yesterday, Greenpeace, through whistleblowers, revealed several chapters of the content of another agreement with the TISA shortcut, about which we had not yet known practically anything. TISA is an agreement on services and brings liberalisation and privatisation in a way that cannot be stopped or restored. Greenpeace was clear, TISA was also threatening the objectives of the Paris Agreement, a key global agreement on environmental change. CETI and TTIP are not free trade agreements, as many misrepresents. They do not remove the tariff barriers but deregulation of the rules to be laid down by the countries themselves. More. They are interfering with the creation and introduction of various regulations and standards, thus eliminating the sovereignty of countries and threatening democracy and the well-being of people. In early September, we were able to read in the media that in two key members of the European Union – Germany and France – there is no political will in governments to continue the TTIP negotiations. Germany's Sigmar Gabriel called the negotiations a de facto failure. The French Minister for Trade, however, said that the French Government would call for the suspension of the TTIP negotiations. Why should the CETA agreement be any better than the TTIP? CETA, which will be provisionally established in a bad month, is essentially a Canadian cousin of TTIP. CETA contains all the problematic provisions that have already been disputed with the TTIP, beginning with the ICS arbitration mechanism, and with regulatory cooperation that will reduce the sovereignty of countries with regard to the adoption of legislation, a negative list of liberalisation, which means that all, except those exceptions, will be affected by labour and consumer rights and so on. At the same time, CETA is also a Trojan horse for TTIP, as US corporations will be able to sue European countries, including Slovenia, through branches in Canada, with more than 42 thousand. If a recommendation were to be drawn up on the basis of the position of the United Left, they would suggest that negotiations should be terminated, that such trade-investment agreements should not be concluded at all, as there is sufficient evidence that they are unfair and would harm people and the environment. No exaggeration can be said that TTIP and CETA are today the greatest threats to the environment, the social state and democracy. Once again, until the implementation of the CETA, we are separated less than a month. As Minister Restorationšek said, the agreement still has no final form, let alone to be translated into Slovenian. His acceptance is a farce for democracy. Instead of a referendum, we'll get a scam in the form of temporary use. Who in their right mind would support something like this?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! I will begin with the conclusion of Junker's speech, which he delivered on 14th of this month in Strasbourg, quote: "My father believed in Europe because he believed in stability, labour rights and social progress. Because he knew too well that peace in Europe was precious and fragile. I believe in Europe because my father taught me those same values. What do we teach our children today? What will they inherit from us? A union that's falling apart because of its unanimity? A Union that forgets its past and has no vision for the future? Our children deserve more. They deserve a Europe that preserves their way of life. They deserve a Europe that empowers and protects them. They deserve a Europe that protects them. It is time for all of us, institutions, governments and citizens to take responsibility for building such a Europe together." First of all, I want to trouble myself with the title of the agenda item. Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the secret trade-investment agreements TTIP and CETA. The leadership of the National Assembly should not have come to the wrong place on the agenda. The ones who blow the horn that agreements are secret are the ones who know the most about them. If the agreements are secret, then we must close this meeting and follow the Secret Data Act. So there is already some deception and poisoning of the Slovenian public. And that's not a criticism of being understood, proposing. Slovenia has been monitoring this for several years, and this can be confirmed by those who have been in this Parliament for a little while, and this Parliament is monitoring the negotiations on both the CETA agreement and the TTIP. In fact, we have always endorsed the views of this or other government in Parliament. We're not a player, we can't stop these two agreements. We, New Slovenia, claim that these two agreements can be good answers to the changing world. We live in a global village the third millennium trade is and will be different from the 19th. For centuries. That's a fact. And these two agreements are an opportunity. We all have the right to an opportunity. These two agreements are also a threat. And here we must be very careful that these dangers are eliminated. Discussions accompanying the negotiations also raise a number of questions among us Christian Democrats regarding social protection of workers, concern for vulnerable groups, reducing social inequalities and migration, promoting peace and accountability for future generations. Therefore, Nova Slovenija would like to draw attention to some of the problems and contribute its share to the development of its content. During the election campaign 2014, I led a delegation of the National Assembly or the Committee on European Union Affairs as the then President of this Committee to the COSAC conference in Athens. There, with 15 other colleagues from 15 other parliaments, I co-signed a letter from me and the website to the then Trade Commissioner, where sixteen European Union Committees of Affairs asked the European Commission to have the CETA and TTIP Agreement become a mixed agreement, a mixed agreement, similar to the ACTA Agreement, as you remember. This means that agreements must come to national parliaments for confirmation. I am pleased and proud that we have done this so that when the documents come to the National Assembly, we will be able to discuss them in a qualified manner and decide freely for or against them. Whether the agreements have thousands of pages or three thousand pages. Even if you go to the MGRT reading room today, you won't actually be able to figure anything out because every new negotiation, every new round of TTIP negotiations brings some new variants, some new version of these agreements. We need to be vigilant in the negotiations, I think, and therefore I conclude that these two CETA and TTIP agreements can be a good answer, an appropriate response to the changing world. We will not oppose these positions proposed here, but of course we will reject all the amendments of the United Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. We have two agreements ahead of us, but in fact we can talk about three agreements, because the issue is the same for all three, and the common denominator is the transparency of the agreement. As my colleague Horvath said before me, those who have seen the agreements should not, in fact, comment on them. Those who say something about it can be said only from publicly available data. Transparency requires that we accept in Parliament the documents we have seen and are transparent. So when it is definitively known what is in this document, then we can discuss and decide on this document. As long as it's all wrapped up in greatness, we can't make that decision. What can we expose? We can point out that from publicly available data it is clear that agreements are threatening the quality of human life, health, and, for many cases, we have been warned by colleagues from France who are firmly protecting their agriculture. The state has stood up for its farmers because in France we know what it means to have farmers take the streets and strike. Environmental protection standards – water, air, CO2 pollution with ozone, forests. All of this has to be protected. And there are no clear answers here. For Slovenia, however, it is particularly important, as a small economy, what are the advantages and disadvantages of agreements, if only large countries can benefit from agreements, and Slovenia, which is a small country. Why do these problems arise? Because the design approach is made from above, it is said that we do not know who participated in the creation and who are the entities that put priority in these arrangements. The very concept of democracy and the European Union is set from the bottom up. We are the ones who elect the European Members. So this is where these two concepts cross, which is why there's so much confusion. The European Union is in crisis. Why is he in crisis? Because we were only talking about the first pillar of the European Union, the free movement of people and capital. Now that security policy problems are emerging, foreign policy, which is the second pillar, and police and judicial cooperation, the third pillar, has begun to face problems with regard to migration in Europe. Why should there be special mechanisms to resolve disputes, for the greatest secret lies here. It's about the classic resting of the rule of law and the privatisation of the judiciary. We have three concepts of the rule of law, the English Rule of Law, the Inland Rechtstaadt and the American constitutionalism. So, three systems are fighting each other. We also have a continental system in Europe where we are trying to implement the US justice system. As a result, dispute resolution mechanisms have been put in place. The dispute resolution mechanism, the first proposed, is now improved by the ICS. But this is about the withdrawal of the regulatory functions of the state and the abandonment of dispute resolution to unknown entities so far. It is thus a matter of privatising the trial, thus resting the rule of law, resting democracy and protecting human rights. That's why these two mechanisms are the most controversial. And at least we need to clear up these issues before we confirm these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you, Dr. Dobovšek. To present the last position of the parliamentary groups, we will give the word mags. To Bojan Krajnc, who will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! TTIP and CETA. This is an important free trade agreement and their aim is to remove trade barriers in various economic sectors, facilitate access for European and Slovenian companies to the American or Canadian market and facilitate the purchase and sale of goods and services between the EU and the US or between the EU and Canada, which can stimulate economic growth and lead to new jobs in the signatory countries. The European Union, the US and Canada are one of the largest economic partners, and the TTIP and CETA agreements could only increase their economic cooperation. Therefore, negotiations on both agreements on both sides of the Atlantic started with a great deal of support, as all actors were aware that agreements would have a positive impact on their economy. The conclusion of the TTIP would even lead to the introduction of the world's largest free trade area. The CETA agreement has already concluded negotiations and the TTIP has concluded its 14th round of negotiations. In the Modern Centre Party, we support the continuation of the TTIP negotiations, but we must note that our support is not unconditional. For both agreements, we agree with the temporary application of the agreements, but only in the part which is traditionally and indisputable within the exclusive competence of the European Union. In addition, we are committed to ensuring as much caution and transparency as possible in the negotiations. We also advocate that, at EU level, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia represents in the National Assembly the adopted positions of the Republic of Slovenia on the TTIP and CETA agreement, and that access by the public concerned to information on those agreements be improved, taking into account the rules on public access to documents. The position of the Modern Centre Party is that sufficient time should be allowed for Member States to examine and decide on the CETA Agreement and on other free trade agreements. In addition, I would like to add that the content of the TTIP agreement is given absolute priority before the rapid conclusion of the negotiations. High Slovenian and European standards must be protected in particular in the areas of sustainable development, food safety, protection of human and animal health, consumer protection, labour and social rights and protection of water resources and the environment. In addition, we oppose changes to the legislative framework in the field of genetically modified organisms in the European Union, as this would lead to a reduction in existing standards. We therefore require specific treatment of sensitive agricultural crops, and cooperation between partners must clearly reflect the application of the precautionary principle in both agreements. Not only CETA, but also TTIP should be an agreement of mixed nature within the shared competence of the European Union and its Member States, so ratification in national parliaments is also necessary, including, of course, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We support the preparation of studies that represent the effects of the TTIP and CETA agreements on Slovenia and the other Member States of the European Union. We therefore advocate that before the possible ratification of the agreement, the Government obtains information and, following the necessary preparation of additional studies, which will show the concrete impact of these two agreements on Slovenia or the Slovenian economy. For these reasons, we will support the updated proposal for a recommendation on the TTIP and CETA trade and investment agreements adopted at the 20th meeting of the Committee on the Economy on 6 September 2016.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the points and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the proposal of the amendments tabled on 20 September 2016. I am putting to the debate, colleagues and colleagues, the first item and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u125	As usual, in some ways I would like to present what the amendments we have tabled are actually. It is that we return these recommendations, which this coalition, although partly, some are concerned about the process and negotiations themselves and the impact of these agreements, but have adopted amendments that have in fact destroyed the impact of these recommendations that we have proposed. The first point is a very clear-cut diction concerning the negotiations. The National Assembly recommends that the Government put forward views already adopted, which are at least a minimum to ensure that these agreements are carefully accessible. And in the event that these views expressed by the Republic of Slovenia in the negotiations have not been taken into account, as has been the case several times before, even in the responses of Minister Počvalska, this has been demonstrated by the fact that we have deviated from the negotiations on these agreements. I think it's a very simple and understandable recommendation. To the second point, in the spirit of transparency, which we all like to talk about, we have recommended to the Government, and with this amendment, we now reiterate that at least for two months it reports on the course of negotiations, that the public also learns what is also happening in the negotiation process in this agreement and what they are actually bringing, and that civil society and professional and trade-union movements are involved in the debate on these agreements, as well as in appropriate or appropriate ways. This, of course, applies mainly to the TTIP agreement. Fourthly, we propose to the Government that there should be a position at EU level on the inappropriateness of the provision on temporary use. I think that's one of the key recommendations we're making. We are firmly in the position, in addition to the fact that such agreements are totally unacceptable, that temporary use as a mechanism is just as totally unacceptable, regardless of which parts of this temporary use are being implemented, as was heard from the State Secretary's presentation. Temporary use means nothing more than that it means a simple circuit for parliaments to decide. Comrade Krajnc spoke in his position to ratify. Ratification is sand in the eyes or just some form of formality that will be done much after such agreements have entered into force just because of temporary use. It is precisely because what will be agreed on by the European Commission and what will be confirmed by the Council and thus by the representatives of the Member States will in fact enter into force by signing such a treaty at the moment. In point 5, we are proposing something which is also very important and the position of the Republic of Slovenia is clear at the moment. We have also heard today that the ICS arbitration mechanism is unacceptable. Just because it is unacceptable, we propose that the Republic of Slovenia, as such, should immediately initiate proceedings before the European Court of Justice to verify that the ICS mechanism is potentially contrary to the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. A similar case occurred in Germany, where, otherwise, an initiative has already been put before their Constitutional Court to decide on the compliance of the ICS mechanism with the legal order there, i.e. the German legal order. However, it is crucial that the initiative was launched before the Court of Justice of the European Union. The government, therefore, not as has now been amended the recommendation, so that we wait for a decision on one similar dispute that was brought about with regard to the Singapore Agreement, but to do so without delay because we can expect a verdict in that case only in March 2017, which of course will be significantly too late. CETA will have been signed long ago and ratification may have taken place at that time. Such a procedure would therefore be totally unnecessary at the time. In addition, I would like to point out that, at its 281st meeting on 2 September, the Economic and Social Council decided that Slovenia should, before the conclusion of the opinion 2/15 procedure, this agreement with Singapore, make a request for an assessment of the compliance of the ICS mechanism contained in the CETA agreement with the acquis. At that time, the Government's representative on the Economic and Social Council confirmed such a decision, so that it is not a deviation of what was once the positions of the Ministry and also of the Government. To point 7 we add the text that the Government is committed to carrying out consultative referendums on CETA and TTIP agreements. I would like to continue here in some way to reject the findings that may appear, that the consultative referendum is something that is within the competence of the National Assembly. Of course we all know it is. However, a commitment or at least a positive signal from the Government, which would in some way encourage citizens and citizens to decide on this issue in a consultation referendum, that is to say whether this country should adopt such agreements at all, is likely to be a very strong commitment that in such cases not only some representatives of the opposition or those who oppose such agreements but, in fact, the State as a whole decides whether it is reasonable to sign such agreements. These are the amendments for a short time. Perhaps you would like to ask the secretary of state a few questions in the beginning. In its reply to the question, the Minister said that Slovenia had repeated its reservations about the ICS, i.e. at the time in the Council of Ministers, she also stressed that the final decision would be taken by the National Assembly and drew attention to the issue of water, and the European Commission would provide a written answer to that question. I am now interested in what Slovenia has specifically pointed out about water, what is the water issue, when Slovenia's warning will be presented to the National Assembly, when the European Commission's response in this regard is expected and when the answer will be presented and addressed in the National Assembly. In addition, I would like to know when CETA is expected to be cleaned. If I understand correctly, the conclusions will be finalized or officially confirmed somewhere on 12 October and signed on 18 October. If we quickly recalculate, we have 6 days to have the government draw up a proposal for a position, this proposal is voted on by the National Assembly and then we do the whole thing. So less than a week. I am also interested in how, without the final form of decisions, the National Assembly will be able to decide on the provisional use of CETA or the whole agreement as such. And the last question is, what happened at the 15th government meeting? 9. However, I am thinking about whether the Government will take account of the ESF, which I have already mentioned, which is the case before the Court of Justice of the European Union. If, when will such a procedure be initiated – or after Opinion 2/15, which is to be in March 2017, will this happen sooner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you, Dr. Vatovec. It seemed reasonable to me that you had set so wide that I would let you discuss all the points, but we would still have to go through the whole procedure. Madam Secretary of State, when you feel the need to answer, just tell me and I will give you my word. I'm asking my colleagues if they want to discuss it. Lord Luke the moon, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In support of the amendments presented by my colleague Vatovec, I will give only a few details about these secret agreements or what we can promise from them. One general belief, which we have also heard in the position of NSI, is that more relaxed world trade is good, that we live in a global village and that we need a new economic model for Europe in the 21st century and that these agreements, which remove trade barriers on both sides of the Atlantic, lead precisely to this objective. It means more relaxed world trade, more economic growth, more jobs. But unfortunately, none of this is true. Thus, they have shown essentially all relevant research so far, and the reason for this is simple. The reason for this is that we are actually making agreements here, that is, CETO in the case of Canada, TTIP in the case of the United States, with developed markets that are more or less full on both sides of the Atlantic, and what someone in Europe will gain, someone in America will lose. So it's basically a game of black sums and nothing else. Thus, if an American corporation secures a greater market share in the automotive industry in Europe, European producers will lose it. If I make this concrete with the Slovenian case. The research carried out has repeatedly shown that this particular case of the Slovenian automotive industry will receive direct competition from America and will therefore most likely suffer economic damage. The first thing we need to know about these agreements is that they will not bring more economic growth or more jobs, because it is essentially a zero-sum game and that the world economy is already too liberalised than it is too small already. If I'm more specific. The problem is that between Europe, America and the US, in fact, there are no trade barriers now, and what these agreements are talking about is not trade barriers, but the elimination of regulations. There is more or less elimination of regulations such as social, environmental protection, lower consumer standards and so on. So what big corporations see as obstacles to their trade, and what they really see as beneficial protections that are for the benefit of all of us. Now, if I just focus on the economic effects and give examples of some studies. At the Centre for Economic Policy Research in the European Commission, a very optimistic study has been carried out, after which the economic effects of these two agreements should be such that economic growth will increase by half a percentage. So, half a percent, and this is what later studies put on the lie, because they found that this center focused on too optimistic assumptions. Jerome Capaldo, often used for a reference survey of these two agreements, shows exactly the opposite. His research has shown that the agreements will have not only zero effects, as I described at the outset, but even negative effects on economic growth in both the US and Canada and Europe. In particular, TTIP and CETA will bring a negative 0.29% lower economic growth for Germany and an estimated 600,000 jobs for all countries involved. At the same time, a reduction in the income of workers is assessed and a lower purchasing power resulting from this. They put these researches on the European tail itself. Slovenia is supposed to be the country in Europe that will take the worst, and the reason I mentioned at the outset is that our pharmaceutical industry, Lek and Krka, on the one hand, will win competition from the US. It is also mentioned many times at the Ministry and you mentioned the possible good effects for Slovenia, which is due to the fact that our export markets, in particular Germany, will grow on certain assumptions and Slovenia is expected to export more. But studies have just shown that Slovenian exports will decrease due to the things I described. More. Studies have shown that even Germany will know this in a negative sense on economic growth. So these agreements, which are before us, are unfortunately bad not only for economic growth, but also their indirect effects will be poor, i.e. less environmental protection, less worker protection, less consumer protection. At the same time they bring, and in CETI this is still contained, even though Slovenia's position is that this should not be the case, the ICS mechanism. So a mechanism to establish an arbitral tribunal in which multinationals will be able to sue states for their loss of profits. For example, if Slovenia were to amend some legislation and some foreign insurance company or foreign tobacco industry would experience a business loss, this multinational country could now sue and claim compensation for the amended legislation. That's what both agreements bring with them. That is why we have also proposed amendments, one of which our government says that in the event of a lack of respect for Slovenian positions, which are clear if I repeat the words of Minister Restovalska the last time, "the ICS mechanism is unacceptable", he repeated the word unacceptable three times if it is not respected that Slovenia, as France has done, requires the suspension of negotiations. I lay my heart on all my colleagues and colleagues here to take our amendments into account, to draw up a position that will at least be harmless to Slovenia, because there is nothing good about these agreements and to read your research and to see exactly what these two agreements bring with them. In the United Left, we are concerned, on the basis of these facts, and the research that has been done, that they are neither in the economic nor in the social and not in the environmental sense, absolutely nothing good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Moon. I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss the amendment of the Group's 1st amendment. I'm guessing yes. Mrs. Marinka Levičar, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Nice greetings to everyone who's here! I am also very concerned about these two agreements, so I listened here in this Chamber to some advice, and perhaps you, colleagues, were something between us. I must say that all those civil associations, various organisations, Greenpeace, the Union of Consumers, many of them were present, many more than we Members. I must say that everyone has expressed their concerns and concerns about these two agreements, what this will bring to Slovenia and also to the EU. That is why I am joining these views and opinions expressed by Members of the United Left Group, because I think we can be very careful when adopting these agreements. Mr Horvath reminded me of what Mr Juncker said in his speech, our children deserve more. That is why I think it is appropriate to follow all these recommendations, because it is better than less to make less binding recommendations. I would also like to refer to what Mr Horvat has said, and it has encouraged me to debate again. Slovenia, that's some global you. And even if the Slovenian Parliament does not ratify this agreement, what it means to us. I'm just curious about the answer. We are also bound to other markets in the European Union. Will we import food from Belgium, France? They'll have agreements there, the TTIP transatlantic agreement, and they'll import food from America. This food will not meet our standards and then we will receive this food indirectly. There's a lot of dilemma and questions here. I also have a great deal of dilemma with regard to this ICS court, which is said to have only been renamed from the previous ISDS, and the content is essentially the same. This is also recalled by the European Association of Judges, and I have heard that our judges have doubts about this. There are a lot of concerns about both agreements. Also as regards the provisional validity or prior validity of CETE. That is why I certainly think it is wise to support or complement these positions and proposals made by the United Left. I'm gonna do it myself because I'm really trying to make sure our kids won't ever tell us what we did to them if we've done something bad for ourselves. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lefty. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Štravs Podlogar, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Thank you very much first of all for the very constructive and well-founded comments. It is true that several countries in the past or statesmen have commented on further negotiations. On the other hand, it is true that so far no country has officially given that red card. As has already been said, no country can stop the negotiating process. On the other hand, it is true that the agreement itself will not apply until it is also ratified by the Slovenian Parliament, for all countries. One of the basic starting points of our objectives has been reached for a mixed agreement. Maybe a brief explanation about the water. We have put questions to the European Commission on water regulation in order to avoid any problems or misinterpretations. Yesterday, the European Commission gave us an official response that the provisions of this Agreement do not affect in any way the competence of the EU or the Member States to regulate the field of water resources in accordance with national legislation. Of course, it is true, as Minister Restoration points out, that we are also pursuing our goals. The informal meeting of trade ministers begins tomorrow in Bratislava, where we will again highlight Slovenian positions. However, I must say that for the first time we will have the opportunity to present these views to the Canadian parties. At the initiative of Canada, we will meet at a shorter meeting and an exchange of views and a presentation of our reservations and views, which have already been adopted by the National Assembly. About the translation itself. In these days the Slovenian translation was made, I think, even today. Unfortunately, despite the emphasis on transparency, the content before time is indeed a time-consuming problem, so today the Slovenian version of the CETA Agreement is also transmitted to the National Assembly. But it is true that the final versions of the conclusions still do not exist. We're talking about three conclusions. These are the signing decision, the provisional application decision and the ratification decision. We're still waiting for you after the meeting in Bratislava. The meetings in Brussels will then continue until the end of September and 18 October. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the amendment, and also something as general as is customary, so I would like to define the amendment to point 1. Here we cannot support the amendment of the United Left, and we are surprised that the United Left or this amendment renounces the mandate of the National Assembly. If we look at the updated proposal for a recommendation, point 1 says in the last sentence: 'the position on the EU Council conclusions for signature for provisional use and for the conclusion of those agreements will be adopted by the National Assembly'. That's what's waiting for us. There is no way we can support the amendment of the United Left, which somehow eliminates the National Assembly. It is true, however, when we accept that these positions of Slovenia should also be taken into account in the negotiations, we must be realistic that this is probably not possible if the EU is negotiating 28 plus Canada or the EU 28 plus the United States. You know, negotiation always takes a kind of rapprochement, a lack of relaxation. But our negotiators, the representatives of our Slovenian government in this and previous mandates, know how far they can go if there is a need for concession. So much for this now. But the fact is, colleagues and colleagues, that in the European Union, as Commissioner Violeta Bulc said on Monday, we have about 120 trade agreements. They're probably working because otherwise they probably couldn't trade me. Most of these agreements, of course, also know mechanisms such as ISDS and ICS and so on. I'm sure there are some bad legal practices. I'm sure they are. They're probably good, too. I must thank and congratulate my distinguished colleague Luke Mescu, who has studied research that is somehow visionary, not to say futuristically assessing what these two secret agreements will bring, which have not yet been concluded and have not yet been adopted. Luke’s colleague, the moon, determined exactly how much GDP would change in Germany by a hundred percent. Very thorough research. But I can't congratulate him on making us CETA enthusiasts. We are not CETA enthusiasts, we are not TTPI enthusiasts, I said in my position, if you would listen to me correctly, Mr Moon, and be honest in the debate, I would understand that I said that we all have the right to the opportunity, but that these agreements also pose dangers. Every opportunity also presents risks of danger and we must focus on these risks and make thorough analyses. We in Novi Slovenija want to discuss these agreements at ethical and social origins. It is perfectly normal for each political party to look at these two agreements through their political optics. We, you won't mind, through Christian values. These ones, which have actually meant and still, I hope, are the pillar of the European Union. And the key is to carry out a thorough analysis here with us, an expert and political debate should be held on all positive and negative impacts on society and the environment. We in Novi Slovenija are not only interested in the increased volume of trade. Actually, we don't care about that at all. We are not interested in just maintaining European standards, which we all say are high, as regards safe food, ecology and so on. We must strive to raise these standards, to raise them, because we are responsible for our craftsmen, for the children who come after us and for the children of our children. Such an assessment should take into account, in addition to economic theory, the objective analysis of the actual effects of the proposed agreements on our citizens, on society and on our planet. I understand the whole planet globally, not Slovenia. We are all a global village, thanks to technology as well. And once again, the third millennium trade is likely to be different from the 19th century. So the analysis I am talking about must take into account the possible consequences of the transatlantic partnership on the basic needs, the elements of prosperity and the right to access and the right to an opportunity, which I am talking about for the third time now. The Transatlantic Partnership must contribute to the well-being of all citizens, all in particular the poor. Otherwise, the gap will only increase between the rich and the poor. Slovenia is so far a very egalitarian society if we look at Gini's coefficient. And there's nothing wrong with staying here. But the problem is that we are egalitarian in poverty This egalitarianism must be raised so that we are all rich, that we will all have a high standard. The intended benefits are to be shared fairly by us, or inequality can only deepen as I have said. The Transatlantic Partnership must therefore contribute to a safer and more peaceful world and not to strengthening economic and political tensions. The fact is that policies for a better common future that respect the rights of present and future generations cannot be created either by excessive regulation or by radical deregulation. Agreements and agreements must maintain social dynamics by giving necessary certainty to the creative forces of the mind and heart. I think that these discussions will still be necessary, maybe this is too early, maybe it's on the wrong assumption. Once again, it really bothers me to get on the agenda of a meeting of the National Assembly, a point that is wrong, talking about the wrong entities, secret agreements. How could this happen on the agenda? I really don't get it. I hope I forgive these mistakes, but I hope they don't repeat themselves in the future. As far as the referendum is concerned, so that I will not come forward again, Mr Vice-President, we had a referendum on 23 March 2003. Two numbers are important, a million and 90. Nearly a million voters came to vote and almost 90% decided to join Slovenia in the EU. Last year we adopted a declaration on foreign policy and we said: the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU is our basic political and value framework. Isn't that what we're all about today? I didn't hear the government preparing or anyone else making a declaration. We must all work, if we first agree that Europe has brought something to us since 1 May 2004 at this time, which is what Slovenia is a member of. We must all agree, but it is true that in each village we have a monument to the European Union, which can be called a new school, a new kindergarten, sewerage, plumbing, sidewalk and so on. Is that true? I think it is. If only the mayor is as good as he is. Or at that time, on March 23, 2003, people made a mistake. I don't think so. I am not a Eurofanatist, I am a Eurorealist, and I firmly believe that together we can continue the EU 27, or maybe the EU 25, so that together we can continue and make a good future for our children and for the children of our children. We had 70 years of relative peace, and if we look at what we create with our minds, even with our hands in the European Union, we see that 7% of the world population creates almost a quarter of the world's GDP. How this is distributed is, of course, a question and a task for Slovenian policy as well. We still have a lot of homework to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Joseph Horvat. I give the text to the representative of the proposal's proposal for a recommendation to Dr Mate T. Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you. Short response. Comrade Horvat said that in a way Luke had made a visionary determination based on research and what studies had shown that growth would be such and such or that it would not and so on. I'd just like to give you an example here. Last week, or when we discussed these recommendations on the home working body, at the time in its original form, an exclusive representative of the European Commission was invited, and Commissioner Malmström's aide, Mr Burgsmüller, who said that the agreement should enter into force temporarily, and we will see in the coming years what it will bring. What is more unwise or visionary, or what is related to at least approximately accurate calculations of economists showing what the consequences are and what these agreements entail, and this is not just one study; there were more, including those ordered by the European Commission, which have shown more or less more negative effects, and positive at the level of a hundred percent. I think it is far more unwise to sign such an agreement, land on temporary use and wait for what will happen. At the time, I told the board that it was something like sitting on a couch at home looking at my apartment and saying, "What if I bring down this stretcher wall and see what happens?" I think that's about the same attitude. My friend Horvath also said what we're going to leave to the explorers, the planet. The fact is, if we go or if we agree to such agreements, if we agree to be forced to do so, and if we actually start implementing them, I don't think we're going to leave much, not even to our craftsmen. In Europe, we may leave those representatives of large multinationals and corporations, or those who run these companies, to the recruiters. But we know what the planet is. We have heard, for example, that these agreements also directly jeopardise the implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement and so on. So again, nothing good. As far as secrecy is concerned – to talk about the fact that these agreements are not secret, in some ways they point to at least a fraction of the ignorance of this situation. The fact is that CETA was adopted or negotiated in complete secrecy. Until the negotiations were concluded, we knew nothing about this agreement. Even now it is very difficult to get through what is written in this text. A very similar thing is actually a TTIP. What the public knows or can see was what came to the public through whistleblowers, which Geenpeac’s activists actually acquired and then transmitted to the public. On the basis of these characters, as they are called, these figures can also be assumed to be what these agreements bring. Those who oppose these agreements do not speak out of their minds or speak of things that they do not know anything about, but speak on the basis of what has been seen and what is actually recorded in these agreements. Those who read these documents will see that they are not so innocent. There are mechanisms that are elements in these agreements that clearly show that it is not just some simple spread of peace and trade around the world, but it is simply an extension of the interests of companies that, of course, want to expand their market and, as a result, profit. I think that's what's important in all this. And in a way, I can repeat the same questions: What are we going to leave to the explorers, what are we going to leave to the planet? Let us ask ourselves this question, consider it and, of course, not approve such agreements.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I certainly don't want to be one of those who would be against who would somehow break some attempts at cooperation, for a better flow of work, capital and services. However, one proverb says, “Warning is the mother of wisdom. ” Even in such cases, which, under the footnotes, are quite high in dust. I, in the opening position of the Desus Group, said that we support, and I personally support all such efforts, which, at the end of the day, have a desire, an ambition to make some movement, some added value. But we need some time to do that if the agreement is now scheduled to be signed on the 28th of the next month. At this point, there are a lot of questions open and I am glad that there is no man in the National Assembly, no Member or Member, and no matter what political party there is, who would say that this is dry gold, we support it. Everyone expresses some skepticism, some doubt, no one wants standards in the field of nutrition, ecology, labour rights in particular to be reduced. And that's why we need some time, not because there would be swingers who wouldn't want to make themselves clear, to decide, but to study some things, to analyze things, not to snuggle that phrase, and to show what a potentially ratified agreement, CETA or TTIP can do for us, and in detail. Once we jump in the water, we don’t know for sure or jump into the pool, but we don’t know how much water or even how much water there is in the pool, the consequences can be catastrophic. As a matter of fact, I'm worried that the signature is planned, and I don't agree to it, even that temporary, so-called temporary use doesn't seem okay to me, because then things can go fast. I really wish we weren't under some kind of pressure here. Finally, we have not yet presented our objections, our concerns, our full views. However, it is always so at the end of the day if an agreement, some agreement, some agreement is to be signed, there must be at least two sides, and there are at least two sides. Speaking of CETI, Canada is the European Union, but there are 28 other countries in this European Union, perhaps 27 countries in a few years. So I would appeal here for caution, for haste slowly, so we don't jump early and then say hop when it can be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am also one of those who, according to the years, are very careful about these matters. Therefore, of course, I should mention the change that is also taking place in economic theory. Remember Joseph Stiglitz, who recently wrote a text that says, "free trade is a misleading term." And even in this case, we can experience this matter. The capital is too strong, the countries, including Europe, are too weak associations to fight against capital, and it is necessary to agree on these things in a completely different way first, not to wait for them to allow us, after they have accepted them. We'll see how things work out. You've all moved in your life, all by yourself. We even equipped the apartment. I put a ladder in the hallway that was temporary. I was 10 years old. It's temporary. The "temporary" issue will stand. And there's no temporaryity. He can pick us up at this time of temporaryity, if I may say a little ugly, in this economic sense. Studies when some people say that we need to study, look, and so on, very carefully, because I agree with my colleague that we are not against and so forth to talk. But we don't need a study. In the case of generics, the matter is perfectly clear. If America prolongs the generation of this license, then we don't need generics, we have Dolenjska in half, if you want or cut. Even in Ljubljana, of course, also Lek. So things aren't so unpredictable. We have nothing to talk about in the agricultural field. The position of the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly was quite clear: in the agricultural field, these agreements are totally harmful, there was no doubt that American standards are significantly lower, such as European standards on food safety, the use of GMOs and so on. Not to mention what we all know here, and I'm just warning you. The argument put forward by colleague Horvat, who has now gone out that we have all entered the European Union, is true. But here comes this question, what about us or what about our children? Today we listen to a lot of criticism about what happened because we went to that Yugoslavia once. And when it began to talk about Yugoslavia that it would be strong or not, it went apart. We also have the difficulty of Europe being strong or not. In short, these associations, these analogies, if you want, can be very dangerous. A strong Europe means a centralist Europe, which can mean a lot of internal friction in the future, and in the end, I would hate to say, a breakdown. We're here. We're on this edge. So something warned in this sense that it is good to be a little bit wiser than agreeing to everything they offer us or to do a lot of things that they offer us not to exaggerate. I'm one of the ones who's been held back on these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you, Mr. Haniz. And I'm giving the word to Dr. Frantz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. In fact, I am pleased that at least part of the National Assembly has been able to sensitize us on the subject. On the other hand, I have little regrets that we have not received from the executive branch some of the answers requested by the applicant. I'd like to touch the procedure myself. Look, today, a thousand 600-page deal with Canada is due to come to Parliament. Those who read this translation say he's a little awkward. He's probably also legally not checked enough, I hope to argue, because it's another Anglo-Saxon legal tradition. And now he's in a hurry. Why is he in a hurry? Because the young, beautiful Canadian prime minister will come to Europe and this should be signed then and then. He's in a similar hurry with TTIP because they're supposed to sign this before Obama ends his term of office. When someone who I've been crazy about at board meetings comes from Brussels to this temple of democracy, so-called, they're always in a hurry. They're always late for the plane. At Juncker's speech, Ban Ki Moon also gave a very resounding speech now at the end of his term of office. There were two points, let's stop fooling around, let's stop stealing. Juncker defined himself in that speech as a 60-year-old young man whose father fought for social and, in particular, labour rights. This is not cynicism now, I regret to say that this 60-year-old man has somewhere forgotten this, especially when he was a minister from the state, and on the scale of GDP and other indicators and money laundering, he has been a very important country in the EU. A month before the signing of the agreement with Canada, the Secretary of State said frankly, gentlemen were pleased that our representatives would be able to say something for the first time. If it is not a democratic deficit, if it is not a problem to ask whose Commission the European Commission is. You know, there's been a leak that, in fact, when I talk about another agreement, Americans have been asking for much less time for a clause to keep this matter a secret, and European negotiators have demanded that this remain a secret for several decades. Such agreements, the method of how they come into being, the method of design, all of this is in fact contradicted by the basic logic of democratic co-decision. It is therefore necessary to oppose such agreements. Of course, such agreements are needed at some transparent level, where both civil society and representative models of democracy play a role. They are needed because the other shortcuts are essentially wars, trade wars and some actual wars, which are also a form of economics. I'm sorry. Therefore, in fact, in this whole case, a relatively small country here can be a large country. Grief for me when I pass through the bookstores — and what do they translate into Slovenian? Hitler's résumé, Mussolini's résumé, Stalin's résumé, but I didn't see them translate Olaf Palme's résumé so that it might be our starting point. That is why I am also often trying to connect Slovenia to. I went to my brother's agreement with my colleague MTV, maybe I have the wrong information now, and at the time before the parliamentary holidays, we were the only parliamentarians who read it. And some of the executives read it. Of course, I went first to watch what I'm doing professionally, from my background. I was reading the case, and I started cutting myself in the middle. Because you have to read those articles a little bit cross forward and back where I've seen one thing where you're very clear big players in the telecommunications market, and I can't tell you anymore, because the police are going to start following me now. The lady who "guarded me" told me what to do. I said, like that. And she said, and they were with the directorate, and they said everything was fine. I don't want to say now that people in the department don't know anything, they're probably too obsessed with the work that they have, which is probably too bureaucratic, and maybe they haven't doctored from this area that I'm from. But without throwing yourself out now, I'm only saying one small case like that, and there's a whole bunch of them. When we walked in, that's the same thing. [[Incomprehensible]] Some lady doctored from this because then it turned out we signed a blank menu because we didn't know what it was. It is also a very complex long agreement with many articles, sub-members, with logical obstacles. This isn't some kind of love affair between two teenagers. This is about players, as Mr. New Slovenia would say, in a global village and some physionomy of power. And in a global village, this village, called Slovenia, must be able to protect itself, connect with related villages and be smarter. And that's actually what this is about. That's why we're making these proposals. When I was in Austria, and I'm not some fetishist in Austria, we also talked about the role of state parliaments and they said that their previous Minister of Agriculture went to Brussels and said "up to here and here I can negotiate, but I can't go forward because my Parliament said that and that." I don't know if Mr. Jew and our other ministers are acting that way when they go on these kind of business trips. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you, too. I ask whether anyone else wants to discuss the ZL Group's amendment and this point. Yeah. Mrs. Andreja Potočnik, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. Let me be a little more general, too. In the SMC Group, we support the views adopted on the Committee. However, I must deny that the recommendations are harmful. Why? As we have been taking a position in the SMC Group of Members all the time, or we are particularly committed to transparency and transparency of negotiations, to secure high European and Slovenian standards. It is also our view that the agreement is dealt with under the shared competence of the European Union, the Member States and that it must be ratified by the National Assembly as a result. Today, there has been a lot of negative information and negative assumptions about the CETA agreement itself, and allow me to present the positives. These include, in particular, the elimination of customs duties - the agreement abolishes customs duties for more than 99 % of tariff items, restrictions on export duties and other restrictions - the agreement will prohibit export duties and export restrictions, which is particularly important in terms of exports of raw materials and energy where Canada is an important partner in EU exports. The CETA Agreement ensures a reduction of costs arising from non-customs barriers, for example, by enabling a mechanism where European certification organisations can, under Canadian rules, certify products for the Canadian market and vice versa. This will potentially reduce the testing costs of products. No more double-testing. Protection of intellectual property – implementation of the agreement will eliminate the current asymmetry between the level of protection of rights and intellectual property in the EU and Canada. Canada will supplement its legislation by implementing, on the basis of an EU model, additional sui generis protection certificates for pharmaceutical products that allow all parties to have the same and effective opportunity to appeal. These provisions will give European manufacturers of innovative medicinal products a level of protection similar to that of the EU market in Canada. However, we certainly agree that we must give priority to content before we conclude quickly. It seems important to me that before the possible ratification of the agreement, the Government will obtain information and, if necessary, prepare a study to show the concrete impact of these two agreements. The last word will certainly be given to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u144	Replica, Dr. Franz Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you. Look, I'm going to have a very short replica. The trade between Slovenia and Canada is around 100 million. Our economy works with the European Union for three quarters of its business. How these agreements would affect the economy of the European Union, however, my colleague, Mesec, has already said. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u146	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment of the United Left. Lord Miha Kordish, please. Your word is.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. There is no secret that in the United Left we oppose the secret agreements of CETA, TTIP, TISA and other birds of this nest. And that's why we came to this National Assembly with recommendations drawn up in the way they were. If the Slovenian requirements for some high standards to which the entire national assembly is now being sworn are not respected, we simply go to the conclusion of the negotiations. This is how you negotiate to show some muscles or at least a large expression of dissatisfaction. And if it is not enough for anyone that Slovenia is small, it is weak, and then stop negotiating and dealing with it as an estranged political elite, as a political bureaucratic regime that is in relation to dependence on the European Union and multinational corporations, turn to the power and support of your own people who have elected you here. And I'm inside no one has elected you to support secret agreements, not even in the vicinity of their provisional use. Here practically the entire political class is questioning these secret agreements. It's just that everyone finds some reservations. Everything's fine and fine. But within a month, CETA comes into temporary use, with which you have no major problems. As it is said, it is practically as if this agreement were to be enforced only through some turn of the drain that denies some minimum democracy, which you are also swearing to, if you do, this agreement will come to the National Assembly and we will then reject it if something is not right and so this Full of you are some nice words, but you are actually holding the stand for multinational corporations, please! [[…]] And who believes you? Thank God, nobody! What this agreement does not bring about is strong economic growth, it is not a beautiful story about the free market, and so on, it brings privatisation. Privatisation of public services, privatisation of water resources, privatisation of public enterprises. That I don't even begin to lose words about job security and so on about social and food standards. How the hell will Slovenian farmers find themselves in conditions of competition with American huge industrial farms, which are still subsidised? How do you imagine that Slovenian farmer will survive under such conditions of operation? Let me answer that! Of course you can't sell me, except for the flossule here. The mechanism, if all of this terrible stuff that I have just described, is not enforced, is not to do what a corporate blackmail mechanism will do, but it is to give these corporations the authority to sue us before the private tribunals for any democratic control. But we won't want to privatize the water. Don't panic, there's gonna be some multinational who's gonna sue us to these last slums. This is only the content of the agreements if we leave at this point aside that all these agreements are going on in secret. They are secretly written, they are practically adopted secretly, and therefore, in the United Left we demand that at least the public refuse – by referendum. Those who have no bad conscience in front of the public will not go to write and make agreements in secret. Why the hell would I do that?Oh, my God! And it will not defend itself with all four, when the appalled, bitter European public demands that the provisions of the agreements be dissolved. And then the Members of the SMC explain to us how they are for transparency, for transparency of negotiations and so on. Yeah, well, words are cheap. To conclude another point concerning the referendum. A winning argument, why the referendum didn't, we could hear it from the right-wing tribunal. Because we had it 13 years ago when we joined the European Union. Dear soul, who spoke 13 years ago about international secret agreements in March 2003? That's a really attractive argument for hair. But Nova Slovenija is at least fair in her sentence. But for the political class, Slovenian political class is democracy that we once had democracy. Rajnka Yugoslavia behaved as a title of human democracy, and the current Slovenia can obviously be awarded the title of a humane democracy. And there's something else about this temporary use of agreements. There's no more permanent solution than temporary. But this solution is a solution for international capital, by 1%, for large multinational corporations. For Slovenian farmer, consumer, worker, consumer of public services is a nightmare. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dr. Runcho, thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss the first point and the amendment of the United Left. I guess not. I am putting to the debate the second item and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate the fourth item and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate the 5th item and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate the 7th item and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the vote, according to the meeting's time frame, at 6.30 p.m. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6:30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u149	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the candidate's proposal for Minister of Finance We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The Minister of Finance is called Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, chairman. As we have already said, we will not support this candidacy. Why? Madam candidate, if I may say metaphorically, the mother of public finances is at least the last two governments. At the same time, in the United Left, we somehow cannot support a candidate in a government where the Prime Minister says that if the workers of a port were not partly state-owned, they would already see their three points. We cannot support a candidate who is passing a tax reform or 60 million credits on the net item of the top thirteen employees in that country, who in fact determines that this is the prize to those who contribute most to the higher added value. Those with minimum wages also contribute to higher added value. By the way, students who clean parliament are on a minimum. So much for this society, this country and this kind of policy. The candidate said that she would seek uninterrupted interference between the public and the private in order to adequately address the financing of the TES number 2 we have at the door of the second track. Here we will closely monitor its work and the policy of this government, and in cases where it is a matter of representing interest, as I like to call it, the original absolute under the Constitution and the sovereign Republic of Slovenia, we will be what we always are – a constructive opposition. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u151	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. New Slovenia's Group of Candidate Mag. Matthew's Vranicator Erman won't support it. We are an opposition party, but very often it comes with very constructive, thoughtful solutions. Even with the new economic policy that we need bloodyly in this country. In a way, I can say that we are disappointed, even though some say that there must be no disappointment in politics, because it is a magician. Matthew Vraničar passionately rejected all our suggestions. We will not forget, perhaps we will forgive that no amendment of the opposition was adopted when the budget debate was held. Not one. When we were in the government, we accepted at least a few opposition amendments. We must not forget that Mrs Mateja Vraničar was a supporter, perhaps even a supporter of the Real Estate Tax Act, which fell violently in the Constitutional Court. We've been sitting here all night, convincing her, she's defending hers, and in the Constitutional Court, she's lost, if I may symbolically say so. There's some truth about burning water, and that's why a woman comes. Perhaps, as the famous macroeconomicists say, there is a new crisis at the door. The situation of the spirit in global financial markets is ideal for a new financial crisis. The stock exchange has become central bank-dependent. If central banks no longer administer the medicine, correction will follow. In the past, the financial advisors assessed each balance sheet of the Slovenian bank as appropriate, which had to be resolved later with tax money. The fact is that the state budget has not changed on the basis, so nothing has changed structurally. Even more and more are the facts that concern us. We are also concerned that Mrs Mateja Vraničar will not always have absolute political support in the government. Because the finance minister has to have it. And that it is a person who views matters too accountingly, too bookkeepingly, and too little creatively in terms of creating a new business model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u153	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u154	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party mag. Matey Vraničnik Erman as Minister of Finance, we will not support it. We won't support her for a number of reasons. The fact is that Mateja Vraničar Erman was the right hand of three ministers: Franca Križanič, Uroš Čufar and Dr. Marble. The characteristics of all three ministers are that they implemented the debt policy and the financial burden on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the economy. The fact is, he's a magician. Matthew Vraničar Erman, according to our assessment, had a bad presentation. She did not give any concrete answers to a number of questions. The fact is also that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stopped the budget for the first time in history, paying in August. And she didn't know where the reasons were. We were talking about early elections. The budget was stopped for the first time so soon and now in August. The management of state property – she did not give a single answer. A very important segment – when will the Slovenian State Holding be given full leadership? What will happen to the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank? When will the strategy for managing state assets arrive in the National Assembly? What policy will it implement at the Claims Management Company, which does not actually perform those functions that it should perform. In fact, only employees and labour costs and advisory contracts are strengthened there. What about European funds? Slovenia has received the lowest amount from European funds in the month of August since Slovenia is a member of the European Union. She didn't want to answer who her closest colleagues would be. She didn't want to tell me who her secretary of state would be. We really say here after all, we are determined not against the appointment of Mateya Vraničar Erman. However, we are convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that not today's appointment of a minister means either a policy of indebtedness or a policy of additional tax burdens.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u155	The explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be given by Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the candidate mags. Matthew Vraničar Erman as Minister of Finance. Why? Out of confidence, confidence in the opinion of the President of the Government and confidence in what she has told us that she will work as a priority in the role of Minister of Finance and the trust she has already gained through the work she is doing during our government. This work meant the return of Slovenia to domestic and international financial stability and confidence in the area that extends out of this country, which meant a new hope and new opportunities for needed development in the future, not only in the financial field, but in all areas. From this point of view, certainly our support with reasons, with numbers, with facts. No need to interpret them one way or another. The numbers speak for themselves as the fact that Matthew Vraničar Erman was an active actress in these numbers. Because I have a little more time, and I'm gonna say something else. I cannot help but avoid that the candidate has a lot of concerns and doubts just because she is a candidate. It was a long time ago when the chorus of some famous folklore led to the wife’s being at home and waiting for her husband. When it is and when it takes over, the woman does not speak, but works. I absolutely believe that this will continue. As Matthew Vraničar Erman has already worked as Secretary of State, I believe she will also work as Minister. And that is why trust is also valuable and worthy of our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u157	Another explanation on behalf of the Group of Members is that I also have an application for my own name. The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. I will not support my candidate for the first time for the reason that I hoped she would not become a typical Slovenian minister too quickly in this deplorable sense, even though she has not yet. At that good 8-hour session on small tax reform or restructuring, she did not answer a whole series of questions. Mrs. Lipicer gave me a good starting point on the numbers. I accidentally turned over a little newspaper today. And even if I didn't, I have those numbers in my head. We have never had such a major interregional difference when we look at statistical regions, municipalities up and down, between Ljubljana and Koroška, 4.5 by the Development Hazard Index. Another story, which is already a half-prayer list, one of the most experienced SD ministers, the protective supplement in 2012 had 40,000 elderly, now having one-tenth of it. And these are the consequences of this and such governments. If I connect to Ivica Sherphesia, who sang like that, I would like to see a transsexual person from some nontypical family in some future government, because families are a cultural category. I hope that this person will be proposed by the United Left, I hope that we will not lose another decade in the next government. Maybe it'll even be a person who'll be at the finance ministry answering questions. I was talking today, and in fact we don't have any serious macroeconomics in this country anymore. Why don't we have one? And that's some serious problem. We're working on this seriously in the United Left. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u159	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u160	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will not support the proposed minister. I won't support her for any more reasons. Finally, I am surprised, even to this day, by the Secretary of State, the President of the Government and now the leader of the SMC Group of Members say that the numbers do not lie. You're talking about I don't know what economic growth is, that in Slovenia, honey and milk flow. Then I wonder why, as a government, you have consistently increased the value added tax. Why did you freeze the use of the budget in the month of August if such numbers are such as that of economic growth? Why not harmonise pensions for 2017 and increase pensions if this is economic growth and such brilliant results? If those were the results, I'd expect it not to be done. I believe here that there are some empty words again, deception, but the actual situation is different. So my support mags. She's not getting a crowbar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u161	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We decide on the following decision: The Minister of Finance is called Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 21. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 21.]] I'm guessing he's a mag. Matthew Vraničar Erman appointed Minister of Finance. I congratulate the Minister of Government on her appointment and wish her a successful discharge of her duties. I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u162	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u163	Does the Minister of Finance want to speak in front of the National Assembly? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u164	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House. First of all, I would like to thank you for the confidence you have shown me with your appointment as Minister of Finance. I am aware that I take charge at a very sensitive time when expectations are enormous. Real opportunities need to be assessed from day to day. As I have sworn, I will work hard with all my work and my team for the well-being of Slovenia, its inhabitants and its inhabitants. Thank you so much again for trusting me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u165	I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the bill on collective management of copyright and related rights. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC DeSUS and SD to Article 14. We're voting. The 66 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 50 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 35. We're voting. The 69 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 51 votes against 0. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 45. We're voting. The 70 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 14 votes in favour and 50 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 46. We're voting. The 70 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 52 votes in favour and 0 votes against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 77. There are 72 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour and 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 79. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 50. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 81. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended this by voting on the amendments. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Štravs, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, on the basis of an explanation of the non-conformity of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have found that the draft law, due to the amendments adopted, to an individual article at the meeting of the home working body and in the National Assembly, is to some extent inconsistent. Therefore, I inform you that the Government will prepare and submit to the National Assembly a harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u167	The National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item tomorrow, Thursday, 22. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Consumer Credits. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a consumer credit law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Economy as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation on the Secret Trade Investment Agreements TTIP and CETA. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to point 1. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 47. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to Point 2. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 42. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to point 4. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 41. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to point 5. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the 7th point. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 47. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
