ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2424	...respected delegates, respected excellencies, respected representatives of information funds, I welcome you all and I want you to enjoy the fruitful work of this Parliament with us today and I am opening the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to inform you that 13 delegates are present today, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 3 from the Serb people, Mr Milojević and Mr Radović are justly absent. Before we move to the agenda, I would like to inform you that it is in accordance with Article 95(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH has been rejected. Since the joint commission of both homes has not reached agreement. You've all received a report from the commission in your material. Thank you. For the 22nd session, I suggest the next agenda. You received the agenda in a call. This morning, we had a little change of agenda at the College session, so I'm going to read you the proposed agenda, which is: 1. A record of the 20th and 21st sessions of the House of Peoples; 2nd. Legislative questions and answers; 3. A report by the People's House on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Foreign Trade Policy of BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 4. Declaration by the People's House on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute of Measurement, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples; 5. A statement by the People's House on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing an Institute for Standardisation of BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 2 6. Declaration by the People's House on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing an Institute of Intellectual Property under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 7. Declaration by the People's House on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the BiH Customs Policy Act, following an urgent procedure under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People’s House; 8 / 8 Request for a discussion of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration, as referred to in Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 9. Request to consider the BiH Statistics Bill proposal, under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we've now made at the point of the 10th we've made one change and now we have as the tenth point 10. Proposal for a law on BiH police services, first reading; 11. Proposal for a law on work in BiH institutions, first reading 12. Proposal for a law on BiH's judicial exam, first reading; 13. Proposal for the Budget of the BiH institution and international commitments for 2004, first reading; 14. Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the International Obligations of BiH for 2004, first reading; 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, Second Reading; 16. Review of the report of the Office for the Audit of Financial Business and Institutions of BiH in the 2002 audit carried out: (a) the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, (b) the Presidency, (c) the Constitutional Court of BiH, (e) the BiH Council of Ministers, (f) the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, (d) the Harold of Human Rights of BiH, (h) the Ministry of BiH's Ministry of Statistics, (j) the Ministry of European Integration of BiH, (k) the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH, (l) the Ministry of Customs Affairs of BiH, (m) the Centre for the Removal of Mines of BiH, (n) the Office for Common Affairs of BiH, (j) the State Border Service of BiH, (p) the Regulatory Agency for the Communication of BiH, (q) the BiH Election Commission of BiH, (f) the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, (t) the Directorate for Civil Aviation of BiH, in BiH, in BiH, in BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH) the Institute for the Institute for the Im.) the Anti-M.) the Anti-C, BiH, BiH Institute for the Anti-C. 17. Business report for the 2003 Financial Audit Office; 18. Discussion: (a) Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2003, (b) Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2003, 19. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the European patent organisation on the co-operation of petitioners; 20. Giving consent to ratification of the trade and economic co-operation agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Swiss Federal Council; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the transport of passengers and cargo; 22. The conclusions of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House on information provided by the Ministry of Security in connection with the balar and problem in the dairy industry in BiH. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda and I'm asking for delegates, is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2425	Dear colleagues, the presidency, I propose that today's agenda be complemented by a group of laws, which are related to the work of the Agency for Investigation and Protection, which were to be adopted by 31 March, in line with the deadline, which is in the action plan for meeting the obligations of the Physibility Study adopted by the Council of Ministers and this parliamentary assembly. The law group was discussed by the competent commissions and jointly for defence and security and the competent commissions in both homes, and the House of Representatives had already considered one part of these laws in the first reading, and some even adopted in both readings. For these reasons, I suggest that the 11th point of today's agenda be the draft law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. 12th Point Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection, 13. Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering, 14. A New World Translation of God’s Kingdom, 1 / 15 The draft law amending the law on the criminal procedure of BiH, therefore, this is my unique proposal and I ask the delegates to declare themselves on this proposal, of course all of these laws in the first reading, and if this supplement is adopted, certain laws could set out to adopt them at today's session and in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2426	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Spasojević. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2427	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, as far as the agenda is concerned, I would have one procedural remark on him, which is about this ten-point agenda of the Bill on Police Officers of BiH's first reading. I don't mind that he goes today, but these amendments Mr. Limov filed, they won't be able to go according to the Rules of Procedure, which we have, means, or to extend the time to amend Mr. Limov before the commission or to take off this item of the agenda, so that we do both the first and second readings. This is not how it can be done in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2428	Thank you very much. I owe, here, on behalf of, I'll say freely in the name of the College. What Mr. Genjac suggested, we were considering today, and we agreed at the College that this was going to be held at the session, which we were going to hold on May 4, because today we thought that our agenda was too widespread, and that, yes, and on May 4, we would have had just one, possibly two points, so we thought we'd take this assembly and we agreed that what Genjac had now suggested we put on the agenda for the 4th, and we had already done that agenda for session 4 and that, according to us, was included in the College for the 4th session. What Mr. Spasojević was saying, there was a little accident here with our colleague Lim's amendments. His amendments and if they came to protocol on time, however, they didn't, at all, reach the commission from that protocol. We have such information and the joint commission of both homes submitted its report to the House of Representatives without Mr Limov's amendments and thus passed the law in both readings. We wanted to go to the College and we think it was a mistake and we wanted our colleague Limov not to be denied for his proposals, not to come into one, not to be in one unpleasant position. We have said that today we will accept and try, I think it is possible under the Rules of Procedure, to adopt this law in the first reading, but to ask, or to ask the Joint Commission to hold a session and to consider Mr Lim's amendments, and to propose whether amendments are accepted and to determine according to these amendments and to come before this House with its proposal, and then we would discuss this in the second reading, at one of the next sessions, and that would be at the session of May 4th. I beg you, here we have found a foothold in this Article 90th point of our third Rules of Procedure and we have taken advantage of that possibility and we have come to this and we have found this solution. So I ask that you, please, respect this explanation of me, so we have thought about all the suggestions, so the College has also thought about what it was saying, proposed by Mr. Genjac and what Mr. Limov intervened and here is the talk of our colleague, Mr. Spasojević, and we think that this is a good solution for this Parliament, to go normal and to work normally and well. Thank you. Do we have any further objections, Mr. Genjac? 5
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2429	So, I accept the argument and I am pleased that the College has put it in the May 4th session, or May 5th, because the deadlines are really late. March 31st was the deadline for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2430	Thank you very much. Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2431	If you believe me, I don't understand how you found it in article 93 below 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2432	Just, you know, leafed out and found it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2433	Here I am reading that Article 90th paragraph 3 and I don't understand that you found it, but if you think it's possible, I probably know you three more than I do, I accept that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2434	Thank you very much, since the gentleman accepts, you don't have to read. Mr Filipović. Here, you have the word, you were the first. I'm sorry, Filipović. Please, these buttons are confusing me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2435	I hope that these buttons will not be confusing in the future, I am taking the opportunity to welcome the chairperson and distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Mozer and all the others present, and I have one question, and on this issue, or with an answer, I may also have a proposal. I'm not sure if I read the agenda right today. I did not notice in the agenda that there was a report, that a report on the achievement of an agreement on the same text of the Law on the importance of public documents in BiH was included. The way I saw it, it wasn't suggested. If I'm right, I suggest that this agenda be complemented, with the report, since the Commission on text alignment has been set up, it agrees on the text and we, in fact, could today, as far as our home is concerned, have this law adopted. We all got this report, I'm in front of a joint committee in charge of the Home report, so unless there are any specific obstacles, I think it would be a good idea to put this as a point, the third point of the agenda. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2436	Thank you. I'll try to answer what I know. We planned that part, we planned one point on May 21st, and please, since we say we're really at this point, I'll say, overbooked, I thought we'd keep one relationship, not to go in front of that home to some of our decisions. We respect that commission's views we're having, we think we're going to put it on agenda 21, but if it's absolutely necessary, then we're going to put it on May 4th as well to adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2437	I'm glad the College took care of this. But I want to say next. I don't see any reason why what the Joint Committee on Text Consensus has done about any law has done when she agreed to the text to postpone it and for what next session. I think that's what I should do, and I suggest, in that sense, the conclusion of the House, that it becomes automation. After the text-harvesting committee has reached an agreement, the second thing is when it does not reach it, and when it is achieved, we will automatically include it in the first ordinary session, no matter how extensive, because you know well that it is a matter of two minutes. We've spent more now to discuss this point than to adopt a point, and that's how we get the whole law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2438	Thank you very much. I'm begging Mr Filipović. Look, Filipović, I wanted to give you a point, but Limov's is up first. Please excuse me. I apologize to you. I have to, I don't see well, it says here...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2439	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome all participants of today's session, and I would also like to make a statement, and in connection with this point that was spoken of by Mr. Spasojević. In fact, I sent 31.03. to the committee responsible for my amendment. Unfortunately, it's obvious from the intelligence that they didn't get those amendments. I personally agree with the variant that today, in accordance with Article 89(2), which I have been invited to and renewed my amendments, to go from it as if the commission had not accepted, so, as far as I am concerned, I support the College's proposal to hold a debate today in the first reading, and that the possibility for the commission to, possibly, be made known by 4 if it is missing, I, too, have the opportunity and this House has the opportunity to respect my amendments in our second reading debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2440	Thank you very much. Mr Filipović, if you respect my apology and for my poor handling of these posters, I beg you not to be angry and here I expect your word. Here we go again. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2441	I welcome all my colleagues, all those present who follow our work. Very short. Nothing special, I would argue that we respect the position of the College, which I think is a fellow Genjac and accepted and absolutely support what Mr. Čengić said. It's pointless that something that has already been agreed, which has been practically passed, all we need to do is raise a hand for these legal projects to be waiting for us. So, I support that...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2442	Thank you very much. I think we've exhausted the debate on the agenda, and here I'm going to suggest that we adopt Mr. Hasan Čengić's proposal, put it on the agenda and put it as item 3 and that agenda, that point would be called. Report on the alignment of the Joint Commission on the law on public documents. Now the secretary will share the report again and, therefore, we are now going to vote. Who's for the proposed agenda, with the change given by Mr Hasan Čengić? Who's in? Can we do it again? I'm asking you to vote. Who's in? We can conclude that the draft agenda has received the majority and that it has been adopted in terms of votes as it has been said, it seems that I have earlier opposed it. Thank you very much. Ad.1. A record of the 20th and 21st sessions, please, you've received the records. Any objections to the records? As far as I can tell, he's gone. Is that why we're adopting the protocols? We're voting now. Who's for the record, now? We'll do it again. I'm wrong. Excuse me. First we vote for the minutes. Who's to adopt the protocols? Now. I would now say that this is unanimous of those who are present, everyone voted. Šiljegović is missing, but I was missing a little while ago. Thank you very much. We passed this law unanimously. Ad.2. Delegate questions and answers If we have, we have answers to the delegate questions received by Mr. Jukić two answers and Vinko Radovanović one answer. 8 I ask Mr. Jukić if he is satisfied with the answer to the delegate's questions. Here is Mr. Jukić, not pleased and he wants to discuss his delegate issues. Okay, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2443	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues, MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community and gentlemen journalists, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked a few questions. One of them was addressed to the Regulatory Agency for Communications, a shortened RAC, I asked five questions, and I got an answer that I'm not happy with at all. The answer not only isn't complete and precise, but it's very general, and in some parts it's such that it would be better if I didn't get it. Why am I saying this? Now I'm going to say and explain. My first question was what national blindness was, the composition of the employees at the Communications Regulatory Agency, and especially the management staff. I expected in response to this question, an important question, and I didn't ask it for no reason, because I have some information, not entirely, that it wasn't balanced national jaundice of employees in this agency, an important agency, as well as that there was no balanced national representation in the management staff. And in response, it's said that's not what's being taken care of. That's not what you need. Which is contrary to Article 9(3) of our BiH Constitution, which says. That officials placed in positions in BiH institutions will reflect the general composition of the peoples of BiH. I think the answer in this part is so bad, yes, I wouldn't even comment on it any further, and that's why I think it's necessary and I'm going to do it, I'm going to renew this question. I don't know if the people at the Agency, the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, feel that they are responsible, answer this question. The last sentence in this letter, sent to me by the Council of Ministers, says the answers were delivered, received from the Regulatory Agency and transferred in full. So, without comment, and therefore I do not hold the Council of Ministers responsible directly for such a poor response not entirely, but it is responsible to address the same institution again, to get a complete and complete and correct answer. Further questions in this one broader question with questions are also neither precise nor complete. The true part of the question may not have been answered precisely so far, such as How much total revenues were the Agency in 2003, but since it is already at the end of the fourth month, I believe that this reason that this report is being brought to an end, I think that this reason does not exist, and I believe that this issue could have been answered correctly and fully. The next question was the salaries of the employees. And this is very interesting that the wages here are again not listed how much they are, of course, and if it was most logical to expect in answer to say what it is to pay, but to ask the question of pay. But it is generally said that salaries in the last two years have been reduced twice. They were probably too small, so reducing further, and more interesting, the media is not interested in such topics at all, very interesting. And the salaries of MPs have been top of the topic for the last few years I don't know how many years, very interesting. Let's just go for information, and let's check it out, I would like the media to be interested, too, I have information that the salaries are significantly higher than the salaries of 9 MPs, very interesting, with all due respect and I appreciate that the important job that this agency is doing is doing, I don't think it's more responsible and more important for this country than it is for MPs in this Parliament, and it would be very interesting to compare salaries in the Agency with wages in some other sectors or institutions of this state. The other two questions were whether the Agency consistently respected all relevant laws of this country, especially the Communication Act, but I would not comment on that either. It is said here that they are consistently respected, for now I will believe it. There was also a question of whether certain amendments and additions to the BiH Communication Law were being prepared, which is very interesting. Here I was particularly referring to the part about the management and management of this agency, given its very large and important powers, and I believe that this is very important, and in the existing law certain solutions are such that they will need to be given their opinion on some matters of staff and this parliamentary assembly, so it will be an opportunity for us to talk a little bit more. I hope that by that time I will have both quality and complete answers to these questions I have asked myself. The second question I got the answer was the CIPS project, and it said. Until when, by which date we can expect to complete the replacement of existing documents, new documents according to the CIPS project. I got the answer that it's probably the end of the year. I will take the opportunity here and invite all the responsible people to realize this project, to be even more responsible and to find ways to speed this up, for the reason that everyone is known to be already since 1.1 o.g. can cross the state border with the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, while presenting this new identity card. So, with that old man, he can't. Then you need a passport. And I think this is important, to speed up this process and end it as soon as possible, especially in the BiH border municipalities. Why the border? Because there is an objectively greater need for these people from their daily needs to communicate with their neighbourhood, even if it was separated by the state border, to communicate more often and to cross the state border, and therefore I'm surprised that the responsible people in the CIPS project don't account for it, here for example I'm going to say here, it says here that by some date, from a month ago, there's a commitment to this project by 85% of the population of BiH, and here's the space from which I come to the Western Herzegovina County, the coverage is about 60%, with two border municipalities from this area not yet covered by the CIPS project. I don't know why. I don't understand it, and here's a call, or a proposal or a call any way you want, to be responsible for the CIPS, to really speed this up and really allow people to change these documents as soon as possible and another reason to speed up, is that they would be known to replace documents that point out or young people who make new documents when they turn 18 or those who get the right to have a driver's license, etc. Then one cost should be taken out today by the old one, and for, I don't know, in a month or three, or by the end of the year, the dead will have a new cost, replace that document that's several months old with a new document from the CIPS project. I believe that here the responsibility of the people who follow and organise this project is large and should be more responsible to the citizens to ensure that they have as little cost as possible and to extract these documents new, according to the new CIPS project. 10 Here, these were my comments to these answers and I believe that the Council of Ministers will make an additional effort and ensure that I get a better answer to my question, the first thing about the Regulatory Agency for Communications, and I will repeat my first question. So, what is national representation, the composition of employees at the CRA Regulatory Agency, and especially of the management staff? I expect a full answer. I don't know if it's forbidden to ask, if it's a secret, let it answer, it's a secret, I'll take that into account. Furthermore, I also consider that there should be no secret, of course there should be no secret, of course, that there should not be too much bid on this either, but, however, I believe that the Council of Ministers' obligation to answer the whole question of the MPs. Expecting full and correct answers, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2444	Here's Mr. Vinko Radovanović had it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2445	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I also had one question and I am satisfied with the answer. It is clear from the answer that in a concrete case there have been violations of the Law in the use and protection of the name BiH and I only hope that the authorities, the institutions, will sanction it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2446	Thank you very much. Here we have exhausted the part called the answers to the parliamentary questions and now we have parliamentary questions. I think Mr. Genjac called, at least he's standing right here on this one, you're not. Then Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2447	Dear gentlemen, presidents and esteemed colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of BiH, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the international community and public information funds, I will use this opportunity to ask two questions. I went out because I certainly have to deliver questions to the Professional Service in writing. So, by welcoming you all together, I would like to ask the Council of Ministers: First, whether, and what, when and in what way does the Council of Ministers plan to take action with the aim of establishing a specialised state institution for the accommodation and treatment of persons with permanent 11 mental difficulties, which have continued medical and psychosocial supervision of medical and social need and obligation? Second question. Do you and what, when and in what way does the Council of Ministers plan to take action with the aim of establishing a state criminal and correctional institution for the accommodation, education, education and rehabilitation of minors? My first question today is not about persons who are from the courts concerned, because of the criminal offence committed, and are found to have been punished, and last year we found that the conditions in which they are located, for example in the Women's Penal Institute in the Department of Forensics, are not suitable for such a category of people who support punishment, but for those persons with psychological difficulties, who did not commit a crime, but are an objective and potential danger to themselves and their environment. According to some data, they have been published in various media outlets in the previous days, and there are over 300 people in Sarajevo alone, and no one is sure about the number in the BiH area. Our country needs to do this systematically, humanely and civilizedly for the sake of its own interest and for the sake of international obligations on the protection of human rights, and it is most appropriate to do so through the establishment of an appropriate institution. My second question concerns the need to build a state criminal and correctional institution for the accommodation, education, education and rehabilitation of minors. The recent unfortunate and tragic event that took place in Brcko where two minors tired one helpless old woman, for every normal government and state, should be an alarming signal for the organised and effective action of the relevant state bodies, for the rapid establishment of institutions in which juvenile delinquents will be located. I think, first of all, that it is necessary to set it up so that we have institutions that will act preventively, because once something that we characterise as evil happens, then there are other organs on the scene, and not us who at this stage can and should initiate appropriate activities. Unfortunately, the above example from Brcko is not lonely and we are subject to a more and more pronounced problem of minors who are in violation of the law, who are linked to different vices, if alcoholism, drug abuse, prostitution, trafficking of women and children, and organised and rarely transnational crime is a multiple adverse and dangerous phenomenon, with which the BiH state must be rapidly and effectively tackled and decided to fight against it, in accordance with European standards and practices of modern democratic countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2448	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Do we have anyone else who's answering their word for the delegates' questions? There's no one here. Thank you very much. We'll move on to the third item of the agenda now. 12 Ad.3. A statement by the Joint Commission on reaching an agreement on the common text of the law on the importance of public documents in BiH That is the question, that is the item of the agenda, which we have complemented on Mr Čengić's proposal. You've all received a report and I'd like to ask you to vote on this report. Who's in favor of accepting the report? Thank you very much. We voted. From this table I see here in front of me, a unanimous report has been accepted. Thank you very much. Ad.4. A report by the People's House on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act, amending the Law on Foreign Trade Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure, is therefore under discussion in Article 99 whether the law will be discussed under a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law. Here's to the agenda. Is anyone picking up? As far as I can tell, there are no debaters. I propose that we vote if we accept the Council of Ministers' request on this law, that we conduct this law, we do it by emergency procedure, by a reduced procedure just to vote. Who's in? And here this scheme says that we voted unanimously and, therefore, the law will be considered by point 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Now this is the fifth item of the agenda. Ad.5. A report by the People's House on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the establishment of an Institute of Measurement, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples So, the House of Representatives has, too, accepted all this to be guided by, to shorten the deadlines and, here I am putting on the discussion of this point of the agenda. Is anyone picking up? He's not answering. Who is it that we accept this measuring law by a brief procedure? Who's in? So we adopted this unanimously, too. Thank you. Ad.6. A report by the People's House on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law establishing the BiH Standardisation Institute, by emergency procedure, under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the House of Representatives, adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law and put an end to the debate. Who is it that we are considering this law in accordance with Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? 13 Who's in? Here's where the table says it's the same thing. So we unanimously passed this law. Thank you, colleagues. Now it's the 7th point of the agenda. Ad.7. The House of People's report on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing an Institute of Intellectual Property, also to consider the urgent procedure The House of Representatives considered this as an emergency procedure and made a decision to consider, namely, a decision to consider the urgent procedure. Is there a discussion? There isn't. I'm putting it to a vote. Are we going to discuss this law, which speaks of intellectual property, according to an emergency procedure? Who's for So and here we unanimously adopted this item of the agenda. Ad.8. The implementation of the House of People on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Customs Policy Act, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the House of Representatives, accepted that this law was passed per member, that this law should be discussed in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm putting the agenda on the table. I don't see any discussion. Who is it to adopt that the BiH Customs Policy Act is being discussed by the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, under Article 99? Who's in? Thank you very much. I think it'll be unanimous again. Ad.9. Request for a discussion of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration, as referred to in Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure, the House decides that the law should be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. Article 100(3) The House of Representatives passed the law by emergency procedure. I'm opening a debate. There's no debate. Who is it that the request for a review of the Amendment Law and the additions of the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration is discussed under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? So this part of the agenda was adopted unanimously. Adopted unanimously. All right. 14 Who is now for the adoption of this law? Who's in? So a total of 12 for. So 12 for one abstention. Ad.10. Request to consider the BiH Statistics Bill proposal, under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples decide, the House of Nations decides on the requirement to consider the law in accordance with this article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. The House of Representatives adopted the Act of Emergency Procedure. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering for raps. When is the law to be considered by Article 100(2)? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Who's in? Thank you very much. - 11 for, what is this, well, 2 abstentions - 11 for. Thank you very much. So now we're going, we're discussing the law now. Is anyone answering for a hearing? Thank you, no one. Who is it to pass this law? Who's in? - 12 for one abstention. Thank you very much. Don't rush Limov. When I say so, then. Ad.11. The proposal for a law on BiH police officers Here we will remain only at first reading for the reasons we explained when we talked about the agenda. I'm begging you, who's answering for your word? As far as I can see, Limov, this is not working well for you. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2449	I appreciate, having in my ear everything that preceded this, that I should say a few words, in order to give my fellow Members honest attention when they read the amendments, provided that the commission doesn't, and that I can repeat it and defend it at our next session of the 4th or 5th, as you said. So on the occasion of the second reading. I personally give full support to the adoption of such a law, and I appreciate that it will be the basis for implementing police reform in the BiH area. Of course, as far as the constitutional foundation is concerned, I was therefore also on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and on the ground, the very fact that the adoption of this law will allow for the strengthening of democratic principles, the rule of law in this important area throughout the BiH state. I, therefore, am without a dilemma in favour of such a commitment. And, in addition to respecting this law, this is an extraordinary basis for the adoption of one such regulation that will allow police officers in the entire Yugoslavia to come into a very different position and for all of us to get one police system, a different, more efficient, more effective, with 15 installation of certain democratic standards, with appropriate obligations under the relevant international conventions. However, I do appreciate that there is no, of course, ideal law, and in this I have noticed certain things that I believe should be an integral part of the content of the law and through this I have pointed out in the amendments and given these facts, given that I will have the opportunity to talk about the content of the amendments at the next session, I will now just taxively draw attention to what I consider to be not sufficiently or adequately entered into the content of this law. First, it is not properly regulated by the status of administrative and police officers, who are not acted and do not have police powers in terms of arrest, but are working on jobs without which there is no successful police activity. It's about jobs like crime techniques, like different art, etc. where we need them, among other things and other sciences, and, if we leave out the way and use the opportunity to install this law in one systematic way, and that is not properly regulated in other regulations at any other level, I appreciate, therefore, that it is very important for this element to enter and be an integral part of the law. Furthermore, the possibility of temporary deprivement of freedom has been left out to prevent the execution of a criminal offence or, for example, the concealment of evidence, etc. what is important in the process itself and the business of police activity. Furthermore, there is not enough precise notion of search and it is not tied to eviction, which can be of different character etc. I appreciate, therefore, that in one very simple way this can be fixed. It's not exactly the police's right to stop a moving person, it's to stop a moving vehicle. So it's possible that a person, if they're practically running away, they can't do anything, because it's not precise, I don't see any reason not to install it. Furthermore, no specific action of the helicopter unit, based on specific conditions of operation of this unit and in relation to that on the relevant rights, was provided for only one amendment, unless it was fully resolved in two or three amendments, we simply will not have that solution, and no one should be assured that, for example, we will not have a solution. State Border Service and SIP, for example, should have that possibility, now there are helicopter units but in entity police. I appreciate, therefore, that in one expensive law this should be specified in terms of their rights, and according to standards and these solutions are offered. Furthermore, there are no decided provisions on the obligation to agree within a certain period of time with this state law entities, then cantonal, Brcko District law, I appreciate that this should be specified in the level of our desire that, after the adoption of this law, this year, it will be, in fact, years of starting reforms, because that is why it should and the proposal is specified to happen by the end, that is, this year, so that there are no formal obstacles to the implementation of the reform in this segment. Here, I, therefore, taxed these things, which I appreciate is worth considering and needs to find solutions in an appropriate way to be an integral part of the content of the law. When I spoke about the status of the police themselves, therefore, I personally appreciate that this status is properly regulated in the whole area, in other words both with regard to certain benefits and with regard to certain rights relating to 16 salaries, etc. What I have given specific reasons for what I have given the appropriate indications in the amendments themselves, and of course, to the extent that it is necessary to talk about another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2450	Thank you very much, Mr. Limov. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Jukić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2451	Well, here, I am not going to talk about the content of these amendments, but about one procedure, a procedure, which should now be followed to give these amendments a chance to be equal with those with whom they were supposed to be in the beginning equal, and these are the ones which in time the representative delivered to the competent commission, etc. and we know if we don't get that back into the commission phase now, that these amendments, without entering their content, even I appreciate that they're also high-quality, have no chance of being adopted very little. Why? Because there's been a commission phase without them. Now they could, the truth enter, be adopted in our home, and this is once again a chance smaller, because there should be a consensus and at best if they are adopted in our home, then there follows the harmonisation of different texts of the laws in two homes and there is a chance to pass relatively small etc. and that is why I believe that we need to conclude that these amendments are to return to the Commission, that we ask the President of the Commission, the President of the Commission, to give ourselves additional effort, it is not his fault that this situation has taken place and that they call back on the Joint Commission for Security to consider these amendments and then give a new report, is it, how it goes in our Rules of Procedure, and we are not to blame for that and to deliver the question to this House is how, because they have completed the overall procedure. Because, you see, this is one situation, which, in fact, gives very little chance of amendments being incorporated into the final text of the law. What to do, I think that we should take up the right of our colleague, that his amendments be treated properly and equally with all the other amendments, because in time he delivered, and because of someone else's mistake, etc. There's been a situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2452	Thank you very much. Radovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2453	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with my colleague Jukić that we should allow colleagues to come to the commission. However, there is a problem that the joint commission, the House of Representatives commission and the House of Peoples, and the House of Representatives has already passed the law. How now the commission discusses these amendments and that the members of that House of Representatives have already passed this law. I think there's one problem. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2454	Thank you very much. There is one problem here. I named him when we were talking about the agenda. This is one situation, in my opinion, that was caused by sloppy work. However, regardless of this, this House, namely, BiH Parliament must find a way out of it and must not bring any MPs in the position to make its amendments, that its amendments do not have equal treatment. I think the commission, I hope, and we'll ask the commission and I think we'll agree that by Friday at the latest, by the 4th and the 4th session will come out with the minutes, to our session and to make a decision on Mr Lim's amendments. There's one more thing I need to tell you. This House, this House, does not have to accept the committee's views. This home can pass the law as well as many times so far in different texts, and then we will choose one commission, which will bring these texts into line and find a good solution. This is just so much, here's to knowing that we know and get out, and to be aware that we have to get out of the trouble that we're going to get into because of, come on, I'm going to say, either unplanned or sloppy or negligent or negligent or whatever you want. However, it is our job to find a solution and here we are trying to find it this way and I think it is appropriate to this home, to tell these people that they can also look for solutions from difficult situations. Thank you very much. Mr. Spasojević wanted to say a few words, the president of the commission, who discussed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2455	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, here I am, first of all, to say that it is not only Mr. Llimov's amendments, but there is also Mr. Šiljegović has submitted one amendment, I do not know if we will discuss it too? And as for Mr Lim's amendments, first of all, we must, as Mr Jukić said, we must conclude that we must discuss these amendments again on the commission. And here, as I got from Mr. Lim, he didn't even call on these amendments to go to the commission, he called on Article 89(2), which is to defend directly from home and so we got into this material that we have. Furthermore, by reviewing these amendments, I have found that we have discussed almost all these amendments, except three, the word of temporary deprivement of freedom. Amendment V person and, instead of the IPTF to... we discussed all these amendments to Mr. Joz Križanović, he had all these amendments and we rejected them. So I don't know if for this, for these three amendments, how to resolve and the rest of us, we've had enough and we've turned them down. I've been through it, and I've seen that it's about the same amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2456	Please, nice. I accept, I will now say it very publicly in front of this house. I accept that through other amendments to others you have discussed the content that Mr Lim's amendments also treat, but it is evident that the amendments of Mr 18 Lim have not come to the commission and no one has the right to challenge the MP to come to the relevant committee. That's what happened to Mr. Limov and that's right, that's the fact, that's the truth. Now we're getting out of this situation and it's important to me. How to get out of this situation, so our colleague Limov doesn't feel that someone deliberately escipated him, I'm sorry, I'll tell you now, I have to tell you why. Well, Mr. Limov is one of the few MPs here from the opposition, that we won't feel anyone or that someone is thinking about it, that Mr. Limov was deliberately escipated. This home has to be clearly defined, and this is a solution for me. To take Mr Lim's amendments, let the commission propose to this home that all amendments of Mr Limov be rejected, Limov further has the right to discuss his amendments and to open the discussion and to have the House decide. However, we must respect that part and it must go through parliamentary procedure, or through the institutions of Parliament. Thank you. Mr. Limov, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2457	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand you're defending actually the height of the MPs of this house and it has no personal connotation. In that sense, my personal assessment is that I did well, Mr. Spasojević, referring to this article 89. I don't see at all the need to return to the Joint Commission for the reason that this commission isn't, probably responsible. I've learned that the College has taken a stand to see what the Garresh was in here and I personally take it as a particular sadification. I propose that we adopt the law today in the first reading, and that I have the possibility, in line with today's repeated amendments, of defending them at House 4 and thus going out without questioning the commission itself, without regard to the content of Mr. Spasojević's speech.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2458	Thank you very much for your understanding, Mr. Limov, and first of all Halid Genjac came forward, Halid wrote down when he entered this room.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2459	Just to contribute a little bit, I'm a member of the other committee. We had Mr Lim's amendments ahead of us on the commission, as well as Mr Križanović's amendments. I understand that these are the same amendments and that Mr Lim's amendments have not been considered for these reasons. We realized, at least I had two groups of amendments filed two delegates from one home, and one from another home, so that, therefore, I had these amendments to Mr Lim's text of amendments that he had submitted before him. I don't know where the problem is, and I think it's all right to invite a member to defend amendments that aren't accepted. At least that's how I realized that they weren't discussed on the committee for that reason because they were the same amendments and that we should get over this. So, these two or three amendments, if we adopt them, will be in front of the Joint Commission a harmonised and resolved problem. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2460	Mr Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2461	Thank you very much. I'd like to contribute and I'd like this to be resolved. Therefore, it is indisputable and we must safeguard the integrity of any representative who has placed the amendments in due time within a certain time limit to the competent commission. So here we have the truth that it has been done and at the same time we have here and the chairman of the committee of both homes and committee members. I would personally like to know whether the chairman of the commission has made an adaptation to Mr Lim's amendment, because he can make a selection, because he is running the Rules of Procedure session and he decides whether they are identical or not to those amendments, so whether he or he is a respected colleague of Genjac, that is one question. The second question, I would like to see Mr. Križanović's amendments, if he had them, as I would like to believe what Mr. Genjac is saying and that maybe we should take a break to compare both amendments and see if it really is in exactly the same text, then it's funny to ask the Joint Commission to re-read the amendments that she eventually refused, but it still does not exclude Mr. Lim's right to make amendments in an indirect way, so the text of his amendments discussed there that he tried to defend them here in the House. So it does not exclude his right, but this comparison of one and the other amendments by Mr. Križanović and Mr. Lim would give us a much clearer picture of what it is, whether it was necessary to move away or not at the debate of a joint commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2462	Thank you very much. Here I have another proposal to get out of this. hasane, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2463	So, very briefly. I have to admit, this is a very rare situation. It is particularly rare and unclear for people who have not been present and who have not participated in the work of this committee. So, these joint commissions. Now, if I had to decide what happened, I'd have a few questions. I, however, want to try to understand only one thing. Did the Joint Commission specifically debate and take any position on Mr Lim's amendments? I beg you, if his amendments have not been mentioned and they have not been discussed, then the matter is clear to me, the bond of further comparison. They must be considered. I propose for this reason, not because Mr Lim is a member of the opposition, but because he is a member of the House, because in that house we are all equal, equal and we have the same right to be treated in time. I suggest that we conclude in the following way, just as Mr Limov suggested, that we not go with the request to the joint commission, but that on the second reading, Mr Limov has the opportunity to explain his amendments and that the House be determined. 20 If it happens that the House accepts some of the amendments to that reading, which was not adopted at another home, then we will go to the consent. I love it if it happens. If it doesn't happen, then we have nothing. I think it's the only way, and there's no need for us to carry on any tension about it or anxiety, and on the other hand, it would be good for the technical reasons to determine whether these amendments have been officially delivered to the commission and if they're not, just for the sake of the future, otherwise, not for the sake of the past. So I don't think we should waste any more time over these discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2464	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. Mr Bošoko Šiljegović came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2465	Here, since I've been calling for the first time, I'd like to say hello. Here today sits the president of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, the first deputy to attend that session of the commission, member of the other. Absent were justified Mr. Brka and Mr. Ante Spaić. I am responsible for saying that Mr. Tomislav Lim's amendments were in no form whatsoever, Halide perhaps you are in the loop, here is the amendment of Mr. Momčilo Novaković, here is Mr. Šefik Džaferović's amendment and here is Mr. Joza Križanović's amendment. In total, there were 20 amendments on the Commission. The commission's session was held on 20.4. and adopted on the joint commission of 10 amendments. I'm saying that the amendment to Tomislav Limov's joint commission had no form whatsoever. I found them at the club today that they were protocold on March 21st or 17th is significant 31st, etc. In the direction of short story, Mr Čengić's most acceptable proposal, given that I have tabled one amendment in agreement with the representatives of the proposings and the OHR, is likely to be adopted immediately in a different text and we will be forced to form a committee to bring the text of the law into line and for this reason we can take Mr Lim's amendments into account, safeguarding the dignity of our colleague and agree all this in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2466	Thank you very much. I think this is reasonable and we could say that we adopt this law in our first reading, and that in the second reading, Mr. Limov has the right and has the right to defend his amendments in front of this house. Who is it to adopt this law in the first reading? Who's in? Now. Thank you, here's unanimous, and please, we're going to have to vote on that, too. Whoever it is that Mr. Limov doesn't need it. Thank you very much. It's all right. Let's just make it a democracy. 21 Ad.12. Proposal for a labour law in BiH institutions, first reading This is the first reading of the law, article 90, you received the law as well as a report from the competent commission. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed the law in the proposed text at the 33rd session, held on 14.4. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling for a discussion? Niko. Who is it to adopt the draft law on working in BiH institutions in the first reading? Who's in? Thank you very much. I agree that we unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on the work of BiH institutions. I suggest we discuss this law in a second reading. There was no amendment to this law. Is anyone picking up? As far as I can tell, no one's answering. So now we're voting for the law. Who's to pass the labour law, so here's the promoter won't say anything, let's adopt this. Who is it to adopt this law on the work of BiH institutions? Who's in? Now. So we passed the law unanimously in the same text as the House of Representatives. Thank you very much, colleagues. Ad.13. Proposal for a law on the conduct of a judicial exam in BiH, first reading This is the first reading of the law. You've received a bill as well as a report from the committee responsible, which adopted one amendment. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the law, also at the 33rd session, held on 14 April with seven amendments. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Niko one's answering for a word. Who is it to adopt this law in the first reading? Who's in? Now. As far as I can understand, and we've adopted this first reading of this law unanimously. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. There is a debate on amendments and a vote on the law. There were no new amendments. Is anyone answering their word? Niko one's answering for a word. I propose that we pass a law on the BiH judicial exam and in the second reading. Who's in? Now. Thank you very much. So, unanimously, we adopted this law in this text as proposed. The House of Representatives passed a law with seven amendments. We need to propose members, form a commission, and we need our home to propose three members of the commission to bring the text of the law into line. 22 Please, we are going in order from the Serbian people, Mr. Radovanović. From the ranks of the Croatian people, Mr. Spajić? Thank you very much. From the Bosniak people? Thank you very much, Mr. Neimarlija. Our proposal, therefore, is Mr. Šiljegović, Mr. Filipović and Mr. Neimarlija. Where Boško went, tell me to get in. Mr. Šiljegović, I am truly sorry that this parliament is unable to work without you. So the proposal was for this committee to agree on the text. Mr. Šiljegović, Mr. Filipović and Mr. Neimarlija. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you very much. We also adopted this committee. Now, my colleagues, please, I am particularly speaking to our friends from the Council of Ministers, that we are now going to do, since there will be serious debates about Budget, to take a break, and to make sure that you don't pass out, to prepare for this discussion, and that we, here, rest a little, and that as much as you think we need a break. Any suggestions? Is it enough for an hour? A lot. 45 minutes so people can have a decent lunch. ...on the 14th point of the agenda. [[PAUZA]] Ad.14. The BiH institution's proposal and international obligations for 2004 are being discussed. This is the first reading of the law, Article 99. You have received the Budget as well as a report from the committee responsible, which adopted two amendments to the Budget, which are identical to the amendments adopted at the House of Representatives. Since we're having a debate first, since we have fellow representatives of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance here, I think, here, let's hear them first. Then we should hear our commission immediately, which deals with this problem and we should open the debate. Thank you. I missed, Mr. Kumalić, Deputy Finance Minister. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2467	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs and others present, Speaking of Budget for this year, we must have one fact in mind that public spending in BiH is moving at 60%, which is not sustainable on the long term. Given that the cross of other countries, which are also in transition, as well as BiH, public spending ranges from 23 to 40 per cent. The cause of this high public consumption is not some high consumption, given that Budget is not performing its basic functions, the practical feature of the budget of all levels of state and entity and lower socio-political communities is that it is mainly carrying out fiscal commitments in a limited scope. Some budgets, but entityal, partly social, while the economic function, in fact, does not perform a single budget. It should be noted that Budget was adopted for this year at budget level, it is proposed at the level of the previous year, so it is planned for the financing of BiH institutions 211, 968,000 and for the service of the external debt of 266,600,000. It immediately falls into the eyes that this figure when it comes to serviceing external debt is much lower than the previous year, and this is the result of a low-cost colar, a low rate of dollars. Of which, the Federation wastes 166 million and RS 102 million in the settlement of these external commitments in 2004. The all planned budget for 2004, i.e. the budget proposal, is 480,568,000. To note, which is often not taken into account, the fundamental limit for the budgetary spending of BiH institutions in 2004 is the proportions established by the supplemental memorandum on economic and financial policies for BiH for 2003 and 2004. What's this about? So, the additional memorandum is related to the Stand Bay arrangement under which the IMF determines the total frameworks of public spending, translated into ordinary language, means that the budget rebalance for 2003, for the financing of BiH institutions, must be equal to the budget, the 2004 Budget Proposal. Entity transfers have increased, but only 4% as expected for GDP growth in 2004. We expect that there will be severe questions as to why he is late with the Budget. It's really awkward for both of us, to say the least, because Budget was supposed to be adopted in the previous year, so no later than December 2003. However, there are a number of factors, an additional memo of the session that worked the IMF ended on 18 December 2003, and without the IMF we simply are unable to give a draft budget. Furthermore, entity budgets were not adopted, so an agreement with entities on the financing of BiH institutions and the service of external debt was reached only in 4.2.2004. Taking into account these facts, then it will be seen that the Ministry of Finance really could not have done anything about it, as the Ministry of Finance of the Proposed Budget for 2004 had in September of the month, but it was due to pass these reconciliation procedures. When we talk about this proposal, let me point out that budget users were looking for significantly higher funds, so that their demands ranged 345.9 million, which is more than 134 million more than is allowed by the IMF's supplemental memorandum. I don't know, maybe it's best that with this practically one more time I repeat that this proposal we propose to Dom to adopt this proposal in both the first and second readings, and probably through the discussion, some specific questions will still be answered, that I don't speak anymore. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2468	Let's first adopt the law in the first reading, and let's vote on adopting the law in the first reading, and then move on to discussion by members, that is, to discuss amendments and specifically about the law. So I ask my colleagues to vote, to vote on whether we accept the BiH institutions' draft budget, to adopt it in the first reading. Who's in? We have this, the results of the vote – 11 for – 1 is retained. So we adopted this budget in the first reading. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to a debate on Budget and the members of the Budget, so I'd like to ask the commission, the president of the Commission, to state the views of our committee at home. Here you go, fellow Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2469	Mr President, fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I would like to say that we, debated at the Committee on Financial and Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples, which was held on 20.4. following the debate, adopted the draft of this budget with these two amendments, which have also been adopted at the House of Representatives and which have become an integral part of the proposal for this budget and I do not think we will discuss them. I believe that the chairman, Mr Pamuk, spoke about Mr Genjac's amendment, which later came and which was not discussed by the Commission and I don't know, will probably, when Mr Genjac gets his word and gives final explanation to his amendment, and there are representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives and the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance and they will respond to that amendment, and we are also here to finally give our word. As for the Budget itself and the gentleman who was in front of me, and he said that Budget had some limitations, which had to move within these limits only to me and put it on the Commission, and now I would like to set it up. I am a little concerned that these institutions that are new, which have been adopted at BiH level, that they have little budgets within their institutions and now, are probably some initial funds, as explained here, which they will later get, as explained to me by a lady from the economic profession, that these representatives should only get their own parties, and later they will supplement it, it is important that they have entered the distribution of Budgets, and later they would, in an adequate way, complement it. As far as this budget is concerned, I think at this point this and some real situation, which can't go much more, or much less, there aren't some items that weigh much, and we're defended as far as taking it from the entity budget itself, we're limited just so that we could take 4% more than we could take last 25 years, or on the basis of the budget rebalance from last year, so this budget proposal was made for this year 2004. The only remarks we had, and this is explained by the gentleman that, that we have a drastic delay in the budget this year and the reasons that can be justified for the delay of this budget, however, it must not be in the coming years, that we find the mechanism, which will find the possibility that any budget that should be adopted, in every normal country should be adopted by 31 December to enter into the next year with a familiar budget and familiar budget schedule, and we have said in our conclusions, in addition to these two amendments adopted in the House of Representatives, there are also, most of the votes supported this law, the Commission unanimously adopted amendments that have become an integral part of the text and, the Commission has also adopted the following conclusions with the draft budget: a) The Commission supports the conclusions of the BiH Presidency, which have been delivered with the draft budget of BiH and international commitments for 2004 and the implementation of the 2004 budget. b) The Commission recommends that additional funding be provided from the budget reserves for the financing of the work of the BiH institutions and the Office of Liaison Officers in The Hague to ensure that those institutions work in the necessary capacity. c) The Commission expresses its dissatisfaction and protest over late adoption, submission to the parliamentary procedure of the BiH Budget Proposal and international commitments for 2004 and the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the BiH Budget and International Obligations 2004 d). The Commission notes that the BiH Budget Proposal and the International Obligations for 2004 was made up of the principle of automation and previously acquired positions of individual institutions, e.g. CRA and other things that need to be changed. e) The Commission recommends that the transfer of individual entity competences to the BiH state, forming new attractive institutions respect the principle of rationality, so that the transfer of authorities from one to the other does not result in an increase, but rather a reduction in costs. f) The Komisja proposes to the House to oblige the Council of Ministers of BiH and to urgently, and by 30/09/2004 at the latest, draft and deliver to the parliamentary procedure the laws on salaries and other compensations of budgetary users at the level of BiH. So, the Commission has accepted the proposal and is proposing to Parliament to adopt the draft budget of this kind with two amendments, which have become an integral part by accepting the commission, meaning this budget and these conclusions, which I have just read. Thank you. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2470	Thank you very much, Mr. Spasoevich. The amendments to this law two amendments to this law were made by Mr. Genjac. You've got these amendments. I ask Mr. Genjac, if he thinks he has any need to explain these amendments, he can come out and do it. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2471	Your Honor, my amendments refer to the office of the liaison officer in The Hague. It is known that there are three offices, the Bosniak office, the Serbian office and the Croatian liaison officer's office. It is noted that there is an item in the Bureau for the work of liaison officers in The Hague in Budget. I, in doing so, found that last year's funds were determined by the Budget, that they were not enough for the work of these officers and that this year the same figure that was last year was envisaged, which means that this year too, there will be a shortage. Meanwhile, the Commission has considered this issue, the competent commission and our home and the House of Representatives have seen, and they have also seen the problem, and it is foreseen by the Commission that the funds of the reserves will sometimes provide those funds, which will be clearly needed for the work of officers in The Hague, liaison officers in The Hague. I had the opportunity to see one letter, which the prosecutor Karlo Delponta delivered to the BiH presidency about 10 March 2004, at a time when the preliminary version of the Budget was being made and when the prosecutor warned that it was important for the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the completion of the mandate, which was assigned to him by the UN, that there was still the possibility of working separately with all parties in the 1990s conflict in BiH and that it would be necessary to preserve the continued work of three liaison officers and, of course, the prosecutor would expect that the Parliamentary Assembly and the Presidency would also take care of each liaison office having enough resources to maintain the same level of support, which the prosecution, therefore, was provided by liaison officers and so far. For these reasons, having all of this in mind both the preparedness and the commissions and the House of Representatives to move those funds out of the reserve, I held that, and when all these new moments are taken into account, that this item should also be placed in Budget, if possible from the funds of the reserve to be defined and that, instead of providing for 1,628,340 KM, that this item is 2,171,238. I predicted these funds, looking at the budget with all the reserves, which I know exist at that reservation item, to move forward in such a way that the funds of the reserve instead of 4,600,000 were reduced and amounted to 4,057,000, which made each individual item in the reserves proportionally reduced, proportional to the reduction of the total item. I think that argument is enough that I had an intention and, of course, I would like the Budget Proposer to be seen about this, and I'm interested in providing the liaison officer's office with the resources necessary for their work. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2472	I'm sorry, Mr. Genjac, if there's a need to put this other one together right now, or if you're going to make an amendment, you have two amendments. Thank you very much. I'd like to hear the position of Proposer Budget. So let him say, "Budget's proposer," and then you discuss who's defending you. Minister, he needs us debaters, we need to hear his attitude, and then we will.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2473	I do not dispute the quality of the amendments, nor the need to increase funds. However, I am commercially intervened, in the case, on the basis of Article 89(3). The applicant for the amendment, following the reasons of the new articles, chaired by the College of the High House, is obliged to consult with his deputies, to apply new amendments in the case of new circumstances and only then can we go to the procedure for considering the amendments. So I ask that we honor this business section and that you, as chairman, conduct consultations, and only then can you invite a representative of the Council of Ministers and discuss the possible amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2474	I accept the objection. Thank you, Mr. Boško. Boško, you're right. Here, Mr. Jukić and I will step down and we'll take five minutes off and then we'll make a deal. Next business provision, I'll make the college decision for you. [[PAUZA]] Given that the House of Representatives adopted in this amendment II that, under point (b), the Commission proposes to provide budget reserves with sufficient resources to finance the work of the BiH institutions' audit and financial operations offices and liaison officers' offices in The Hague to ensure that those institutions work in the necessary capacity. So, that amendment has been adopted, agreed and I think it has been accepted by the Budgetor and we think that for this amendment, that this amendment should not be discussed and should not be discussed, there is no need for debate and that it cannot be adopted. It's a unanimous decision by the Presidency. Thank you very much. We're continuing to work with Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2475	... has the mandate to accept or not accept the submission of the amendment, because the submission of the amendment followed the meeting of the commission. I have called on certain new circumstances and the College may or may not have to accept these new circumstances, so the submission of the amendment to the new one should be accepted after the meeting of the Commission. I do not accept, and do not accept the amendment, in particular I think the argument is that the House of Representatives has accepted that the funds provide for the reserve and this additional, because this amendment is not accepted, precisely, that conclusion of the House of Representatives confirms the need for an amendment of this kind. 28 Therefore, I do not touch the sovereign right of the College to accept or accept the submission of the amendment. You decided not to accept it, and I respect it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2476	We have debated and we think that there are no new aspects and that this, by this decision of the House of Representatives and this amendment adopted by the House of Representatives, is quite well regulated. That's the college's attitude. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2477	Of course, the College has the right to make decisions, but I want to exercise my right as a member of this home to say that I believe that this is the way we have not solved the problem, and we have not confirmed that there is a single line within BiH institutions, when it comes to this matter and today's position, the College confirms only one clear divergence in relation to and behaviour. I am afraid this could be understood, how, in fact, BiH institutions are not very interested, I say, I hope not, they are not very interested in whether there are enough conditions for the work of liaison officers at The Hague tribunal. Just to be understanding, I remind you. The BiH presidency, according to what we have come to, so the official and officially uniquely determined the level of funds for liaison officers at The Hague tribunal's 2,272,000 and something else, and then that figure on the Council of Ministers, as it usually happens, because someone is sitting there and someone is not sitting there a little louder, someone less loudly yelling, we know how these things go. The people at The Hague are unable to sit on the Council of Ministers. They could not have had the opportunity to say their arguments directly to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers by banging the items, it simply downloaded this item, as it seemed a little further from some other items and a little louder demands than for other items. And now, by acting on some kind of half-inert, our colleagues in the House of Representatives have just done what is one bad Solomonian solution, which is, we think we should, but here we won't say how much we need, so we're going to do it as some priorities, and we're going to do it again sometime later and we're going to discuss it and we're going to consider it and now our distinguished College is continuing to do it. We think we should, and we don't know how to do it. Mr. Genjac's proposal, if you want new circumstances, is certainly one of the new circumstances, is the decision of the House of Representatives. In this matter, it certainly is. So, because the House of Representatives also took up one, under quotes, an undefined position, a formal incentive of needs, and indeed does not decide on the amount. So, in this case, our college behaves the same way, and so it leaves one thing open and unsettled, and then it can be concluded that, so let's get these up there, some of them will say that they have a lot anyway, and the others will probably say that they're a little bit, I think that's essentially the question in the next one. 29 As far as I understand it, these funds that are spent there must still be justified, and they shall be approved after the cost is realized. In that sense, I do not think that this is a burden for the Budget, especially there would be no direct burden on those and there is no dilemma that this budget proposal, or this budget, whatever it is, will experience in the course of the year change and further rebalancing, quite certainly, because some of the institutions that already exist will need a lot more money, and we have promised to establish new BH institutions and we have not yet, and we need to do it in order to reach these obligations towards the European Community. So for all these reasons, I would be glad that the College decided differently. However, as you've taken a stand, I just want to say that I'm not sure that we've pushed this thing best, and I think it would be a good idea that the least we should do is, indeed, take the view that we need to secure the funds that the Presidency has proposed, so now either in this rebalancing or in some future rebalancing. So I wouldn't settle for one general qualification and a general conclusion made by the House of Representatives. Finally, we are as a home equal to this other home and I think we have the opportunity to work in a way that we decide would be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2478	Thank you. We used our business law and we all have different opinions and we can have different opinions. We think in the College that this can be corrected and resolved through rebalancing, means like all other things are being solved and I think that the Presidency's decision, or the College of this House, is what it is, and now to insist or discuss the change of the presidency's decision at this point, is not, can be discussed only clearly, but I think it's a decision that is final to us. Thank you very much. I respect all attitudes and all opinions, however, let's move on to a budget debate. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2479	President, of course I will not comment specifically on the fact that after 115 days of the year, we have a chance to discuss and decide on the Budget today. Otherwise, as the introduction says, it is normal to do so by 31 December of the previous year. As for me personally, in spite of my wish by my colleagues, Spasojević that in the coming years, we do not come into the same situation, unfortunately I must express my conviction that at BiH level we will not have to say the normal budget, as long as the solutions in it depend on the individuality and on the other side of the international community, primarily the IMF and the World Bank and other entities that restrict us and direct us in the sense in which Mr Kumalić spoke, and related to the corresponding percentages. In a series of issues that can be raised in one critical relationship with the proposed budget, I will only publicly express my suspicion that this budget can be sufficient financial basis for the implementation of the reform processes that 30 must implement, although these reform processes we all agree, do not have an alternative. When I say this, I have in mind the fact that reforms are not free. They cost money. We, for example, need to form twenty institutions at BiH level in the next two months. These institutions must be financed. Today we agreed on the adoption of the Law on Police Officers. We saw there in the final provisions in the explanation, that this process also requires adequate resources. It would be good if in the future when we get proposals from certain legal solutions, we have to say it nominally, or at least indicatively, that we know how much it will cost because it seems to me that we will be in a situation where very nice intentions are not finalized through real reform or other words that these reforms remain only in the paper phase. On this occasion, I will especially highlight the example of the SIP, for which 6 million and 600,000 and a little more funding for this year, and the data has already been published, their need for 30 million. Different conclusions can be drawn from this, but the fact that with these means we objectively cannot realise this project and money is a key obstacle to the realization of this project. I am afraid that random fate is waiting for other institutions, especially those that we are about to form, and in this sense I agree with the position of our commission, that reforms and even the construction of central institutions should, as one of the elements, also have the rationalisation of our state administration, and not that it is practical that we, state-level institutions, finance as an additional burden. In other words, so when we transfer something from entity level to state level, then in that segment we also need to disburse entity budgets in a way that we simply get and rationalise our efforts towards building central institutions without which there is clearly no real reform process. I am personally very skeptical in this regard, and I would like to remember and I remember the opportunity of fellow Spasojević's position last year, and I would really like to talk to you differently on this topic next year, with more arguments, and not to be the main thing that we've been late, but simply to create assumptions and that responsibility lies with and part of the international community, which should really have understanding in terms of need, our need to finance the whole process of approaching Euro-Atlantic integration. When I say international communities, I mean, first of all, these financial institutions, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, so those who restrict us, with whom we usually go through the rock by means of arrangements, etc. this, we regulate these issues, because simply BiH, unfortunately, is not self-sustainable at this stage, but we need maximum help and understanding on their part to get into a situation as soon as possible so that we can finance what is necessary and what is in agreement with them and planned. Of course, I express my regret, which is not in this budget properly, found its place, for example, the Corridor VC we talked about last year. I'm saying it's not in the right way, in my deep conviction. On the other hand, without entering and agreeing with the way in which you, members of the College, have routed the way out of this situation, relating to Mr Genjac's amendments, I would like to say that otherwise, it is necessary to well analyse the fact that these funds, and I suppose, will be a solution in the 31st level of the request made by Mr Genjac, but it is symptomatic that these funds represent almost a third of the funds that he received for this year at the disposal of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with 131 employed since 31.12 last year, or exceeding a third of the funds of the Presidency itself. So, in this respect, indeed, I am not talking about, that I personally do not think that it is a good ratio of funds at the presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly. I think so, and very often Mr. Jukić mentioned it today, about media activities in that direction. There is nothing to hide, but here are the facts saying that indeed the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has 6 million, that the SIP, for example, has 6 million, and that three officers... and I was also this one, and I have had the opportunity to be in The Hag, I appreciate this job extremely important, but I think that in a certain way if we are already asked to approve, especially to approve of an increase in funds, we need to find a way to get adequate information in this regard. So the number of employees, the squares there that are used, etc. I think things can be rationalized more in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2480	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Is anyone else picking up? Is there any need for Mr. Jukić to go out for a pay phone? Here you go. Rescuer, did you want one?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2481	Mr. President, I will make several principle remarks, namely my assessments of the BiH institutions' budget. The budget shows that compared to the meanings of these planned, to the realised last year, it is reduced by about 10%, which in itself is clear that we will not meet the needs of BiH institutions including the external debt of BiH. However, we also heard from the representatives of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the way the budget was agreed, which were elements crucial to its composition and to me, however, some things after that clarification are not clear again. So, for example. In the income balance table, we have significant reductions in some items. I don't know what the explanations are, for example. Exceptional revenue in Table 2 under A 6 reduction by some significant 20%, some items even nearly halved. I don't know why these cuts? They are not significant, they do not participate significantly in the total income, but nevertheless significant reductions. Then, we see that what is the current cash support, so...and some of the support is not significantly reduced, even some are increased, which again speaks of one very bad actually structure of the entire budget. That's the kind of thing they really need to worry about. I don't know how the talks with representatives or prime ministers are going, but obviously they're not going right, because here's the end of the fourth month, and we're just now considering the draft budget, or the draft budget. We see that what's written here, as I've heard agreed long ago. And I don't know what the reason for this long delay is, if it's agreed to be 4% increase, how much planned it is... Then it was supposed to be again, it was clear even before the month ago, three etc. I don't know why we're so late. 32 Furthermore, the total amount to finance BiH institutions from the planned 212 will round up millions of marks, is certainly insufficient and, of course, standing here and standing there and we see that all BiH institutions are involved. So this is the budget we're doing right now, not the budget that we really need to expect to be realized just like it says, and that's basically why I'm putting on Mr. Genjac's amendment. Whether it's procedurally okay or not, we can work it out differently. So this House can always talk about its rules of procedure and agree differently, etc. but I believe that because many things here are not defined, in fact institutions that are formed, which are beginning to work, have no place in the budget regularly, but are listed here that they are provided with initial funds, of course very well planned because it is quite clear that they are insufficient. It's going to be a few times maybe ten times larger than these ones written here, so I think that when there's a budget rebalance, I expect it'll be very soon, that some other items will be ironed then, and what's been the subject of Mr. Genjac's amendment. There's only one thing I'm looking forward to here. And that's what we've heard about the clarification that this year's liabilities to external debt are significantly less. But it's because of the bankruptcy differences. We got lucky this time. However, if external debt affects us in this percentage of our total budget, then the question is what if it happens differently, which is to be expected. A different bankruptcy difference contrary to our interest, therefore to damage. How are we going to find the means to finance it, etc. When I say this, then I'm just talking about how small these funds really are, and actually the things we finance, the obligations we finance are very clearly defined and there's very little room for any movement, and I don't know any combinations to meet needs, etc. We were also witnesses when we had two meetings before this, so before about a month and a half, while at the time of the session, it was still not an accident, of course, we had certain flowers. In front of this building, etc. I'm probably even convinced, not only likely, that people are justified, but I don't know if it was the right address? I don't think so. Why? Because BiH institutions have no planned funds at all for these and similar purposes. So for incentives and premiums in agricultural production. The EU has raised the issue of agricultural production and policies to Union level, so Brisla and here we are trying to address it at some other lower levels than the state. Okay, that's our problem. Let me get this straight. I think that the planning of this budget is actually a little difficult qualification, but because of the situation, with a lot of improvisation because we are in such a state right now, that we can't actually plan realistically because what we really need is very little depends on us, on the BiH institutions, but depends on the International Monetary Fund, on the agreement with entity governments, of course, on us in the part where we have formed some institutions, to put them into office. Here is one of them planned to start with their work, that....direct indirect taxation, however, as I have information, and yet I do not have enough information, of course, there are certain problems and delays etc. and I think it would be very important, in fact, it is a certain issue that these institutions, and especially the one I mentioned last, and it is important for BiH's revenues, to improve financial discipline, to put it into office as soon as possible. To put into office the SIP, to put into office and newly formed Intelligence Agency, etc. and it will certainly be 33 significant assumptions for better and better quality harvesting of all public revenues, and of course BiH's income. Here, I wouldn't really be longer because there's no need to take the time. I think we're in the mood here today to adopt what's been proposed and to be operational again. I think that's the most meaningful thing, without changing to get at least four months, at the end of the fourth month, we get a budget for the current year. I think it would be really a little irresponsible and then Mr Limov and the other people who are not members of the parliamentary council would have additional reasons to talk about these deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2482	Thanks a lot, buddy. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2483	The electronics aren't working again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2484	How does it not work?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2485	Yeah, when I raise my hand, it does electronics.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2486	It always takes a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2487	Thank you for the information. Looking at this Budget Proposal, I have tried a little bit to observe this item, which is so visibly indicated in any institution as paragraph 1. It's employee pay. I have a question, before any discussion for a proposing representative, to give me precise information on the number of employees. Now, right now, let me give it to you right now. This is not a parliamentary question, it's a matter of discussion about the budget. The number of employees in the BiH presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the CIA, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice and the Central Bank. If they don't have a central bank, I can separate it. So the total number of employees to which this item is paid. In the Presidency, the CIA, the Parliamentary Assembly, the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Justice. When I get an answer, then I'll answer the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2488	Thank you, sir. I ask my colleagues from the Council of Ministers if they are available at this time, to take them out, to give them, or if, because most likely in the composition of the budget, you have to have whether. 34 I, while Hasan is waiting for an answer, are Mr. Kumalić, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2489	The total number of employees in BiH institutions is 31.12. In 2003, it was 4.240. If it's looked at individually, I didn't remember it very well. Let's say Parliamentary Assembly 120. Presidency, 98. Constitutional Court 38. Take it easy. Justice Department, 103. Department of Security, 60 people.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2490	Well, for those planned, it's got to be calculated.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2491	Currently, 4240 employees. I've got 31.12 data here. 2003. Department of Security, 60. Justice Department 103, what else do you want to know?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2492	CRA
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2493	Wait a minute, Regulatory Agency, 78. Now that I've already found myself here, here's this, just to say that it's true that wages are not equal in all budget users, that the trend in such a policy has been given to these international organisations, so this specifically regulatory agency is falling back. Their averages are far higher than any other institution. However, with these two laws required to be passed by the Presidency and the Parliamentary House of Representatives, it is the Law on Payments and the Law on the Financing of Institutions, the problem will practically be resolved.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2494	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Mr. Čengić, if this is enough data, here's this one, or while you're getting ready, someone else will answer the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2495	At the Ministry of Security and the Department of Justice, please, my information is that the Department of Justice currently has one employee through the State Department. You provided information that 103 is employed by the Department of Justice and 60 at the Ministry of Security. Is this the current staff, do you have any information on how employees are or is it what they plan to hire at the ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2496	I was speaking on the basis of which this proposed budget was passed. [[no microphone turned on]] 35
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2497	Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2498	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, others present, I am pleased to finally have the opportunity to discuss the draft budget for this year for BiH institutions. No matter what I come from those parties that formed the ruling coalition at this time, I cannot agree that only today we have this proposal and I think it is unacceptable, regardless of the reasons and the fact that actually the main brake was probably this time state in entities or in one entity of the Federation. Yes, Mr. Šiljegović, in one entity. You spent money on time. So, of course, by respecting that fact, I think this is all a sign and these are all arguments, that future institutions, all institutions in BiH, therefore not BiH institutions, but all BiH institutions must seek out ways of functioning and coordination, which will allow the normal, smooth functioning of the state and which will allow for the financing of what is necessary for the work of that state. There's no dilemma that the funds offered here are minimal. There's no dilemma, and it's natural that everyone who's asked for budget users and thought they should get more and that there's been a major shaking, but also the fact that we're still through the budget, we're showing that the state is not our priority. Not only is it not our priority in reforms, but the state is not our priority at all. It is very easy to prove and, of course, the explanation will be that international institutions, first of all these two mains that hold an umbrella above us, do not allow any other approach. I still want to say mine, which is -- that the state isn't our priority, it's just that here in the funds that we've secured, except for paying off what we've already spent or eaten, we don't have anything that's developmental. We have no incentive for employment, nor for development, nor for employment, and in particular we have no means of returning the refugees. If anyone can object to us that they are some kind of development, employment, etc. some future that we have time for, no one can prove to us that we still have time to get the refugees back, especially knowing that the return of the refugees is now objectively possible from the point of view of security, from the point of view of the return of property, and that now the main problem is therefore the main problem, the issue of what would call a sustainable return, and that is some kind of adjudication, employment, etc. Which, I wish we could secure it in high-tech but since we can't, where we can't, at least where we can and need it agriculture. So if there is somewhere, something where we should show up in encouragement or support, then it's definitely in agriculture because through it, we could secure two things. Therefore, the type of agricultural development, which means reducing imports, increasing domestic production, and perhaps exporting, and at the same time increasing the sustainability of return. It's on one side. 36 On the other hand, since we have already established that this budget will be rebalanced, which is natural because this year we are high, so in one big process of establishing new institutions, means new consumers of funds, and clearly we will need to rebalance this budget. But that's exactly why we had to wait until today with, at least, this version? Next, as they say only what is published, and what does not happen often is a reality, then we have a situation that still transparents items, I repeat the transparent items of the budget become not transparent when we reach an individual. That's not why I asked the number of employees for nothing. I received official information that 120 were employed in the Parliamentary Assembly. Mr. Limov mentioned 131 and I believe that he knows what he said and I believe that his data is fresher, but I would ask you to bring that information together a little bit. I'll take this one, from 131 because he might be a little more favourable. So there are 98 employees or 100 of them in the Bureau. The Ministry of Security said it was planned for 60, planned. I don't believe that right now you can answer me how real it is, how real people are at this hour, but I'm going to tell you what it says in the Budget Proposal. So he says like this -- he pays his employees 1 million 338 thousand. If I took that 60 already employed since 01.01, compare their salaries with their salaries in the presidency. So compare the number of salaries provided for in the Bureau and how much is foreseen in this ministry. I don't understand how such a difference can happen. If we remember in the presidency, I'd like you to help me somewhere around 1 million and 350 or 500 grand. I can't say right now, here's two million and 140 grand to 98 or 100 and this is this much over here. When it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly, which has long been and remained on the bell at high scary wages, that bell corresponded to those times and to some opposition parties, I don't know what they are silent about now. It is interesting, therefore, that the wages, in this Parliamentary Assembly, are a total of 3 million and something else, and in the CRA are the same as they are. This same CRA is also 2 million and 700 and something else, 2,800 CRA, 885 so 2 million and 900 almost 3 million, one CRA spends on wages, and they have 78 employees. I don't mind being stimulated by someone who works, and I don't mind, in particular, that someone stimulates someone who does what he does, either by his wishes or by his instructions. There's nothing I can do about it. It's a natural and famous thing in the world. Only then can anyone who wants to get a job done by his will pay for it. It is unacceptable to make such discrimination at the level of the same institutions. So the BiH institution has such pay discrimination and that it is kept public at the same time. That this is not to be said in public, because it is obvious for some it is more the authority of the CRA than the Parliamentary Assembly. It's also interesting to understand which sliding scale these costs count in, say, the Ministry of Security or the Ministry of Justice, if the year starts with one digit, it ends with maybe another digit. I'm saying maybe, so we don't have any dynamics yet how many people employed in the third month, how busy they are in the sixth and ninth, but we already know in advance how much money they need to spend on it. If we'd asked, if any of those funds were to be allocated to refugees, I know the answer 37 would have been. He can't, there's no money, etc. But I can also, without any problem, spend such a significant amount of money on something that we still don't know how busy he is. When we discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly in our time that a number of experts, which should be paid for their professional services, were said to have no money for the quality work of the Assembly. And how can these other means be secured? So I think that the Council of Ministers, it was mandatory and mandatory, and I would ask for the rebalancing to make this a conclusion, that in the budget rebalances of all of these items we have, on additional paper because it is obviously not a formula, on additional paper, we get the number of employees... and where the changes occurred during the year, to get precise information on how the changes were made. So, when someone was fired, the number of employees was reduced or the number of employees was increased by dynamics. I think this is important, not because I think it's this one, that it's some big waste, but for better publicity. Finally, it is obvious that we will support this budget today, but it is obvious that we need to ask the Council of Ministers for much greater co-operation and coordination with all who are working on the preparation of the budget and at the same time with the Parliamentary Assembly who must come into a position to have a clearer picture all the time, so the implementation of this budget, and finally I think it would be good for the Council of Ministers to come out with a proposal of their own or understanding, when it expects a rebalancing of the institution and from which the means of thinking provide funds for this rebalancing, because I fear that the rebalancing will be worse. So, for even more consumption, not reduction. In this sense, I have a particular question, are some additional sources planned, direct sources and what is the position of income achieved through the Central Bank of BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2499	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Here's the deputy minister wants to answer, most likely to answer Čengić and answer what Čengić asked as a question. Mr. Kumalić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2500	Apparently, we didn't understand each other at the level of consumption. The consumption level is limited. There may be changes, meaning only in the consumption structure between individual budget users. These pay problems and the number of employees, Mr. Čengić is completely management and we so far have no control over the Ministry of Finance. It's only this year that we're installing into the vault system, so we're tracking the number of employees in all budget users. And every budget employee has certain criteria, there can be no abuse when we install this system and it works. 38 I have already noted that these individual institutions, unfortunately the Directorate for Direct Taxation, have been imposed by foreigners as an institution outside BiH institutions, which we have no influence on, but we count on the Law on Payments to practically overcome all problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2501	Thank you, Mr. Kumalić. Here's a word from Mr. Limov. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2502	It can only be treated like a replica. I'd still say clarification. I took the data out of the draft budget. So here is clearly the planned number of persons employed on 31 December, 131 for the Parliamentary Assembly, and 85 for the Presidency. We have now received information that it is actually 120 and 90 in the Parliamentary Assembly. Obviously, it's in a date, in reality, and what's written here. I have to admit, that fact can only confuse us further.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2503	Thank you very much, Mr. Limov. Do we have ________: [[You can't hear anything from the microphone.]] The budget started to work, well that's possible changes. Normally we are a society that is constantly changing, constantly changing, a society in transition, quite clearly, change is possible. Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? He's not answering. Thank Bog, here we have exhausted the discussion at this point. halide, did you want to? Here you go, Halida.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2505	Of course, this story when it opens around this, the details in the budget, it always disappoints us in a certain way over and over again. For me, it is a disappointing fact that the Council of Ministers is currently missing the Office for Auditing, in addition to the Treasury's business, that there is no possibility of controlling and monitoring real employment in institutions. This isn't a big deal. This is twice as important. One thing, in order to strengthen the institutions that we have conducted here, we have adopted laws, we have established institutions, including the ministries, and the deadlines that have been set for these ministries to meet their roles in the context of Euro-Atlantic integration, inter-remaining and other needs of citizens, the state agency also plays a very strong role, hiring state 39 officials. So when, in conditions where there is this Employment Agency, when there is an Audit Office, when there is a vault business, we simply don't have the ability to control how much pay is really needed and how much wages are allocated in a way that cabinets are filled with various staff, consultants, etc. I must say that I have received information in my time that one of the important ministries, that I do not single out, one of the important ministries, because the situation is in some other ministries, there are only 1 man employed through the State Agency. There are several advisors, etc. But that ministry has a letter and number one employee. How this ministry, which plays a key role in lawmaking, will fulfill its role, how it will prepare the laws, is one question. And the second question, how are we going to know here that these millions, millions and seven hundred, million and eight hundred, two million from the ministry to the ministry, that they were just as much, that they could have been half smaller, that they might have been bigger, that maybe half of those figures could have been allocated to a social problem that is getting worse and worse in BiH every day, and just when, so I get the impression today by raising my hand for this budget like this, we adopt a vague situation where first of all we don't know how much it really takes to pay, and how much it's given out of the cigs. For these reasons, I would ask that one of the conclusions after the adoption of this budget be, that the BiH Council of Ministers submit to the first next session information on current employment in all BiH institutions, ministries, agencies, etc. which is financed from this budget. Please. Of course, and how big they are, because it will be clear how much they receive from this budget. So, all the institutions, all the offices, all the agencies, all that is based on this today's budget, which will probably be adopted and likely very quickly subject to rebalancing, so all that is based on this budget, to be the conclusion that the Council of Ministers delivers information as much as in these entities to budgetary users is employed by a person through the Agency, the State Agency. Then I think we'll be able to start talking about meeting our obligations and exercising our studies, etc. And why some things are late, why is the Action Plan that only the Council of Ministers has proposed, why so many segments are late, etc. So, please suggest that conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2506	Thank you very much. We've heard this and this... for that proposal. I'm thinking next. In fact, we just heard Mr. Kumalić telling us that the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Finance or the Treasury is preparing, having a project, it is going into the program whether, by which these things were now spoken by Genjac will be very well followed, and it is clear to me that through the vault, all personal incomes regarding institutions, i.e. all budget users, and there is very easy this one, after it is established, it is easy to control, list and have daily awareness whether it is. But here's this, what Mr. Genjac requires, he's also talking about some deadline that's called the next session is you. I wonder, is it possible or is it possible that somewhere, Halid please, I have a little correction of your proposal, so yes, is what you were saying, and what Kumalić was saying earlier, that the vault has a real system and it is quite clear that all personal incomes are received through the vault and all costs respond and that it is recorded, correct and good. And if it can't be done differently now, if all 40 have to be budget users, they go over the vault. Your request is that in a month we have this information. The minister says they're preparing the program, and it seems to me if I understand correctly that the program has not yet walked completely. Shall we speak and reach a conclusion, that in the second half, after the annual vacations that we have come up with the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Treasury with its programme done and completed, it will tell us what it has done, how it is being followed and whether it is possible to do so and whether the Assembly at such sessions, when we are discussing in particular the budget, the budget rebalancing, whether MPs can have it in front of them so that they can monitor it, because the budget is the policy of all policies. It's an X-ray of everything that's going on in this country. So, can we do this, here's to sort of reconcile what Halid wanted and what the ministry says it did. I'm trying to find an optimum. I don't want us to conclude now that the ministry can't meet that conclusion. Thank you very much. Here you go, Halida.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2507	Please, Madam Chairman, let the ministry do its job and prepare mechanisms that have not been prepared so far. What I suggested, so until the next session, I don't count on this May 4th because it's extraordinary. Until the next session, the Council of Ministers shall provide us with information on the number of employees in all individual budget users. That's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2508	Thank you. Okay. Sustained. Thank you. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2509	So it's about some other purpose. This will be for the purpose of informing the MPs. So, all employees in total and then the number of employees through the state agency on each budget user. From that data we'll see. So, please, very clearly for the next session, the number of employees in all budget users, the total staff and the second question, how many of these are employed through the state agency?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2510	Thank you very much. Hasan Čengić wanted to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2511	...the debate is very likable. Just a little while longer, I'm going to get the impression that we're in state-owned black institutions. I'm sorry, I'm gonna get the impression we have black employees. So we're discussing how many days or months it takes the Council of Ministers to come out with a list of the 41 he pays out of the budget. Please tell me the company in this country that paid the salary for this last paycheck, that doesn't know how much she paid. Well, this is a company. Let's see. If they don't have it in the government, I'm looking for a government shift. You know where it starts. From the one who makes the bill. So from the finance minister and those who work at the finance ministry. So there's no dilemma, they need as much time as they need to print the computer. That's how much time it takes. Let's look tomorrow morning, it'll be tomorrow morning. Let them work overtime for an hour and finish the story. What they paid for, please, it's very simple, what they paid for as a last paycheck, whether it was for January, for February, March, I don't know the last salary paid from the budget let us see what it's about. Otherwise, we have the impression that we have black employees and we can't have them. So give it to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2512	So it can be. Thank you very much. Do I have any more people reporting for discussion? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Free
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2514	Total share of salaries.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2515	Thank you very much. Here's the deal. So, can we vote for the budget first, and then we'll vote for this conclusion, so we know what we've decided. I am voting on the budget of the BiH institutions for 2004. We're going to the vote, so start now, please. _______: [[no microphone turned on]] And international obligations, well forgive me, it doesn't say here in the agenda, excellent. So we have a vote. Ten for one abstention. So, the BiH House of Peoples, adopted the Budget of the BiH institutions and the international obligations of BiH for 2004. 42 Please, well, normally, so I'm not finished. With the amendments and the Commission's conclusions. Please, are we now voting this conclusion of Mr. Halid, so if I may, I will. Mr. Genjac's conclusion, so what else is reading, we adopted all of this in our first reading, and now we adopted this in our second reading, and that's why it's over, as far as I remember, I'm sorry. Please, I mean, this was another reading. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. So, that the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Finance, or the Treasury, will provide us with information on the number of employees in all BiH institutions for the next session, which is not this session, which will take place on 4 May, but that session, which will take place on 21 May, and that means on the budget users employed through this State Agency and normally, you will also give those who are employed, the tenants who are employed through the Labour Intermediation Bureau. I think that's the conclusion. Is it Halide? Who's to say that? Please vote now. Thank you very much. hasane, help me with this conclusion of yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2517	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2518	Great, this conclusion by Mr. Genjac, Mr. Genjac's proposal was adopted unanimously. Thank you very much. Secondly, what Mr. Hasan Čengić suggested, I ask Hasane to dictate exactly what you suggested, into the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2519	So, I ask the Council of Ministers as a Proposer of Budgets whether or not, and who is going to do it, that's another thing, that for budget rebalances with all other information that is common to the budget to give us an exact number of employees at that time in each institution that is financed from the budget, at that time when the rebalancing is done.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2520	Thank you very much. Who's to this conclusion? We vote, now. So we unanimously adopted this conclusion. That's how the People's House does it, thank you very much. 43 Let's go, the next item or the fifteenth point of the agenda is, Ad.15. The draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2004 Let's go, we say this is the first reading. This is the first reading. You've received the law as well as the report from the committee in charge. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. So we're talking about base, legal basis, and here's the debate. Any questions? There isn't. Who's in favor of adopting the law in our first reading? So we're going to the vote. Let's vote now. I also think this is unanimous. I think it's unanimous. So we also adopted this proposal for a law on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions in first reading, unanimously. I now propose that we conduct the discussion in the second reading and adopt this implementation of the budget for 2004 definitely, the draft law on the execution of the Budget is whether. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There were no new amendments. Is anyone answering for a word? So no one's answering for a word. Now I'm putting the law to the vote. Who is it for us to adopt a report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2004 and in the second reading? Please vote now. Well, I told the budget law. Did I make a lapusine? So, unanimity again. The next item of the agenda is A.16. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, second reading in the second reading. Please, we've had this one here, you know the situation regarding this law. At our insistence, the House of Representatives held a meeting and hurried to our intervention. He's passed definitely this law with three amendments. The Commission adopted three amendments that are the same as at the House of Representatives. There were no new amendments. And I'm opening a debate. Is there? There isn't. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law on adoption. Who's in? Let's vote now. Please repeat, I've broken something. We repeat, I've ruined the looks. 44 Who is it for us to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law? Let's vote here, now. So we passed this law unanimously. Thank you. The 17th point of the agenda is, Ad.17. Consideration of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office's report on the audit carried out for 2002 Here, on the agenda, I read to you, but not to read any further, is it, we have audits that are these institutions and Is this all to what point? I'll put it all the way down to 24 downstairs for discussion. So under point 17, we are considering all the reports of the institutions, all the audit reports for financial operations and hearing about each institution's visit to BiH, the beneficiary of whether, budgets. I'm making a motion for a debate. You've received a report from the Ministry's Audit Office, and you've also received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives adopted the Office of Audit Report. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone picking up? Halida, can I ask you a question? You've had one conversation, I'm sorry in one conversation to comment on this. Now, are you gonna answer that or, here you go, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2521	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, dear guests, the commission also held a report by the BiH institutions for 2002 at its session held on 20 April, and the commission concluded that what we would now discuss on the commission was something that would have been empty, because it was a long time ago. By concluding that these are the people who are working in the audit, this three from Mr Miletić and his deputies, that in time they delivered their report, with the House of Peoples not, or the committee responsible for the House of Peoples not to blame, which had not been discussed before because we had concluded that we were adopting the report, that is, discussing the laws only after the debate of the House of Representatives, which the House of Representatives did not debate even though it was delivered in time, we do not know. So this report that we discussed on this committee, in addition to what the representatives of the audit house told us about the shortcomings that were in that period, when they were the financial report of the BiH institutions for 2000 and discussed, we on the committee fully meant not to discuss each institution individually, accepted the meaning of the same report as adopted by the Finance and Budget Commission of the House of Representatives and referred it to this House of Representatives for adoption, by proposing that in a single conclusion one in the future, means such reports, in addition to what needs to go on time, and so that there would be no more dissociation between the 45 House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, we suggest that these reports be united in a common one Commission and House of People and the House of Representatives, that not these people who have discussed the same thing from the auditors's house, and that it is useful and the initiative that these are common to the Commission, which we are relevant to the two people, and to discuss the relevant committees, in particular, that we agree with the relevant committees, and the relevant committees, and the relevant committees, the Commissions, and the Commissions, and the Commissions, and the Commissions, and the Commissions, in particular. And that at least this year it will be on time and we will discuss what was done and business, that is, in that previous year. I suggest this is what I propose to adopt, by opening up opportunities for every MP to say something individually about how these BiH financial institutions were doing in 2000. There are probably MPs who have a grudge against this work and should take it out and put it in some papers that will stay, because maybe someone will eventually pull it out, like who did. Especially since there was a shift in power. One was, one was coming, replacing others, so maybe it's nice to stay in the papers, like who did. But the real effect of how who worked in... we're in... I don't think there's any point in discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2522	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm opening a debate. Halid, will you answer it? Thank you very much. I have to say now, we don't have a quorum. Our colleague Radovanović came out, had to come out if he did, so we'll wait for him to come back. Something's wrong with him, so if he's not well, let's see. Fortunately, this one, Šiljegović, was joking as usual. Thank you very much. So, insert that card, yes, so I put it to the vote. I put it to the adoption vote, what, the adoption of this report, and who's for the adoption of the report? We vote now. Thank you very much. Now we've all voted whether or not. Is this what I didn't vote for? 11 and 1 abstention. Thank you very much. With, therefore, the report was adopted. I propose that we also adopt the conclusion of the President of the Commission that this is how it should be said - that these reports are submitted in time and adopted, not brother, this is for this report, for this report, and that both committees and the House of Representatives and the House together discuss it, and that they make joint decisions, i.e. observations and decisions concerning this report. Who's up for it? Well, because it can happen, it's exactly the same material. Here you go, Hasane. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2523	I'm sorry, if I remember when we discussed what joint committees we were going to have, there were very strict discussions and it has very persistently determined that they should remain the budget committees separate in each home individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2524	No, not the budget. We're not talking about the budget, we're talking about these financial office reports, audit reports, and that part, we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2525	I don't know, if we don't have a joint commission, I don't see a reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2526	Okay. Okay, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2527	I have a very clear attitude. If we don't have a joint commission, I don't see any reason why we're going to be together to make opinions about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2528	Okay. I must put the motion of a colleague of the chairman of this committee to the vote. Please. Here's the 8th.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2529	Very short. I'm sorry. How can we be sure that we will draw the same conclusions on two different committees in two different homes, if there is no business opportunity to sit together to agree. How? I don't know how? They can be different attitudes on two different committees. Who's going to coordinate them?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2530	Thank you very much, Mr. brkati. Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2531	Mr. Brk, we'll mean everything will remain the same, as long as only these people in the audit will not be harassed but, since it's a lot of institutions yes, it's about, how many, 15 institutions. So it'll all stay the same. We from the House of the People's Commission will vote specifically, and in particular those from the House of Peoples will vote, that is, ours and theirs in particular. With what they mean to explain to each other, people won't have to come twice about the same thing to us. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2532	Thank you very much, Mr. Spasojević. We understand each other. Mr. Jukić answered the question. Well, what you're gonna do. There's as much explanation as there is.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2533	Here's what I'm going to try to think of and interpret what we're about to conclude. We should have written it, and then adopted it as the conclusion of our finance and administrative committee. I think there was talk about how. First of all, the reports are very late, if it's a year and a half, so we asked whether the audit could work, do these jobs earlier, to be published at least in the first half of the year, not in the 10th month, etc., so that in the year we can discuss the revision of the previous year, so what is current. That's one thing. The other thing is also said that these reports are extensive whether or not they should be and there is no I don't know either right now 20 and several institutions, there will be 30 and several etc. And we talked about the need for how any report on the revision to be completed to be delivered to consider the possibility of this. It seems personal to me that this is a convenient, convenient way, so I don't know either, and maybe I don't know what the five institutions are reporting, so on another occasion, the new 10 are being discussed, etc., and not all of a sudden. That went our way, but I thought we'd talk a little bit about it at this second point that is now following and bearing the title, as it is called, the report on the work of the review committee, the Office of Audit. I was thinking about talking about this whole thing, and about that point before, so this one that's right now point means in these very reports we said that they're really so late and that it really feels really unnecessary to talk about it right now. Now, in a few months I'm expecting business audit reports for last 2003, and not now talking about 2002. Maybe we should talk about something else now, and that's after we studied these materials we got half a year and more. One thing we don't understand is why we're so late for this debate. He said why again. That the reason is removed, and the other reason to see if any of these grudges that are sometimes and not so small in business, was something interesting for someone else other than the auditory house. Is something, some other institution has done in a sense, and I don't know if I can reward someone for being or being punished for doing so. Maybe in that sense. I think it would be time, so this time which is now that it is precisely the time for such conversations, so on the subject of these issues on the subject of the 2002 report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2534	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. There's one question. Can committees of each other at home agree to hear these reports together, and then let each one make his own decision? That's what the commissions can agree on without any decision. You know, A. And 48, I think we've explained here a little bit now that we shouldn't even put this on the agenda, please, for a vote. Excuse me. Have a seat, Hassan.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2535	I think it would actually be good here to talk about exactly what Mr. Jukić was saying, which is here we have people who are doing this audit activity, reviewing, reviewing. Can we understand from them, I use the opportunity to ask them directly, can they tell us what the dynamics of their work are and when they will have a report, report or report on individual institutions and their budget spending for 2003? I think the way it's been done so far is because it's been. But it doesn't mean it can't get any better. I propose that we understand and suggest that we see whether we can do as Mr. Jukić suggested, that we have dynamics and that, in fact, every month, or every two months, every two months, the commission must consider what has been done by then and that we react to it and that we have the opportunity to discuss it, because we have killed ourselves from the story of transparency, responsibility, public work, forgive me, what we have done now is neither transparently, publicly, nor responsiblely, nor seriously, nor professionally, nor anything. Why? Because several thousand pages of government spending reports for over a year have been pushed into 15 minutes, right, a discussion called that. Now let's say it was because it's history, which is history, which is history, which is so on. Can we change from this moment on? I think we need to change, and then that would solve this question. Then it's unnecessary if we're going to have 24 institutions all of a sudden in some 7-day marathon discussion, or every two months we're going to have a report from three institutions, we're going to have enough space and we're going to work. And secondly, and secondly, if we haven't decided to integrate these two homes into one and make a single-home Parliamentary Assembly, which would be contrary to the Dayton Constitution, I don't see any reason why we should now push that important part of the work together. Excuse me. The gentlemen sitting here are glad to sit down, so that someone doesn't prescribe to them in the paper what I said, it's their job to explain and submit their report every time the competent institutions ask for it, which is exactly this home and its commission. Whether it's going to be once, or five, or seven times, it's completely irrelevant. They're gonna do their job professionally, and they're gonna have to do it probatively. What is important is to ensure that our commission is able to obtain complete information, understand the problem well, analyse it well and make proposals for measures and activities to be taken further. For this reason, I am very clear that instead of voting on how one day a single presentation of how much money we spent, or how, what our audit, what the audit report found, is being done, we will do one dynamic in 49, which we will have throughout the year, monitoring the audits and monitoring the work. That would make our work serious, too, would be serious for the Council of Ministers and all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2536	Thank you very much. Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2537	Mr. Chairman, since there's been some debate about it we've had some good will to do this to these people who do it, not to do it twice and I as chairman of the committee, I don't know just because the commission has concluded it, but here are the members of the commission and I can very much give up on my proposal to go to the joint commission. And just one more conclusion that we've come to the commission to discuss and which we've given as a guide to this auditory house is that what Mr. Jukić said after every two, three reports he's doing for two, three institutions to deliver it to the homes that we're discussing, means in an adequate time when it's really time, not that it's 1-2 years late or 1 year and it's no longer current for discussion. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2538	Thank you very much. So here's what I'd do now, if I may conclude. This earlier proposal is yours to withdraw and probably the board members agree. Your new proposal would now be to say that we ask the commission to go out to Parliament with its reports on the moment when, please, the office, excuse the office to exit the moment the report ends. And now I have one more thing to say, we now have the next item of the agenda that talks about the business of the financial audit office for 2003. I think we could at this point on the agenda and maybe a little bit of that methodology in agreement with our colleagues when we talk about this report to do a little bit of that too, to define it in a certain way. So let's say that it would be a good idea for the Assembly to get what dynamics these reports give. So we're going to think that this 17th point of this report is all adopted, so we adopted and here we are, because we voted for them, right, and here I suggest we move on to the 18th point of the agenda of Ad.18. A report on the business of the financial audit office for 2003 is available. Is there anything the commission can say? Please. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2539	The Commission also discussed the report on the work of the BiH Financial Audit Office for 2003 and unanimously accepted their report by saying that I would like to underline that what we have adopted in relation to the Budget Proposal, that the Commission has proposed to ensure from the budget reserves the priority financing of this committee, which is for us on the committee, the priority financing of this audit house which has presented to us for the following year, is a proposal to expand with 4 auditors, as I recall, and so little more, that this house would need a little more funding to get financial ones. At this point in the budget, it didn't come out to meet, but we suggest, here are the people in the vault that priorityally, in addition to what we put in place to be a liaison officer for The Hag, that it be this auditory house that really does its job right and there's no reason not to get in touch with them that they really need those funds for their work to be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2540	Thank you, Mr. Spasojević. Is there any need for colleagues from the audit to say something? Here you go, buddy. You will introduce yourself, I apologize, Mr Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2541	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman-in-Office, honourable MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am Ivan Miletić, Bosnia and Herzegovina's general auditor and the chairman of the Co-ordination Committee of the Institutions for Audit. I'm just gonna brief our activities over the last year. So we did a review of 24 institutions last year. We delivered that report to you in the short version for 2002 and delivered it at the end of September of last year. This is one European practice that the revision begins when the final accounts are completed, which is 1.3. and by the end of the ninth month we will submit the reports to the Parliamentary Assembly, to the media representatives, put it on the VEP page and deliver it to the other institutions. So this is one common European practice and it will also be proposed in the new Law on the financing of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to this practice should also be adopted by the end of that year, meaning by the end of 12 months that the review report should not be adopted before, the budget should not be adopted sooner than the adoption of the report. So we'll adopt it sooner than the Office's report is passed. So we will foresee precisely in this law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina deadlines when the ministries need to submit their report and do, when the ministry of the vault needs to do a consolidated report by the institutions, this report and we also need to revise it, and all of it needs to come to the Parliamentary Assembly before the budget is adopted for next year. 51 would only mention some activities. We are full members of the international organisation of the top audit institutions of TOSAI, here we participate in the joint activities organised by this international institution. He would point out that we are, we have active cooperation with the Swedish National Audit Office. They donated our IT equipment worth about 80,000 euros. Now we're really fully equipped. We have our own internet site we have, all MPs have access to the Internet. All auditors have laptop cannons, etc., so we are extremely equipped and there will facilitate further work in the audit. I also said that I am the chairman of the Co-ordination Committee, which consists of the Director-General and the Vice-General and all three audit institutions, we together carry out joint activities such as joint training, joint international co-operation. We adopted a joint audit report for all three audit institutions. It is unique in this part of Europe, so it is one of the great results of this coordination committee. He'd say something briefly about a plan for this year. You saw that for the past year we did a review for 24 institutions, and this year we plan for 38 budget users to audit plus two institutions that are not budget users, but are institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's an official messenger and an Agency for Labour and Employment. By this you can see how many institutions are growing and how many audits there are more jobs each year, and I believe that in this year there will be a significant number of institutions. That would require more resources for our institution to employ additional staff. We also plan to start this year with, if nothing with training and staff recruitment for impact review. This is a whole new kind of revision whose task is to assess whether institutions are economically, efficiently and effectively spending public money, or whether they are doing the right thing for citizens. I would also like to thank you for supporting this home and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2542	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2543	Excuse me. I had two more questions. Is that a matter of delivering reports? I think that the current importance would be gained if we were to submit the reports simultaneously, and I accept that, and we can deliver at the end of the fifth month, I think about 7-8 audit reports, and that would significantly update the audit work itself, affect the work of the institutions and certainly the impact of this high house on the control of the work of the Council of Ministers. I think it's a good idea for the joint committees. That was our idea of a joint review of reports on committees. I think the best solution would be to form a joint commission when it comes to the audit office. It's a practice in a world like Canada where there's a special review committee. 52 The goal was to speed up the audit report, discuss the audit report, that they will reach the Parliamentary Assembly by the end of the 12 months. It was one of the ideas. If there are any better ideas I am standing on the table, the main goal is for the revision to be as current as possible and for the audit reports to be adopted by the end of the current year for the past year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2544	Thank you very much. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2545	I'm taking the opportunity to thank the gentlemen who's been doing these audit reports and who's doing and running this job and I think what we've heard is encouraging for two reasons. First because we finally got a full report on 2002 and secondly, I'm glad the gentlemen say they're well equipped technically enough to do their job. I am convinced that we will understand their need for additional financial resources for the obvious reason of a great increase in the number of institutions they have to control and I think that next year they will have more than they planned this year, it is natural and is in line with our activities thus according to these international and domestic obligations. Secondly, I think it's a good idea to have the opportunity to discuss this, but I would like here, respecting perhaps more technical reasons that the Office of Auditors has suggested here at this time, which is to propose a joint presentation of the results and even a joint commission. So I have a completely different opinion about it and I think we should be very sensitive about it. Obviously, there is still one understanding that Parliament with one home and Parliament with two homes is not the same. Obviously, we need to understand each other well, and we in the House understand this well until we agree that there is no basis for a single budget or logic to talk about the single revision, revision or control of budget spending. So in my opinion, these are things that are compatible. If we want to bring one-of-a-kind, we will uniquely control the cost. If we're making a separate budget, then we need to keep it separate and keep it under control. Personally, I think that we should stay on the solution and on the principle that each home individually controls, so first approves the budget, and then controls the consumption. So that's what the elemental foundation of the two - house congregation is. It's more of a fact theory than a Bosnian practice. So it's just that it's quite common and I don't think that under quotes of ease, or a little more efficiency should change such an important principle. What I like to hear and I use the opportunity here to direct the question to people who are most invited to answer that, so the people who directly did or examined the audits are next. We all know how the budget works. So there is one who or every institution has people or individuals who are in charge of preparing the Budget Proposal, so it is at a higher level of analysis, and then it is given at the top of the institution 53 to review it and committees and then to continue to pass it on to the competent institution until the final approval in the parliamentary procedure. I'm interested in the next one. Since they had the opportunity to review the spending of these funds, first the appropriations and the purpose is then the spending interest me in whether in their opinion there is room for us to behave more rationally, to spend more domestically. Is there room and whether there is a possibility that on some, in some items, we can reduce consumption without doing the same job and maybe transfer those funds where they are not, where they are missing, where we haven't made them available at all. I think that, I think it's... in that first function to control the legality of spending funds and then on that basis, so on the basis of the auditor's or auditor's office's report, the institution's auditors are launching their activities, if there are grounds and needs. Second, the second purpose and purpose of control, so budget spending, is to teach some of this by quotes to us who approve the budget. Unfortunately, it still seems more theoretical than practically clear to us. The budget is approved by Parliament, not by the Government. The money is given by Parliament, not by the Council of Ministers. All the money in the state normally gives Parliament through consent to the budget. Therefore, as one of those who participates in the process of approving funds for state institutions, ptiam gentlemen from the audit office thinks that there is room for household business and spending of funds to make certain savings and ask them to, for, for now, in the future when they are doing an audit report to make a special note that may not belong to that classical formula for making an audit report, one note in which they would suggest, so to us who have approved the budget and us who control the spending of that budget where they would suggest on which items could be saved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2546	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Velimir Jukić. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2547	In our summary report, we paid particular attention to the budget and put on what are the weaknesses. First row in budget planning and later in execution. When it comes to budget planning, we made several remarks. In the first row, too few deadlines are given to the institutions for the delivery of the budget, and the key problem in our view is that neither the Treasury Ministry, or the Budget Sector, has enough trained personnel, has enough capacity. This should strengthen the sector in particular, meaning for the budget, to analyse the budget by each institution and by each item within the institution. And we are confident and I believe that Mr Čengić is right to have the opportunity to save, but they also need the support of the highest body, which is the Parliamentary Assembly to consider individually means every institution and every item and to seek that savings. 54 Then, our proposal was to strengthen the first internal control system, to establish an internal audit system. This will significantly, significantly boost financial discipline, because these should act preventively before the external audit comes when we get here, things will mostly happen, we find it. And then you need to strengthen the legislation at the state level in the first row you've already mentioned here it's in the first row of the Payments Act. We absolutely support the adoption of a single law at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the adoption of a law on procurement. We also paid special attention to the purchases. It's an area that's very vulnerable to corruption. We all know that. This bill of law, I think, is very good and needs to be adopted as soon as possible and that this project and many other projects that the international community is pushing here have been created on the basis of our recommendations. They read our reports very carefully. However, the fact is that domestic institutions and managers of domestic institutions, I have hardly seen any of our reports on the table. And that's one picture of the entire institution's condition. It's just that people don't understand that it's helpful for them. The key weaknesses found in this institution can thus be made by the other institutions of management and by taking measures to remove these weaknesses. Then pass a normal law on funding, on finance, as it is now called, if that's a good name we'll see exactly where budgeting, audits are regulated, etc. This will significantly improve the discipline of financial users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2548	Thank you, Mr. Miletić. Here comes Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2549	At the previous point, I didn't praise the excerpt we received in the tenth month, but I personally think it was well done, that even the way we presented it, or that booklet of a handsome format, etc. But I don't know if it's exactly what it says here in the work programme for this year that it's been well presented, that it's caused a lot of attention, and I'm going to believe that that's how I didn't notice it. However, I believe that the work of the Audit Office is extremely important and important and I think that we should support in every sense what is stated in your work programme. You have also cited staffing, improving the material technical conditions for work, part of you have already seen and done it yourself, I think it is extremely important and important and I think it is particularly important and important to work and other offices for review, I think of entities, but I believe that the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina must be an example to others and that we must first bring into order the financial and any other operations of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for example to others. The only thing I don't agree with here, or what I would suggest, is I talked about it a little sooner, if it could be a little sooner, so it wouldn't be the end of the 9th, as you said it was practice in other countries, if it could, I mentioned it by the end of the 6th or 7th month. I think that would be an added one to the acuteity of this subject. 55 There are also previous audits and final audits in your 2004 work programme. I think it's important and previous audits, because they're actually more of the ones that the results warn users to correct their repairs. It would be very interesting in the reports, in fact the final and final audit mention whether and which institution has acted in accordance with your recommendations and findings from this previous audit. I think what you said yourself, I have noted to myself, so the Public Procurement Act that will make it possible for you to work much better and more efficiently, and not only for you, but for more responsibility, to make all institutions more responsible, for all budgetary milestones to act under this very important law. Also, when Bosnia and Herzegovina's wage law is passed in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, it will also be extremely important and important. And here at last I'll just say, we were like a parliamentary delegation visiting the Norwegian Parliament and we were, among other things, they thought it was important to take us to the institution of their audit. We met their way of working and they have a long tradition in it, so they went very far and they really audited the peak not only in the professional sense, but also in the people who are auditors are and morally whether it is very responsible and moral. It can't be easy to be an auditor. Once it becomes, then you really need to justify that calling. That's why I think here we have this audit, and it doesn't have a long tradition. I'm a little bit in and I'm giving absolute and full support to the work of your office and your review, and I expect this, if possible, to mean, what we've already agreed, you've accepted it, means that the reports are coming in sexually as the revision ends, and I think it's good that we remain that the commission of our home is working on its own, the commission of another home is also doing its job. It won't be particularly burdensome for you either, because one of you, as a general auditor, or your deputies will come, of course, if there is a question, when certain reports are considered, to clarify. It will not be so often, and I think it will certainly contribute and affirm both your work and the need for your work and the importance of the work of the review in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2550	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. We heard a series of exposures. I just want to, right now at this point to mention one of my experiences from these meetings that Mr Jukić spoke about with these European countries and European Commissions, European parliaments, various European institutions in European democracy, is often considered to be an institution that has property over the state. It's a starting point very often and it has to be known. One of the key institutions in European parliaments in European democracies is the revision. The budget and everything that happens in one country through the budget is seen what the state does, how much it does, how successful it is, what it develops, what it doesn't develop and how it moves. It is something that Parliament determines whether it is in that state. The institution called the audit is the one that monitors whether the budget is being used properly and whether budget users behave as planned. 56 That is why I think that in the next period, since we in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have some long experience with the revision of this type, my recommendation would be that my recommendation be that the Mrs Auditors and come on, I will tell the MPs in the Assembly, or the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for which they are in principle working and notifying themselves, because the revision is not intended. It is therefore the purpose of getting to know and explain to people who are passing laws on how the institutions behave. We need to work and build a new relationship, one more quality relationship, we need to build a nice communication methodology, and I'm going to say here now, I have to say that we both learn this discipline at this time. It is good that our colleagues in the audit have set up good and quality relations with, so I will now tell the Nordic countries that have experience, great experience in this audit, which have great experience in this business and it is good that this school of opinions in the field of audit is implemented in the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome you and indeed what you have done is good, but try and on your part to deliver these reports a little more frequently, to keep MPs in office in a trend to know what they are doing in the country, because they must be responsible, and the revision is the best way to understand it all well. Thank you for what you've been doing and I think, please, I think we can go now and adopt this report and this operation in business, the business report of this agency of yours, the office, it is. Is anyone else picking up? Did you get that? You're my friend.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2551	I'm sorry. My support for the report on the work of the audit office is indisputable. The main auditor, the structure of staff in the audit office with 31.12, I think it's a satisfactory and educational structure. I know the national structure is 1-1-1, but I'm interested in the administration and the audit staff downstairs. Perhaps a brief national structure, since I very often ask here a question of national representation, not only of my people but also of other peoples. Here's what I'm interested in for a little while, you can go from place to place, you don't have to get up and it won't affect my vote to support the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2552	So I think the national structure according to the '91 census. As far as I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2553	I'll be brief, since we were internally agreed to do the first audit with mixed teams, so that the teams would be from all three nations, so that we made sure that the first audits were done. That teams count three men and go to institutions, if the Croat is headed by the leader of the Srbin team and if the Bošnjak Hrvat goes to the leader of Srbin and Hrvat, so that the first year we wanted to create such an atmosphere that we are one impartial 57 independent institution. As time goes by now, we don't achieve that balance when it comes to neither national nor we stick to this '91 census. A year. I'd only mention, once I've come up with an example of Belgium, for example, that has two key peoples. One counts 31-50 percent. However, they know exactly how many auditors there are. They've got 150 auditors, valonians, 150 Flemish auditors. I think it's an interesting idea and it might be a good idea to discuss even that when our law comes a new law on revision here to the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2554	Thank you. What do we do now? I think we've exhausted the discussion, that here we are satisfied with what our auditory office did and I'm putting the report on the business of the financial audit office for 2003 to the vote. Who's to accept this review report? Who's in? Now. Great, we all voted. Did we vote? We have this - 12 for and so unanimously. Thank you very much, colleague. We do it really well. The 19th point of the day is Ad.19. Central Bank's report, Bosnia and Herzegovina's annual report and under (b) a financial report by the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003, please welcome. You've received a report from the commission. Is there a commission here? Here you go, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2555	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, the commission also discussed the report on the Central Bank's annual report for 2003 and unanimously accepted it. I would now like to say about this second financial report, the commission also accepted what it proposed, namely the House to launch an initiative in co-operation with the BiH Presidency and the Central Bank and the Council of Ministers to launch an initiative with this commission from the Representative's House to amend the BiH Central Bank Act in a section that regulates the distribution of the Central Bank of BiH to focus part of the Central Bank's profits on the needs of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Committee for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples shall be appointed as the institution and coordinator of the initiative, and for the House of Representatives their commission. So 58 we discussed this report and we gave a unanimous report and an annual report and in the financial report what was the main question is whether we can get information from the Central Bank, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina whether it can get some funding and then from the representatives, or Vice Governor who was present at that meeting that says that the current law regulates so that the total profit of the Central Bank has to go over 10% in order for something to cross 10% so that it can go into the common register of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then we asked if there was a possibility that what was below 10% of what the examples were doing between 7 and 10%, he said he couldn't and that he had to go on amending the law. Then we asked that an initiative be made, and the law was changed, so that it would be something that passed, for example, I speak freely, something that goes beyond 6%, so if we now have a profit of around 9%, it would be between 6 and 9 and that would be poured into the central register of Bosnia and Herzegovina that could deploy that part of the funds in the manner that the Parliamentary Assembly requires for all budgetary users, or for special purposes as it decides. I think this question is very important and should be supported. And as for the reports themselves, we unanimously accepted them, and we suggest that this House accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2556	Thank you very much. Is anyone picking up? I think it's a suffocation of banking, and you support it. I disagree. Please, I think it is. That's a good deal. Here we are. We have a gentleman from Central Bank.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2557	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not talking about the report itself, or the financial report. I thank you for the support that both this home and the Bosnia and Herzegovina's total parliament are giving to the Central Bank. I would just like to inform you that the Finance and Budget Committee of the House of Representatives was already held on Friday, in which the Central Bank participated and launched an initiative to amend the law. In this respect, the Central Bank will build up appropriate proposals to come to the debate and hopefully find a satisfactory solution in this regard. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2558	Thank you, too. So that's it, here's what we got. We are therefore going to adopt the Annual Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 59 Who's in? Now. Thank you very much. Here's a table showing that we unanimously adopted this report. Now we're going to adopt this, what is this, the report on the financial operations of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003. I'll put it to a vote. Who's in? Now. We're 11-1 here. So this report was adopted. Thank you very much. And I put the commission's proposal to make amendments and supplement laws that will allow the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly, i.e. the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to win over 6 meals. I didn't hear it, that it did reduce that percentage to 10% in profit-taking and make changes and additions to that law. Who's in? ________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Don't, you're a lot, and once, you're this guy. You just want to hunt her. Vote. Great. We'll repeat the vote at Mr. Brk's request. We vote now. Who's in? So we adopted this, and we adopted the financial report unanimously. Thank you very much. It's the 20th item of the agenda. Ad.20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Patent Organisation on Co-operation in the area of patents You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has given its consent to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate, and is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2560	Thank you. So, we won't be long before the commission has considered this agreement, it believes that this is a common agreement for Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to ensure the protection of foreign patents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus 60 reciprocally we can and vice versa and the commission proposes that this House be given consent to the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2561	I am putting on the vote of the Agreement on ratification between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Patent Organisation for Co-operation in the area of patents. Who's in? Vote. Thank you very much. So we have 12:0. So we unanimously adopted this. It's the 21st point of the agenda. Ad.21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Trade and Economic Co-operation Agreement between the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers and the Swiss Federal Council, the House of Representatives adopted this report by the committee in charge. Hasane.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2562	Our commission has been considering this agreement as well. This is the usual bilateral trade agreement, which, among other things, defines, for example, Article 3, that the Contracting Parties, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Switzerland, will give the treatment of the most privileged nation in relation to the customs and duty requirements of any type or in relation to imports or exports of goods or prescribed for international transfers. So we think we should give consent, and in this sense we suggest to the House that we give consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2563	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. I think we all agree. I am putting an agreement on trade and business co-operation between the Council of Ministers and the Swiss Federal Council of Votes. Who's in? Vote. Thank you very much. So we adopted this unanimously, this ratification agreement. The agenda of the 22nd is Ad 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on road transport of passengers and cargo The report of the competent commission, I must point out that this House, the House of Representatives adopted this, will receive reports, and the committees responsible, Mr Čengić. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2564	The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy therefore considered this agreement as well. It refers to the transport of goods and people in customs transport between the two countries. It is common, facilitates transport between the two countries, regulates normally all rights and obligations and we propose that this home be given consent to this, this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2565	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. I'm staying here, since there are no debaters to put to the vote and this ratification agreement with Denmark. Who's in? Vote. Thank you very much. I think we're doing it fast. Here's what I learned. We're back at that opportunity somewhere unanimous. Thank you very much. Yes, we unanimously voted this agreement. Ad.23. The conclusions of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House on the Information of the Ministry of Security on the attachment of TV Balaro and the problem to hear Mr Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2566	Our commission considered this at the previous session of the Commission. It's a show on Italian TV RAI 3 where Bosnia and Herzegovina is designated as the place where terrorist activities are organised, with a large number of terrorists. Unfortunately, it was done in a way that a documentary film was shown, and then a debate was held in a study involving the foreign minister of Italy who did not support it did not clearly deny such claims by journalists. We discussed this information, bearing in mind information from the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission adopted a conclusion saying it supports Bosnia and Herzegovina's principle policy on the condemnation of terrorism. The Commission considers it unacceptable to carry out a flat-rate assessment on that emission, but also in some other inscriptions in the Italian press almost identical times. The komisja supports the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our embassies in Rome and consulates in Milan and the Commission is asking the Foreign Ministry after this information is adopted, so the information of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is adopted at the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to provide all the DKPs with information and instruction on continued behaviour and finally asks the Ministry of Security to take whatever it takes to address outstanding issues and problems related to the monitoring of this issue at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission proposes and asks the state institutions to establish those institutions for which there are already laws, and 62 which would allow greater control, therefore, security within Bosnia and Herzegovina and illegal activities. In that sense, we believe that what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done so far is necessary and well. We expect other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to continue on the same background.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2567	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. Do we have a discussion, or will we adopt this report by our commission and say that the House of Nations is passing it on to the Council of Ministers, yes, I to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2568	This report should, in fact, be forwarded to several addresses and to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Security and the Presidency, etc. We also asked the Council of Ministers to inform the Italian authorities that the Senate of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the House of Peoples, had considered this issue and taken these views. I'm only taking the opportunity to remind myself of another case that actually alarms her or would have to alarm all serious people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the case with a Bosnia and Herzegovina citizen. At least according to the writing of the press and the domestic and world-sanela sjekirica Sekirica, which was somehow brought into contact with a terrible terrorist attack in Madrid at a train station. Our media has written about it, even made contact with Mr. sjekirica. However, it is happening again that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we react in a slightly strange way, we react more post-festum and from the point of view of sensation than objectively. It was natural that, it was clear to everyone, if he had stayed in Sweden for 5 or 6 days and the Swedish authorities did not take any action to bring him in, arrest him, limit his movement, etc., so it was not requested by the Spanish authorities or address, they would surely have done so immediately, that he was returning, and all the time he held himself, even in the Bosnian public any tension that he was very likely bound by these terrorist attacks, that after being heard, after giving a statement to the police, he was normally allowed to function further. In other words, unfortunately we in Bosnia and Herzegovina as if we are not aware that every binding terrorism to Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially when there is no basis for this, has so far proved to be no basis, we are actually coming into a situation to discredit the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the international position of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which directly affects foreign investment, the interest in business in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What someone else may be able to answer, out of Bosnia and Herzegovina to put Bosnia in this context, we often cannot influence or have reasons, but we in Bosnia and Herzegovina must make sure that 63 are really good and systematically fighting terrorism and all organised forms of crime, but at the same time we are objectively informing our own and international public and that we are doing everything that Bosnia and Herzegovina does, but also in public too, far beyond unobstructive information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2569	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. I think yes, here we heard. I am voting on this report by the commission and the proposal so taxing, that I would now not repeat how Mr Čengić said that we should deliver this report to the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina for which he is, it is the Council of Ministers, Ministry, Assembly, Security Service, etc. etc. And here I put it to a vote. Please, I'm putting this conclusion to the vote. Please. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2570	I would only like to say with what we have heard from Mr. Čengić since it's about little Sanel Sikirica, a Herzegovic from Mostar, that she was drowsy with information, not only Bosnia, but also Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2571	I think that's what Čengić means anyway, but it should be noted well. Well, I guess you're Bosnia. You're all Bosnia and Herzegovina, what Republika Srpska? Thank you very much. We're talking about a country here, not regions. Thank you very much. Please, we have here, if there are any MPs here, all MPs have come to the conclusion of this. You're okay, brkati, what I'm saying is so much. Who's in? Now. Thank you very much. Are we done with everything we've got now? Let's see what the score is. Unanimity. Thank you very much. So we adopted this unanimously. And we have in this agenda point issues with the dairy industry In this situation that we had with farmers, our commission has found it appropriate to discuss this problem, and that this home has informed us everything and has given us in that sense several suggestions and conclusions. Mr. Čengić. Here you go. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2572	So, unfortunately as a commission we thought we'd talk about milk. In the end, it turned out that we talked not only about milk, but about agriculture and about the economy and about imports and exports, about customs duties, about taxes, about laws, about regulations. The Commission has discussed it twice. Once, we were pleased to have representatives of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of the Federal Government, invited the RS Ministry for justifiable reasons, and it was particularly important that we have the opportunity to have, that is, representatives of milk processors, the largest, two dairy farmers in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the last year bought 50% of the total purchase of milk. So they were representatives of these great milkmen. After a long discussion in which everyone participated, discussions on the presence of experts and representatives of this veterinary office or agency of BiH, and so on, after another debate in which the Commission discussed the conclusions without the presence of experts, we came to this summary proposal of conclusions in which we are very briefly suggesting and we think it is necessary: - to pass the state law on agriculture, the state strategy on agriculture, - that a number of sublaws should be adopted, - that it is necessary to establish standards in milking and processing milk to bring to the level of the European Community, - that training centres, centres for breeding cattle should be established, - that centres should be provided for financial incentives and favourable credits, etc. In any case, we can ensure that projects of domestic products, or home stamps, can go outwards. Finally, I propose that this House adopt these conclusions and forward them to the Council of Ministers, all of which is directly in a time-consequence with two things – with the adoption of a strategy, the overall development strategy. These conclusions are entirely coherent with the conclusions on agriculture in this strategy of development of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, unfortunately, it coincides with growing and larger problems in agriculture, in the production of milk, in the production of poultry, etc., and related to the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina under certain bilateral agreements, according to a future agreement with the VTO regarding imports controlled, not controlled, in connection with incentives that Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state, or entities do not provide, are insufficiently provided. In other words, we believe that a well-organised strategy and implementation of this strategy is really needed, and for this reason we hold that the proposals that we have here are actually in line with everything that seems to be and should be done this and next year in this area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-26-0.u2573	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. We heard Mr. Čengić's statement. Do we have any objections to exposure? We don't. I'm putting the commission's report to the vote and the adoption of these conclusions with a sign of where they should go? Who's in, please? Thank you very much. And this time we voted 12:0, so unanimously. I want to thank my colleagues first and thank everyone in the congregation. I'd like to inform you that the College of the House of Nations has scheduled or already scheduled, has decided to schedule the next Assembly of April, May pardon that will be somewhere beyond 12 hours safe with the agenda you will receive. I ask the Commission, the Constitutional Commission, to meet by 4 May at the latest by 4 May and to submit to the Commission a report on the Education Act and, if we happen to come to, in a position to get the Public Procurement Act to look at it a little bit, and it may be on the agenda too. That's what we'll discuss. I thank you and wish you good luck. Thank you very much. The session was finished at 17.50.
