ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3893	...information, I welcome you and open the 36th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session there are 12 delegates present at the moment, but we need to be joined by colleagues Genjac and colleagues Radovanović, here is Radovanović. So, currently four of the Bosniak people, we expect a fellow Genjac, all five of the Croatian people and four of the Serb people. For the 36th session of the House of Peoples, I propose the following updated agenda. One, one. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. Proposal for a law on sales of products and services in first reading, 3. Proposal for an Excise Act in BiH, first reading, 4. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the establishment of a Financial Co-operation Framework Programme, 5. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit and Guarantee between the Government of BiH as a guarantor, the Government of the Federation of BiH as a sub-guarantee, the Public Communal Enterprise Vodavod and the sewerage of Tuzla, as lenders and Hungary's Export-port of the LLD Bank. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Who's answering for a word? So no one's answering from their colleagues. I'm closing the debate. It doesn't mean change or complement. We can conclude that the agenda was adopted, so without a vote, since there were no different proposals. First item of the agenda, Ad.1. There were no questions of delegates and delegates' questions of answer to delegates' questions. Any new delegate questions? Mr Tomislav Limov, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3894	Dear Mr. President, and gentlemen of the vice president, distinguished colleagues, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, professional services and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, respected representatives of public information funds, I don't know if I have to resist 2 anywhere or this good. So I hope you heard what I said, apparently this one, is just a greeting and I'm giving you the satisfaction that we're still here and at this time we're going to work. Nevertheless, I will take the opportunity to ask two envoys questions. I am motivated on the one hand by the fact that, from time to time, one practice appears in BiH and on the other, a certain reaction to this practice, so I was motivated to officially ask two questions from this speaker to the Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers. Before I read them, let me just say as an introduction to my position. For me, politicians are always welcome in BiH, especially those from neighbouring countries, on condition. First, not to interfere with our internal affairs, secondly, to respect our constitutional order, territorial integrity and international subjectivity of the BiH state and thirdly that they are ready to help us on our way to European Euro-Atlantic integration. My questions to the Presidency and to the Council of Ministers are read; firstly, they want to go and which BiH institution will officially react to the inappropriate practice of individual politicians from the Republic of Croatia and the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, who are part of their electoral campaign in BiH and who question publicly the constitutional and legal structure, territorial integrity and integrity of our country. And secondly, what opportunities BiH authorities have with regard to preventing and sanctioning the mixing of BiH's internal affairs by various BiH politicians of the type Pašalić, Nikolić and others alike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3895	I thank my colleague Limov. Who's answering the next delegate question? Here, I have a few questions. A report submitted to the UN Security Council by chief UN prosecutor of The Hague tribunal said that 10 out of 12 war crimes suspects are mostly in Serbia-Montenegro, and that they cross the border occasionally, BiH's territory. As the decisive reasons for the establishment of the BiH State Border Service Intelligence Agency and the SIP at the state level were those of more effective work to carry out obligations to The Hague tribunal, this way I would like to ask the following questions to the State Border Service. Since the State Border Service is the only authorised body to control the state border and the 10km border belt, whether it is considered responsible for the failures listed and Reported by Mrs Delponte and how they explain the fact that no more serious action has been taken to prevent these persons from crossing the state border, or whether they have launched an initiative to bring them in. The BiH SIP Investigation and Protection Agency and the OSCE Security Intelligence Agency, since the need for effective data collection as a basic precondition for effective implementation of obligations towards The Hague tribunal has been cited as the main reason for their formation, i.e. to transfer competence from entity to BiH institutions, it is necessary to provide an answer whether they have taken any serious action to realise these tasks. 3 I am also asking for an answer to the question, is it true that RS Interior Minister Matijašević has provided only one and not verified information of this type to the RS MUP during this whole time since their formation and beginning of work. Whether they feel responsible for not fulfilling the basic tasks and objectives for which they have been formed, and whether there should be co-operation relations between them and the RS MUP, i.e. the law establishing the obligation to supply data as well as other authorities responsible for organising obligations to the UN tribunal. Thank you. Mr. Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3896	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I ask the College of the House of Peoples do we have Vadu BiH? I, as far as I know, have the Council of Ministers and we are already beginning to sign agreements and agreements between the BiH government and other states, and so do the chairman of the commission and acting as Secretary-General of the BiH Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3897	Who are you asking your colleague, Šiljegović?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3898	College, you've made the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3899	Here's if I can answer right now or we'll wait for the next session. And I can do it right now, but we'll wait for the next session. We're not going to do this right now, we're going to continue to do some serious work, and you're going to get an answer at the next session. Any more delegate questions? No more questions. I conclude the first item of today's agenda, these are the answers to delegate questions and delegate questions. Moving to the second item of the agenda is, Ad2. The proposal for a tax on the sales of products and services, we have it in our first reading So this is the first reading of the law under Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first and second readings at the 49th session, so today's session, with 14 amendments. 4 I call the hearing, who answers the word? Niko one's answering for a debate, if you're a colleague of Filipović's, no. There is an authorised promoter, Mr. Kumalić. Here you are, Mr. Kumalić, since I see you have a desire to address this high house.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3901	Well, here's an intense two days of working on the adoption of these two laws, that is to say, on committees. First of all, I would like to say that, in the context of the collapse of the tax system, it is a significant place to adopt these laws within the framework of an indirect taxation system, i.e. The Act on Tax on Transport of Products and Services and the Act on Excises. First of all, we are well aware that what our tax system was, that it practically existed three tax systems, at the level of the Federation, the RS and the Brcko District, that it had violated a single economic space, that such a tax system had been laid down by corruption and that we were away from these euro integrations. Now we're finally in a position to make that big move. This has not been easy, but since 2000 it has worked intensively. The first phase was harmonisation of existing taxes. I'm talking about the sales tax of products and services, as well as the excise tax. And no matter how much success has been achieved, however, some differences remain, so only in this proposal has been made final, it has succeeded in achieving harmonisation of the existing tax systems, so that a single tax system that meets the criteria of the market economy, i.e. a single tax on the marketing of products and services is obtained. In particular, I would like to stress that the entities and Brcko District have agreed, they have this proposal together with the Indirect Taxation Administration, that this law is a transitional character that it is only until the introduction of value added tax and that there are retained meanings of those existing three rates, zero rates, 10% rate for basic food products and some needs as well as 20% rate. As far as excise duties are concerned, they have been significantly increased compared to the existing ones, just to point out that they have been increased for reasons, since customs duties are decreasing. In the past and this year alone, customs have been cut by 240 million. So the goal was to increase customs duties, so that the level of income achieved as earlier years would be maintained. It should also be noted that it is important that the subject, these customs goods,... highly excise goods, that there is increased, the flat-rate amounts to, that this compensates for what will be and will be consensual and reduction that will be by introducing VAT, because we know that there is a rate of 17% and now it is 20%. It should also be noted that when these two laws were passed, certain standards that rule in the EU had to be complied with specifically with by the directives that regulate these taxes, but also respect the agreements that we signed with neighbouring countries, and we are also working to join the World Trade Organisation. Therefore, I would particularly like to emphasise that excise duties must be the same on both domestic and foreign products and that the subsidisation of the economy, which needs to be done because there are many amendments that are logically justified, but that this should be resolved in another way, creating funds for subsidising certain branches and individual activities is a much better solution, so that they are in a trend like other countries in transition, i.e. the EU. I'll start with just that. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3902	I thank Mr. Kumalić. The president of the committee, would you? Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3903	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the House, representatives of the Council of Ministers and others present, I must say that the commission had a rather complex task and within the time period given by this House, we were obliged to review the 23 amendments that appeared sexually, unfortunately in front of the Commission's session itself and then further when the session went on, then even more so appeared. We were scheduled a session for yesterday, on a proposal and the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, to sort of do a job yesterday to open up a home space so that I could work today. However, it was impossible to hold a session yesterday, as the meeting of the committee responsible for the House of Representatives lasted from 10 to 11 a.m. to 4 or after 4. So we held our session this morning and we had what I said before 23 amendments. There have been amendments that could be characterised more as amendments of almost technical nature, amendments to text, clarification of text, etc. which did not fall into the essence but there were other amendments that were significant and that the commission had been having a debate, it was even clear that the mood, the individual mood of the board members to adopt such solutions. However, we have found that in this moment, there are limits that are in fact insurmountable. The first restriction is that we have the position of the Parliamentary Assembly as well as the OHR, that these laws, which are therefore also the ones on taxes and the Excise Act, should enter into force on 01.01 next year, in other words now on Saturday. In order for us to be able to realize this, it was clear to us that the laws that introduce new categories of obligations, new ways of accounting, probably adapting software, etc. It would cause significant procedures, and then we agreed that instead of going with these more radical measures through the change of this law, we would rather now go to the adoption of laws with certain changes that would actually maintain the principles and basic solutions proposed by the Council of Ministers and then come to a solution within a further period which would be a significant correction of this law. And to conclude, we had a total of 23, according to some of our analysis, just a little bit, about 23 amendments, of which the commission accepted 12 and proposed to the House that this law, together with these adopted amendments, should be adopted at the same time by the House to adopt the conclusion or conclusions that you would like, which would be particularly relevant, two issues which were touched by amendments which the Commission did not accept as such, and the conclusions would be in the next. So the questions about the vine oil, light and extra light, were Mr. Brk's amendments. And the issue of alcohol, therefore, of certain obligations towards alcohol and alcoholic beverages and wine, in order to comply with the treatment and position of tobacco processing, we have therefore taken the view that these issues should be resolved within 60 days and in this sense we propose to the House that it adopts a conclusion that the Council of Ministers and the Management Board of Direct Taxation, that within 60 days of the preparation of complete and precise solutions, therefore implementing solutions with which it will appear before the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which will then be considered and eventually adopted, so that these issues which are very significant and which we have estimated that we are not ready to do immediately and to start applying them on Saturday, so that we have brought solutions and started to apply, let's say, in some period after 60 days. We find these questions extremely important. So, indeed extremely important, and precisely because of this importance, we did not want to make a decision in haste, but at the same time, we believe that our House should be very clear in the request and insistence of the Council of Ministers and other competent institutions, that appropriate solutions must be drawn up within this deadline on which the Parliamentary Assembly would plead. Finally, our proposal is that this law in the text that would appear and include these 12 amendments accepted on the committee, we accept as a House and most likely that it will be necessary to form a committee to bring the text into line, so that we can possibly agree on that commission the differences between the versions of the text that will be adopted at one and another home, in order that perhaps we can get the final versions of the text in the course of today's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3904	I thank the chairman of the board of directors. Who's answering for a word? I don't see any more reports. Now, take your ballots, now we'll vote again the old way. Who is it to adopt the Tax on Transport of Products and Services Act in the first reading? Unanimity, 11. Mr. Jukić left a little while, he'll be back, we've got quorum. So the law in the first reading was passed. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. Who's in favor of having a discussion in another reading? Unanimously, it was adopted to conduct a debate, therefore, in a second reading. Since there have been no new amendments, we have received a report from the commission that has accepted 12 amendments as Mr Čengić said, which have become an integral part of the text of the bill. Do we have a moody debater? No Niko answered for the word. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. So we're voting on the law. Who's up for the adoption of the law? Unanimously, we were joined by a colleague, Jukić. So, given that the law in homes is adopted in different texts, we need to appoint members for the Joint Commission and bring the text into line. Mr. Šiljegović, please. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3905	Mr. Đoko Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3906	Thank you. The Bosniak club,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3907	Mr. Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3908	Mr. Hasan Čengić. My colleagues from the Croatian club, I don't see the boss. Ante Spajić, wait a minute, Čengić. So, from the ranks of Croatian people, counterpart Spajić, co-worker Čengić from Bosniak and counterpart Pajić from the Serb people, well. So, who's for this commission, Pajić, Čengić, Spajić? Comrade Limov, will you vote, please? Unanimity. So, do you agree with the proposal that the president of the committee in charge, Mr Čengić, prepare the text of this conclusion he spoke about in his presentation, so that we can adopt it when we adopt a conclusion similar to that of the Excise Act. I'm hooking up. We're going over to the next item on the agenda, that's A.3. A bill of excise duties in BiH, which we have in our first reading, please be quiet. So we have this law in the first reading by Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first and second readings at today's session with 14 amendments. I'm opening a debate. A kolega of Filipović,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3909	If I may just ask on behalf of the Croatian Club for a 15-minute break, about one amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3910	All right, break 15 minutes at the request of the Croatian Club. I'm going to ask the head of the Croatian club, explain the break, please, well, there was an additional adjustment regarding the potential new amendment, here I'll explain. [[PAUZA]] So we're going back to work. So the debate is under way in the first reading of the Excise Act. Is anyone answering for a word? Comrade Limov, extort. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3911	Dear colleagues and respected Mr. Chairman, of course this session is specific, given the fact that almost parallel or a little bit before us, works for the House of Representatives and given our determination to practically follow the work of the other home, during our work practically and the House of Representatives adopted a number of amendments and given that fact, I would bear in mind that a number of amendments have been adopted which, if practically remained in this case and it is evident that, according to the information we have received, colleagues at the House of Representatives have adopted practically 13-14 amendments, it is quite clear, and we have not had a part of these amendments. She did not have our commission, it is quite clear that this can be brought under new circumstances, and I will, in accordance with Article 89(3) of the Rules of Procedure, propose one amendment, which reads in Article 9, a new paragraph 4 reads, excise duties on the sales of oil derivatives, and paragraph 1(3) returns to the request of a natural person, in accordance with the Regulation and standards to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. Why does this need to be done? In particular, due to the fact that an amendment to Article 9(3) has been adopted at the House of Representatives, which reads – an excise on the marketing of oil derivatives referred to in paragraph 3 shall be returned to the request of legal persons in the field of health, education, culture and social work, in accordance with the Regulation and standards to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. I appreciate that it is necessary to achieve a uniformity, so that the solutions are consistent with the facts and the determination that the physical persons will be returned to the excise duty which they will, of course, pay from the moment this law comes into force, and of course I use the opportunity to say that I really need to do everything, or I am in the mood in that sense, that if there is an understanding in this respect, and that if they are not the rules above all of the business barriers and if we therefore accept such an amendment, then I am willing to give support and the law and, of course, that we practically form a commission, because it is clear that this one, in two different texts, is going to be adopted out of the way if we don't leave everything like this and these natural persons here simply, we don't understand that we are equating them with the right persons in terms of their right to return the act that they will be charged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3912	I thank my colleague Limov. Who answers the word next? Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3913	Mr. Chairman, if I understand, we are now talking about the Excise Act in BiH and I am glad that I had the opportunity to speak, I think we should have given the opportunity and if you don't mind, I think it would be good to give the first pirate to the Council of Ministers, any of the two present. And here are Mrs. Minister and Mr. Deputy Minister, to brief us on this, and then perhaps after that, as chairman of the committee, I would explain what the commission was doing and conclude. If you don't mind, I think the law is serious and it would be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3914	I accept the proposal. I must say, I didn't notice the finance minister when she came in. I greet her and give her my word. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3915	I welcome you. I'm sorry I didn't come to the beginning, but in the meantime there was already a session of the House of Representatives and I was at the House of Representatives meeting, you heard the results of the vote regarding these two laws. I would just return to the same thing that I tried to pass on to them on behalf of them and the Administration for indirect taxation and those meanings that the law in the original text wrote to them as it is on behalf of the Council of Ministers who supported and forwarded such text to you in the procedure. The point in all is that these are not new laws, that it is old laws with existing territory of the Federation, the RS, the Brcko District, and in one and the other cases which have not unfortunately been processed in a way that achieves a more quality, new, better text of the law, but is really made that, unification, harmonisation and tax rates in the first law and then all these things treated by this second law. It was the fact that, since tax laws were first passed at the state level, and especially after this long-term debate that preceded these two laws, VAT stories, to try to explain and prove that the law at the level of the country that is now approximated is now a law that, with a certain number of amendments and in technical terms improvements and in certain essentials of improvement, but which is closer to these original laws, would mean that it would allow it to enter into force 01.01, so that the rules would be made, because the rules are much broader materials, three times wider, which explain these procedures, which are already known by taxpayers. Anything else that would now be added, which would change, which would even improve the state's revenues in this case, would not be good because the time is very little and how the law will apply is now much more important, related to the application of the Single Account Act, to the payment of indirect taxes, to this unique account and of course related to the distribution of that single account. So the enlargements that have taken place in the law are important in terms of what fiscal policy means, how to run fiscal policy, how to manage the revenue achieved tomorrow or lost revenues, how to make up for it, how to ultimately keep those budgets alive. The story of the increase, how there was in the first place an increase in excise duty rates on tobacco. You know that, since we all come from entities by birth, since, the story has started so that we're understanding, means total problems with funding budgets in case we're already signs that we're going to introduce VAT now for some time to a year, and in case we have a very much signed free trade agreement with neighbors and other countries and we know that we're losing a certain type of income, we're losing customs duties and these revenues, these revenues have to be compensated in some way, the question of how much to which extent and how they're going to be deployed. The issue of the Transport Tax Act is one short-term question. It's the law until one year, it's going to be replaced by this VAT Act. The Excise Act, on excise duties, is a law that will always follow the VAT law in a way that would be good for it to be next. That even the law that needs to be adopted now somehow, have the strength to adopt it, in which it means the original form, it will need to be upgraded, it will actually need to be written for some time by the new quality text of the Excise Act. It will be necessary... in this case, if we're going to split the law into the specific types of products that we tax, we need to think carefully and act quickly about how we need to expand the tax base with a lot of products that are mostly used by richer people than some people who unfortunately can't consume these things, they can't buy, a lot of gold, fur, expensive cars, airplanes, etc. All this means what will give the law one full power and together with the VAT Act will make one quality new set. But now, to introduce the Excise Act and expand it with the existing problems that we have because we don't have 10 tobacco laws, and then we extend this law and rewrite half of the Federal Tobacco Act to this law. Well, we're doing some stuff about alcohol and wine, because we don't have those laws, so we're trying to make up for this, so because we're not getting up, I don't know how to secure control anyway, yet there's this vine oil, that problem, so we say we need to charge for it. So this law, it's tax law, and tax laws solve tax payments, tax returns, so tomorrow it's distributed through some other laws. There must be other laws that quality regulate these topics. And so what we have proposed in this section is to make other laws that are basic laws. We cannot pass tobacco laws or excise duties or VAT laws, you know that we cannot pass in law which are contrary to the existing EU directives. We can, they can be different in the part that we can tolerate, so if we do 40% of the foreign trade exchange with EU countries and our exporters, although this derivative is very small in relation to imports, although we have this imbalance, although it needs to be repaired, etc. But 40% of exports to EU countries, they're official data, they're published data, they get preferential status. So they don't pay customs when they enter EU countries. By moving and changing customs rates, in a way that protects domestic production, in a way that we 5 marks pay more import, plus 5 marks on imports of any alcohol, wine, I don't know, cigarettes, compared to domestic ones, puts us in a position as a country to lose preferential status in the case of exports to EU countries. That's what we signed, and that directive has a number. I asked what number today, so it's some 2007 through I don't know 2000 since 18.09. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So whatever her number is, we've, uh, agreed on someone who's been to accept it, and we need to follow it. We live in that environment now. So we shouldn't be doing things against ourselves. We need to solve them in quality through other laws, quickly, to the satisfaction of citizens, the vine oil to the satisfaction of businessmen, tobacco and so forth but does not mean against ourselves, in a way that we now get a law that will not be applicable. We're going to get, of course, and we're going to get a lot of some kind, and here's what they're going to think is that this is some kind of attempt that isn't good because we didn't stick to the meaning of the framework that we're working in, and we should really, I've tried to explain it and there this, it was a little bit of a different mood. Now let's try to bring the law in the first version here's the way it is in the first version. And then let's really agree on how to make quick changes and supplement everything I've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3916	I thank the Ministrix. Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3917	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to inform you that our commission today, working on this law, had the least, we are not sure but at least 38 amendments. Of those 38 amendments, the commission adopted 11 and delivered them to you. I'll be very clear. Amendments adopted are essentially more technical in nature to clarify and improve the text itself or to specify certain indiscretions such as: If any solutions in the implementing rules are not implemented in time after the law enters into force, it shall be possible for the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority to use solutions for the whole territory from the existing entity laws and the Brcko District Act only until the final implementing rules are adopted. 11 I will now say here that, very clearly and responsibly, it is no wonder that some are trying to politicise this law. But I'm surprised that some other guy, uh, wouldn't possibly have enough political power to recognize it. I understand those who didn't, when they were in power did this job so they now need to doctor and d lecture on how it should be done now, when someone has already brought it to an end. That's the first one. Second, this law is tax law, it is a very important law, and he would have told the layman brother of the twin of the VAT law. But it's also a fact that we're often in a situation that seems a little bit frustrated with the fact that we don't run the entire macro policy, that we can't solve it from one time, that all the problems that exist here are economical, from the great trade deficit, and then on, then from a poor path we get some need to push it all into one law in 5-6 solutions in one day, without studying, without having a vision of what it really means, without quality solutions in the text of the amendment itself, and especially without having a clear picture of how it could possibly be applied. Let me explain it better. We decided on the commission in a very open and clear debate, in which we all agreed, that amendments that we did not accept at that time treat important, extremely important issues, we agreed to go in two steps. The first is to technically improve this law to the extent that, in our opinion, it has been improved by the amendments we have adopted. And secondly, to make a commitment to the Council of Ministers and the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority that these issues we discussed, I will then accurately count them, take and prepare solutions probably not only through the Excise Act. So no Excise Act, therefore not through amendments and fulfilment of the law... hence, and through the preparation and adoption of other laws which do not exist at this time and must be the basis and basis for these questions. So, let's give the Council of Ministers and the Administration 60 days, so that they can prepare those solutions and we can discuss them. We end up as a commission because we are aware of the importance and have reached the law, but also the importance of resolving these issues that this law does not solve, we have reached the next conclusion, that as a committee, if the Council of Ministers and the competent institutions, within 60 days, do not prepare amendments and supplement the law and necessary quality and complete solutions, that we, as a commission, will go with the amendment and addition of the law, which will solve this. And to be very clear, this is what I say on purpose, so quite intentionally, here are the very responsible people, my colleagues who I very much respect, who had at least the same reasons as those in the House of Representatives, for their amendments to Mr. Jukić, Brk and other colleagues who passed on to the Commission, who had amendments on the same issues, with similar or approximately similar solutions, they gave up on these amendments, because we came together to a clear position that we could not push the Council of Ministers and competent institutions into the implementation of a decision that would possibly be made on Wednesday, tonight, at about 10:00 p.m., and that would be applied at 1:00 p.m. Gentlemen, this is about the state, it's about great resources, it's about a lot of products, it's about the need to prepare from software to people who need to get instructions, so we have two situations. Or we'll pass a law that we can't apply, and we're consciously going into it that we can't apply it, and we're probably going to put someone in the field to a crime because he didn't apply it, because he didn't apply it like this, or we're going to do what's normal and necessary, and that's that at this stage, at this point, we're going to adopt the law in the text that's applicable from 12 01.01 next year, and then to whoever it's business and who can really prepare it, the Council of Ministers, the Governing Board of Indirect Taxation and other institutions, carefully considering the real state of the field, the experiences of others, and comparing those solutions, and keeping in mind our structure of the state, we're not at this time neither Germany, France, nor Croatia, nor Slovenia, nor Slovenia, but we have our reality of the institutions and functions in co-ordination etc. or possibly not subordination, to keep this in mind then prepare solutions that will first be complete, in the sense that this problem will indeed solve. Then, fully to bring into contact certain other solutions, we have a situation where we are proposed not to charge those 10% on computers and to charge for school equipment. So then we're going to pay 10% on the computer, because we're so advanced, we need computers, and we don't need any more chalks or hexes or triangles or any kind of globe, and I don't know what else. By what criteria did we give priority to this? Such questions would only be if we accepted these solutions that are necessary but at this point, according to my assessment and by a joint assessment of the commission, they are not possible on a day called 01.01. 2005, i.e. Friday night. Even in the day we're still going to celebrate the new year. So, keeping everything in mind, I'll just say, we've been here discussing excise issues on luxury cars, on boats, boats, yachts, etc. on planes, jewelry, gold and other special values, we talked about why tobacco, tobacco stamps are taken the minute when we commit to paying the excise fee, the minute we report that it's being prepared, that the stamps are printed, and we pay for alcohol drinks 7 days after I glued the stamp. So these and other questions that we've discussed are really serious issues, absolutely. In particular, the issue of products which are subsidized in the country of origin, and such products are large numbers. Now imagine what it's going to look like, to say that now some semi-fat, man-made cheeses that are subsidized, we have to chase them here, so put an excise on them, so until we find out who, as we're well informed, so which country, so which country, until we prove, will have clear evidence in one country that it's subsidized, the others will have no clear proof, all of which my lords have discussed, we've debated it all. I'm really sorry to say this, but the point is that I want to tell you, there's not one of these questions that this one is now proposing through some additional amendments and additional circumstances that we haven't really discussed. We discussed it seriously, discussed it from all sides, and concluded the following. Important issues and the issues needed, the issue of promotion of production, the question of the so-called the protection of domestic production which cannot through VTO but can in some other ways. Excise is just a means, the excise is not only a means of tax policy, but also a policy of incentives, development policy, a policy of relations with subsidized goods from other spaces, a policy of social policy in which we distinguish between those who have and live luxuriously and let them live, but let them pay, and those who cannot have such luxury and have nothing to pay for. Of course it's an important aspect, it's a social policy, and I have the impression that by now we're trying to turn everything into a semi-propaganda type, it's important to us to charge for that car. Not to mention the details now. I have to say, if I tell you about the details, then it'll be a cartoon. You have to pay for it, for example. an excise of 24 thousand KM, on a boat, on a vessel, on a 16-metre boat that can be covered with a cloth with two wooden boards and on another yacht that can cost 15 million euros the same, for example, 24 thousand KM. It's just not justice, it's just not social policy. It's only 13 causing dissatisfaction, because it is. So it's about issues that are really important, but that really can't stand for an hour and two. And lastly and finally, to be very clear, I don't think either of us would agree to give the task to himself, to do something he's sure he can't do. I am sure and responsibly insist, despite my good will to all the Council of the Minsitarians and all the institutions that will deal with the application and implementation of the Excise Act, that they are not ready to apply all of this. And we now have the next variant or to change the date of application of the law for another date there, so let us then discuss these issues or stay on the date which is 01.01.2005., with those solutions that are applicable immediately, and indeed from 60 days of preparation of the competent institution, discuss and bring additional solutions, laws or amendments to the laws that will allow all these other effects to be achieved. They're important, they're necessary, but if we haven't done something in eight years, because we haven't done it, often for objective reasons, not always, then I don't think it's possible to do it in half an hour. In that sense, I will be clear, and I will say the following, the amendments that are now trying to get into this debate, they did not exist on the committee, they were not the subject of a debate on the commission, and according to my humble interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, they cannot be the subject of debate. As for the new circumstances, what we're talking about is new political circumstances, but no other. Literally, don't be angry, literally new political circumstances. All the other circumstances were familiar to you, we discussed them on the commission and you can see through the report and through the views that will probably be expressed by my colleagues from the commission, that there are really no new circumstances. The only real new environment, the real new environment, would be to now push the institutions that are competent to implement this law, to implement it with possibly this defined amendments, without any implementing policy, without the instruments and without time to do so. For all these reasons, on behalf of the Commission and on behalf of our own personal name, while respecting the need for these other issues to be resolved in the future, I propose that the House accept the law with the amendments adopted by the Commission, to form a committee for text alignment and to ask as colleagues and as a House colleagues in another home that there is no discrepancies in the Coordination Commission, to accept the text of the amendment that is applicable and to get a law that will enter into force on 01.01, and to oblige the competent authorities through the conclusions to prepare within 60 days of the amendments that we will then apply when they are accepted and agreed upon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3918	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Before we proceed with the credentials, I will inform you that I will have to retire from the session for a very short time, I will not compromise the quorum. A colleague, Jukić, will take the lead in the session. I'll be back soon.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3919	We're going to continue the debate. Mr. Brka has come to the floor. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3920	I welcome you all and apologize that my voice is a little different because I'm going to try to be brief but I can't say a few words on this subject. Namely, this is all what Mr. Čengić said, that's how it is. And the difference between our House and the House of Representatives in the work, when so far the work of this House is analyzed, I think we were really very cooperative and very responsible. We have often been in a position to correct certain things that they bring to their home. You're all witnesses here. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. But that's understandable. There's more opposition up there and they're louder and that's how it works. It might be a little harder for them to work than it is for us here. But I want to say one other thing here. I don't think that we should make it difficult for our Council of Ministers to work, and with this amendment adopted above, which now puts us here because of objective circumstances under quotes, as an opportunity to accept that we are discussing it, brings our Council of Ministers into an impossible situation. I don't think this House should put them in an impossible situation. I'm one of the people who had 34 amendments on these two laws. And I was really very careful, along with my colleagues, not me, about each and every one of them, and I had an attitude. And today, we are all individually on the commission from Mr. Čengić, from Mr. Radovanović, from Mr. Pajić, we all understood that these things should be done, which they now wanted to do on the shortcut. However, we took another moment, because on our commission at the time, when we talked about it, was also our minister from the Council of Ministers who is now here and who spoke here. And we really made it very clear, and she accepted it as a minister and promised us that within 60 days she would go before Parliament with the proposed solutions, and since we weren't all satisfied, then we said if you didn't do it, this commission would propose to Parliament and it simply must be done. And because of that, I really appeal to our colleagues that we don't create a problem for the Council of Ministers because we put them in an impossible situation, they won't be able to do it. Simple enough to put them in jail tomorrow, I'm not ready for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3921	I thank Mr. Brk. Who wants to talk anymore? No more reports. I call on the MPs to make a statement about the law in the first reading. Who's in favor of the law in the first reading? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? 1 v, I find that most votes with 1 vote against, we passed the Excise Act in the first reading. I suggest we move on to another reading. In our second reading, we discuss amendments. Whoever wants to, we plead, I apologize, we plead for another reading. 15 Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I find that we have adopted a decision to go to another reading with one vote against. We're discussing articles. The debate is open. Who wants to talk? Mr. Limov, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3922	Your Honor, Mr. President, of course I will take the opportunity to say, by respecting what the predecessors have been saying, it is necessary to ensure that the conditions for this law to be applied within 2-3 days, I would like to say very clearly that this was not up to us at the last session, so we have already agreed on the proper procedure that was, so to speak. regular procedure but here we have now accelerated our activity with the intention of completing both readings today, which of course puts all of us envoys in a situation that we must, in a certain way, absorb what is being done in normal procedure during a longer period of time, especially as the minister says, this is not something special new, is it. This is just a project that goes to the state level and from that aspect, I want to say, in any case, to express my satisfaction that we are on occasion in a certain way setting this problem so that its application will provide the same criteria and standards, the same conditions on the territory of the whole of BiH, which is, in any case, something that you know well, I generally accept and support. However, given the fact that we have a relation to our environment, so in relation to the countries that are our neighbours, we still have a different set of problems. And for example, the Republic of Croatia compared to certain products, the minister mentioned some of these products, we have to say, differentiated things, for example when it comes to tobacco, we have basically three categories. We have one situation that objectively puts our production into a situation, with both our and our objective options in mind, in terms of protecting domestic production above all, to put them in an unfair competition. Because of that fact, I'm going to give you some information. Here, when it comes to this particular segment of tobacco production and industry. In the first nine months, according to the BiH Outer Chamber of Commerce, 6 thousand 120 tonnes of imports have been made from the Republic of Croatia to BiH, here the minister confirms that so, cigarettes or tobacco processing, is a product in the BiH area. Noting the fact that, here I am not smoking but those who do, they need 8 thousand tonnes in a year here in BiH and, of course, we are not, at the same time, able to take a kilo into the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The instrumentation, therefore, which we are now prescribing and projecting at the state level, is clearly not good and does not contribute to BiH. For example, the Rovinj tobacco factory bought our tobacco in the last year, 150 tons. That's 1% of her needs. At the same time, 40% of her production was placed with us. I, of course, keep in mind these elements, my amendments have applied, in part, to this ambition to introduce three categories. I'm not going to speak specifically now about the situation our tobacco people are in, because it's clear to you that after this, they will certainly be in an even more difficult situation. Noting the fact that thousands of tons are clearly located somewhere in view of the condition that we are constantly talking about and 16 of our inability to follow it all, follow it, etc. I'll tell you what. The black market. I think that at the last session, by passing the VAT law, we have created an assumption that in the next period the number of poor is increasing, and it will not be every fifth citizen in BiH as it says in our study and our medium-term development strategy document, I am afraid that this number will be increased. And I'm afraid with this adoption today, and it's quite clear in which direction this is going to go, I'm afraid that this way, in fact, we're also going to create some segments of our domestic production to make assumptions that they're going to get into a more difficult situation than what they're in today. I will not specifically refer to all these areas, because they are partly in the amendments themselves, not only to those I have directed, but also to the amendments of other fellow envoys. I respect their good will to withdraw them, but the fact is that there must have been good solutions among them. So, as an envoy to this home, I'm not taking any responsibility for coming to tea. Someone who analyzes this, in a longer period of time, our work will see that this isn't the first time. And they will see that some legal projects have been in place for two months, first of all in the Council of Ministers, which we have established at the last session and in a certain conclusion, we have tried to make it clear that this is incorrect and that it should be taken into account the conditions and time period in which the House of Nations, first of all, and I suppose is no better situation with the House of Representatives, is given the opportunity to discuss these extremely important things. I think that with a single excise duty, we will increase imports to BiH, increase BiH's payment deficit, lead to a very difficult situation, for example, tobacco production. Then, and of course others, not to mention the production of alcoholic, non-alcoholic beverages, etc. and all that is the object and the contents of this law. Of course we will bring the very production of cigarettes to a specific situation in BiH, and then we will deny our responsibility for what will happen, because of course the factories will handle the criteria of whether, markets set things up so that again, they survive even though I believe they will find it harder than they are today. The fundamental objective of the categorization that I tried to indicate in that amendment with regard to tobacco is to stimulate the consumption of domestic tobacco. Of course, bearing in mind what the predecessors said, it is quite clear that this, and the minister, too, asked practically not to step down, and given that part of the amendment that I have referred to in substance and essentially, we have this information at the House of Representatives was accepted, it is evident that if we remain in the fact that we do not touch the law, that this problem will be resolved at the session of the Joint Commission. I guess it'll be tonight or tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3923	I thank Mr. Limov. Who else wants to talk? Are there any more reported? There isn't. We will approach Mr Lim's amendment statement. Mr. Limov, Mr. Filipović, come in. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3924	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for welcoming all present, colleagues from the House of Representatives who are monitoring our work. I only asked for a word because it would be good if we didn't break the Rules of Procedure. Mr Limov submitted the amendment by referring to Rules of Procedure and Article 89.3. According to that logic, the College should be determined according to its amendment, we do not have that definition of the College. So, to respect or not to respect. If he doesn't respect the College, we won't say anything about it at all. That's one thing. And secondly, once I've got the word, I'll say two, three sentences only. Therefore, a break was requested at the request of one of the club presidents in absentia, the request was accepted. Without a break or a break, I believe this amendment would take place. In the first wave, it seemed quite logical, since the House of Representatives immediately before the request or before the debate on this item of the agenda ended with rdo and accepted one amendment to Article 9 and accepted paragraph 3 and were in a quite logical relationship with Amendment V and Amendment VI of the House of Representatives because Amendment V was accepted and Amendment VI was not accepted. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about this because I heard the minister, and I heard a very reasoned explanation from the chairman of our commission. I have seen that a very thorough, short-term debate on all the proposed amendments in general on this Excise Law and the previous law that we have adopted, and I think it will be very difficult for the Joint Commission to agree on both homes to pass Amendment v. jer it is clearly influencing the touch of a concept that violates the application of this Excise Act and even a package of these laws which we here and how we have to take care of. Therefore, I would give my personal support to the views expressed by Mr Čengić and our respective committee on the report we received on the table and about the intended one, so I heard the content, we will probably hear the full text of the conclusion that would follow the adoption of this law in the way our commission suggested. I felt the need to say so, so that you wouldn't misread the request for a break from the Croatian Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3925	I thank Mr Filipović. So we approach the amendment statement. Mr Limov has submitted, or renewed, all of his amendments that he has proposed. There were nine of them in total. One amendment was tabled by Mr Milojević, however, one amendment was submitted by Mr Milojević, but the amendment was also not submitted in accordance with our Rules of Procedure within the required time. ...he wasn't on the committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3926	...there was neither before the commission nor on the commission, nor until the commission's work showed up.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3927	So, I suggest we first declare Mr Lim's proposal to include his amendment in the amendments, he called for Article 89(3) that says. 18 After the rapprochement begins, the chairman will apply the new amendments only in the following cases in the connotations with the vice-presidents. ( a) When it comes to new aspects, which the Commission could not take into account or when it seeks to bring two or more proposals under discussion. True, we have so far had practice, that we have several times observed new circumstances, points 3 under a. or b. of this article. However, when it comes to proposing the same amendment, which was adopted in the House of Representatives. This time it's not about that. Mr Limov did not renew, or propose an amendment adopted in the House of Representatives, but another amendment concerning the amendment. There wasn't any of this on the board. So, after consulting with the College, this could not be taken and taken under this article, and yet in accordance with our practice, in the application of this article, I am really sorry, but the procedure is very clear. I think it should be really very precise and not change the point from procedure, from opportunity to opportunity. That's the college's attitude. There follows a statement on Mr Lim's submitted, or renewed amendments. Amendment I, which have been properly delivered to the Rules of Procedure, have been renewed, etc. These are renewed amendments. Here's the secretary to read the amendments, we'll plead on each amendment individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3928	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Other products, according to the Council of Ministers' decision, including those paid for incentivise in the country of origin, and not the subject of subjugation in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3929	We heard the amendment. I call for a statement on the amendment. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I find that we have rejected Mr. Lim's amendment by a majority vote of one vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3930	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In order to protect domestic production and markets, the Council of Ministers may, in addition to these laws, establish a specific excise duty on each product, whose import price has been reduced except for the export incentives of the country of origin. 2. The Council of Ministers is a special decision confirming the product. 193. The decision referred to in the preceding paragraph shall contain the name of the product, the name of the country, the name of the producer, and the amount of excise duty in absolute amount per unit of measurement. 4. On the decisions set out in this and in the preceding article, the Council of Ministers is obliged to report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly within 15 days of the date of adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3931	We declare this amendment to Mr. Lim. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I thank and realize that most of the votes against, with one vote for and one abstention, were rejected Amendment number II of Mr Lim.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3932	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the import products referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the excise duty shall be increased by 0,10 KM per litre.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3933	We declare Amendment number III. Who's for the amendment? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I thank and realize that most of the votes against, with one vote for and two abstentions, we have rejected Amendment III of Mr Lim.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3934	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the import products referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the excise duty shall be increased by 5 km per litre.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3935	We declare Amendment IV. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I thank and realize that with 1 vote for, 1 abstention and most votes against, we have not adopted or rejected amendment number IV of Mr Lim. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3936	Amendment V to Article 14 is amended and reads. 1. On the market of tobacco products, excise duty is paid according to classification. Tobacco processing from group "A" popular 30% cigarettes, tobacco processing from rough "B" standard cigarettes at 40%, tobacco processing from group "C" extra cigarettes at 70%. 2. According to the... group "A" within the meaning of this law, cigarettes with or without filters, soft packaging, containing at least 50% of domestic tobacco, with at least 25% of the lower readings and based surrogates of domestic origin, which were produced and first placed on the territory of BiH. 3. The B-based cigarettes within the meaning of this law are cigarettes with a filter packed in hard packaging, containing at least 30% of domestic tobacco, with at least 15% of the lower readings and based on domestic surrogates, which were produced for the first time on BiH territory. 4. Extra cigarettes from the "C" group are cigarettes, which do not meet the requirements of "A" and "B". 5. The classification of tobacco processing will be determined by the Council of Ministers, special regulation within 30 days from the date of adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3937	We're pleading for the adjective. Who's up for the amendment? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I thank and realize that by vote two, three abstentions and most votes against, we have not adopted, or we have rejected amendment V of Mr. Tomislv Lim.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3938	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. which reads. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. is paid for the total quantity imported, in the amount of the country of
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3939	We're pleading on the amendment. Who's up for the amendment? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I thank and realize that with 1 vote in favour, 2 abstentions and most votes against, we have rejected amendment number VI of Mr Lim. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3940	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the request of the Directorate for indirect care at the rate of forced collection, the BiH Central Bank is required to submit the number of all taxpayer's transaction accounts.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3941	We're pleading on the amendment. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I thank and realize that with 1 vote in favour, 2 votes abstentioned and most against, we have rejected amendment number VII of Mr Lim.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3942	Amendment number VIII In Article 26, paragraph 4 is added. The competent authority shall establish a valid request, make the refund referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this Article, within 30 days of the date of submission of the application.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3943	We're pleading on the amendment. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I thank you, I agree that with one vote in favour, two abstentions and most votes against, we have rejected Amendment vi to gospodin Lim.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3944	Amendment number IX The new Article 32a, which reads, is added behind Article 32a. All articles of this law, relating to the protection of domestic production, apply until BiH's admission to full membership of the World Trade Organisation of the WTO.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3945	We're pleading on the amendment. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I find that with 1 vote in favour, 3 votes abstentioned and most votes of the vote, we have rejected the Amanda number of IX Mr Tomislav Lim. We've completed our statement on the amendments. 22 We will approach the statement on the text of the law, with a report from the competent commission and amendments which, of course, have become an integral part of the text of the law. I call for a statement of the law. Who's for the excise law? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I find that most of the votes in favour, with 11 votes in favour, 1 vote against, without adversities, we passed the Excise Act in BiH. Now, since the laws have been adopted in a different text, please submit club members to the committee for text alignment. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. I suggest you do the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3946	The Bosniak club proposes Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3947	Thank you. Mr. Boško Šiljegović. I suggest, Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3948	Well, since they weren't accepted, I respect the view, I wasn't going to justify the amendments, because I heard it was... to renew, that essential amendment to exempt the toll. [[speaks from place and not heard enough exposure]] But, I heard, I don't have that conclusion, that the commission... of Mr. Radovanović that he was in that committee for the alignment...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3949	Okay. Wait a minute, I didn't understand, did you want this to be for the previous law or just for this law? All right, we'll respect the club's proposal, Mr. Boško Šiljegović. Mr. Anto Spajić and Mr. Hasan Čengić. Who's in? Who's against it? I also find that we have adopted a Commission for Text Matching. I suggest, I expect it to happen very soon. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.4. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the establishment of a framework programme for financial co-operation
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3950	...but since we don't have a committee yet, I suggest we discuss the next one. After completing the Commission's work on harmonising the texts, we should also prepare the text of the conclusions, in relation to one or the other law, and then make a statement. That's the conclusion. Just to be clear about the conclusion after we have the text of the law agreed, or what we're going to get I don't know, because we're going to need to see what the harmonised text of the law is, so that it can adjust those conclusions as well. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3951	I think we can appreciate this. Therefore, when considering the report on the conformity of the Commission texts, we will also consider the text of the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3952	Eh, now if you allow these two, then, these two agreements. It is essentially an agreement, a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Hungary and BiH, on a single development loan, totalling 5.8m euros and, in this case, intended to address, or improve, the water supply situation in Tuzla. The agreement has already been signed and ratified at all necessary levels except the Parliamentary Assembly. There is another agreement, which is based on this, which, in fact, addresses the contract issue between the final contractor, i.e. the final borrower and the lender, or the bank from Hungary, which will provide the technical credit and the public utility of the water and sewerage of Tuzla, and the sub-guarantee for this loan with the Council of Ministers of BiH is the Federation government. The credit would be given for ten years, plus a grace period of a year and a half. The loan would be paid back half-yearly in equal wars, with a $1.36 per cent loan on an annual basis, without the possibility of a change in credit. Since, until the credit is ratified, all the standards in this Agreement and the implementation of the credit are OECD standards and, given the fact that until the agreement is ratified, there is the possibility of a change in this credit rate, or interest rate. It is a suggestion that everyone involved in this programme, or process, that we today give consent to ratifying these agreements. As the Commission, we have been conducting a very serious debate, we have learned about the state of affairs when it comes to borrowings, we have also discussed how this loan will be treated, how and on what principles Tuzla has been chosen, why perhaps not another city and it has been found that there is one Council of Ministers document, which has set priorities at the level of BiH when it comes to these infrastructure needs and in this sense this credit related to Tuzla, which for decades has been major and serious problems in water supplying one of these loans that will be realised. On the other hand, the Hungarian party as a lender expressed its interest and willingness to provide these funds, under the conditions provided for by OECD standards and agreed under this Agreement. For all these reasons, and especially for the reason that it would be good to ratify the treaty, agreements or agreements as soon as possible, in order to go further, our commission has proposed to this home, to give consent to the ratification of this agreement and allow for further implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3953	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is there anyone else for raps? If not, I call for a statement on the decision to give consent to ratify the agreement between the government of 24 BiH, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on... a framework agreement, a programme for financial co-operation. Who's in? Against? Abstained? I thank and realize that it has not been decided by the majority and that we have not adopted this decision because there is no entity majority. Ad.5. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit and Guarantee between the Government, i.e. the Council of Ministers of BiH, as a guarantor, the Government of the Federation of BiH, as a sub-guarantee and the Public Communal Company Vodavod and the sewerage of Tuzla, as lenders and Hungary's export-export of LLD, however, the question is how much does this agreement make sense without this previous one, because they are tied up. Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3954	So I'm joining the chairman's assessment that this second agreement would make no sense without this first agreement and, therefore, that's definitely clear. We can't agree on how to spend money we didn't accept, that we didn't get. If we don't accept this first deal, there's no money. I would, however, ask, if possible, therefore, if possible, and I would like to hear the opinion, given that the committee has had a debate on this issue and that there has been a question of how these funds are being deployed, that is, this time to be very clear, the question is why the project in this case, or the money intended for this project, went to the territory of the Federation itself and not to the RS area, therefore. So that question was asked and we talked about it and the attitude was very clear. Since it is a series of projects, which have been accepted as a whole by the Council of Ministers, the Hungarian side has expressed its readiness and interest in providing funds for this particular project. This does not mean that when another government or possibly Hungary in another conversation on another project expressed its readiness to finance a project that is implemented exclusively in RS that there will be no opportunity for the government to give consent to discuss it. So this programme of infrastructure priority projects has been accepted at the Council of Ministers and as such, we believe in this balanced and from the point of view of entity representation, how we believe that it is balanced and from the point of view of the entity's representation, I would ask, if it is possible, two options, or to take a break, so we give our fellow Serbian delegates one more chance to consider this issue or, possibly, to decide on them and see the possibility of taking it back. Why? I'll be very clear only in one. I don't see this project in any way jeopardizing the vital national interests of any nation, nor in any way discriminates one entity against another. Why has there been a decision by the Government of Hungary to give consent to this project, I really cannot respond on behalf of Hungary. But that doesn't exclude that someone else will give consent to another project, which we will also implement here. So I think it would be a good idea if colleagues from the Serbian delegates' club, in some ways, could see if there was a chance that we could take this off and go into this process. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3955	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3956	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we've been restrained. We weren't in favour of this agreement. Why were we being held back? Because this agreement came about an hour ago. And yet this is an agreement, which in a different way regulates certain things about BiH's treatment as a guarantor than previous agreements. So, by accepting this agreement, we're going into a slightly different system, we're breaking certain principles, we're introducing new principles, so it's really a matter that we can't decide on and define ourselves for or against, whether we're doing it now or maybe we should take a little break, so let's see, let's consult with...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3957	Can I just say a sentence?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3958	Anyway, we're looking for a break after this to consult.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3959	I want to say one thing here. This is a little bit, first I welcome you all. This is a little deal, which is not common, which is not what we've been doing so far. However, here we have seen that the guarantee to repay the loan is a sub-garant of the Federation. I'm asking my colleagues from the RS to consider one thing. This is a loan for a specific job. Such concrete jobs will also be in the RS entity and it would be disastrous when they agreed, no, I am not a prophet and it would be disastrous if we tightened the situation on both people and we from the Federation do not vote for projects in RS, and RS lawmakers do not vote for projects in the Federation, then BiH has nothing to do with the development of BiH. I pray once again, I now ask my colleagues to reconsider, to try to find a good solution, which will lead us forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3960	I thank Mr. Pamuk. It's a stop from, let's use this break to get along. Let's see what we're going to do, then, half an hour. We'll continue at 18:30. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3961	Let's keep going. So, fellow delegates, we've stopped at the fourth item of the agenda and, here I want to inform you that the College has reached agreement on giving consent to ratifying this agreement and have obtained the conditions for us to move to the next item of the agenda, there is no vote. 26 Ad.5. Giving consent to the ratification of the credit and guarantee agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH as a guarantor, the government of the Federation of BiH as a sub-guarantee and the Public Communal Enterprise Vodavod and the sewerage of Tuzla as a lender and Hungary's export-import of LLD I am opening the debate. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives has given consent to this ratification. I'm opening a debate now. Is anyone picking up? Niko. So who's to give consent to ratify this agreement? I unanimously conclude that we have adopted this agreement. Now we're going with reports, reports from the Commission of People on the alignment of the text of the Transport Tax Act. Thus, a report by the Joint Commission on the effort to reach an agreement with the same text of the Proposal for a Law on Tax on Transport of Products and Services. We've received a report from the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95. Rules of Procedure, we plead, we vote on the Joint Commission's report at both homes. Who's in? So, sales tax. I agree with you that we have passed the Transport Tax Act. We move to the Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Excise Law in BiH. You also received a report from the Joint Commission under Article 95. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on a report from the Joint Commission both at home. I accept this suggestion, so, along with the conclusions that are part of this report. Who's in? Mr. Limov, therefore, is against it. The rest are in. I understand that we have passed the excise law in BiH and are finishing the session. I wish you all professional and personal happiness in the next 2005 and, if Bog gives you to work even more successfully and better for the prosperity of all the peoples of BiH. Mr. Spajić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3962	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here I congratulate you on this successful final session, and I went out for a pay phone to congratulate all those who celebrate January 7th, meaning Christmas Orthodox to spend it with happiness both them and their families, and I also wish you all a happy New Year 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3963	Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3964	Well, here I am also taking the opportunity to congratulate everyone who celebrates the New Year's Eve on this new calendar, that is, this year which begins on January 1st/Secret to congratulate New Year's and wish for good health, success in the work and as far as this house is concerned, that 27 I want to continue to work as we have done so far, because it seems to me that we have done a very big job, and little is left that it hasn't been finished since this year. On behalf of the Bosniak Club, I also take the opportunity to congratulate all those celebrating the Orthodox Christmas and the Orthodox New Year, we want health, success and co-operation in the further construction of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3965	I thank you for your good wishes and for the address of my colleague, Čengić. Comrade Šiljegović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3966	Thank you, Chairman. Since we haven't had dinner, our message will be much shorter, I'm kidding. On behalf of the Club of Serbian delegates, I wish all my fellow delegates and their families a lot of health and happiness in 2005, all the presentations of the Council of Ministers and their families also a lot of health and happiness, and I wish the Serbian people happy Christmas holidays.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-0.u3967	Thank you. This would sound even nicer next to the geese, but by the year we will. The seat is closed at 8.10 p.m.
