ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-30-0.u3562	Ladies and gentlemen, honored delegates, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome all present and open the 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session there are 11 delegates, four of them from the Bosniak people, three from the Croatian people and four from the Serb people. Delegates: Branko Zrno, Tomislav Limov, Osman Brka and Vinko Radovanović justified their absence. For today's 31st session, I propose the following amended agenda: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses, first reading 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the first reading of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the Proposed Law on the Court of Justice of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and the use of evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, in proceedings before the courts of BiH, will not be considered at today's session, as the agenda you received in the call for this session is still being discussed in the relevant commission. I would ask, before opening a hearing on the proposal for this agenda, given the importance of these laws by the Chair of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, to give us an explanation. Mr Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-30-0.u3563	Thank you very much for your word. Honorable gentlemen and all present, I must inform you that the Constitutional and Legal Commission today during a long period of time since this morning at nine o'clock discussed this set of laws, according to which Mr. Milojević's chairman said and that we have received the report you accepted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission three draft laws. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Witnesses under Threat and Threatened Witnesses and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. 2 There were no amendments to these laws. But there was an amendment to the law, a proposal for a law on the Court and a bill on the application of these cases, not to mention the whole long text of that law. The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office has been adopted on one small condition that, following the discussion of these two laws, which will be declared, or amendments to the debate, we will declare these amendments in the follow-up to the session and, if necessary, since the Law on the Court is amended, that, where it is necessary to intervene and to the Law on the Prosecution, it is therefore debated in this House at least in the second reading. We might be having a debate today and agree on the amendments and have today at home the Constitutional and Legal Commission's position, compared to a complete set of these laws, but that simply wasn't possible for us. It was not possible because OHR, who followed the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, who participated with us in the whole constitutional procedure and on the debate as a committee responsible, requested additional time to demonstrate the amendments made to the Court Act and the Law on the entry into force of the Hague tribunal. We simply understood the seriousness of the law that this House must consider and adopt, we realized that it is very important that we do so in order to be satisfied with the laws adopted in this House as parliamentarians, that these laws preserve the dignity of the state institution, which is called the Court of BiH and try in one dialogue with the OHR, therefore it took additional time to show about our amendments, to come up with compromise solutions, which would be found in that law, which would mean both independence and neutrality of the Court of BiH and its absolute independent work as a very important fateful BiH. Here, that's why, if my role is at all to explain the reason for the change in the proposed agenda. It's in college jurisdiction, but here's a thank you to the College for giving me a chance to explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-30-0.u3564	I thank my colleague Filipović, chairing the committees in charge, with the fact that I would like to make this correction instead of the OHR Proposer, given that, the OHR is in co-operation with the official promoter involved in creating this. I am opening a debate, therefore, on the agenda proposal and applying to my colleague, Nada Radović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-30-0.u3565	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that under the fourth item of the agenda, we put together a report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents of BiH. Since we have the text, I think the Dom has come to terms that the Dom can adopt a report to adopt the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-30-0.u3566	I thank my colleague, Radović. Anyone else answer for a word on the agenda? There are no reports. So we're going to open a vote on this amended agenda. Who's to adopt a agenda like this with four points of the agenda? 3 I'm opening the vote. 11 for, no one against, therefore, was unanimously adopted. I understand that the agenda was unanimously adopted. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of BiH, first reading So this is the first reading of the law under Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the law at the 44th session, held on 23 September 2004. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Since there are no reported ones, then, who is to adopt the law in the first reading? Open vote. 11 for, the Law was unanimously adopted in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You've received a report from the board of directors. In the second reading, to remind you, there is a debate on amendments and a vote on the law is being held, since there was no amendment, is anyone answering the question? There are no reports. So we're voting on the law. Who's up for the adoption of the law? Open vote. 11 For therefore, the Law was unanimously adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. Ad.2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses, first reading So, which is in accordance with Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the law at the 44th session, held on 23 September 2004. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. Who is in order for this law to be adopted in the first reading? Open vote. 11 for, the law in the first question was unanimously adopted. I suggest we discuss it in another reading. You've received a report from the committee responsible. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There was no amendment. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm opening a vote, we're voting on the law, you can vote. 11 for, no one against, no one abstention. The law was adopted unanimously in the same text as the House of Representatives. Thank you. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. 4 Ad.3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, first reading, which is in accordance with Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the law at its 44th session, held on 23 September 2004. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Who's in order for the law to be passed in the first reading? Open vote. 11 for, therefore, the law in the first reading was passed. With respect to what he spoke about by the chairman of the Commission, we will stick to the first reading, when it comes to this law. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. A report on the alignment of the text of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents of BiH You have received a written report. Mr. Ilija Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-30-0.u3567	It's short notice. So I have an obligation to say that an agreement has been reached and it is proposed to accept this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-30-0.u3568	I thank my colleague Filipović. Niko one ever signed up for a word again. Who is in order to accept the report on the alignment of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of BiH? Open vote. 11 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that a unanimous report has been adopted, thereby exhausting the agenda of today's session and I just want to inform you that the College of the House of Nations will be in constant contact with our committee and immediately after the Constitutional Commission's work is completed, we will schedule the next session. Thank you very much and cheers.
