ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3569	Dear delegates, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you and open the 32nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session, all 15 delegates are present, including five delegates from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people. The College of the People's House shall, on the basis of Articles 17j) and (l) for the 32nd session, propose the following updated agenda: 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. Record of the 30th and 31st meetings of the House of Peoples, 3rd. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on Seeds and Fruit Material of Agricultural Plants of BiH, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on the BiH Red Cross Society, 5. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the Law on Missing Persons in BiH, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, first reading, 7. Proposal for a Law on Jurisdiction by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in BiH, in the first reading, 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, Second Reading, 9. Proposal for a law on control and control of the crossing of the state border, first reading, 10. Proposal for a bill on payments to a single account and income distribution, first reading, 11. Proposal for a law on the financing of BiH institutions, first reading, 12. Proposal for a Law on Customs Policy of BiH, Second Reading and 13. Proposal for a law on the State Border Service, second reading. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Radović, come in. It was a mistake if it was nothing. Well, since there are no reports, there are no alterations or additions. This agenda is considered adopted. Moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions Answers to delegate questions were received earlier by Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija and Mr. Tomislav Limov. Are delegates satisfied with the answer? 2 I find, since the microphone was not included, that fellow Neimarlija was not satisfied with the answer, but he accepted the answer. A fellow Limov? Same thing. Okay. Thank you. Any new delegate questions? I don't see any of the reports. I'm concluding this point on the agenda. No Niko answered. Moving to the next item of the agenda, second Ad2. Records from the 30th and 31st session of the House of the Peoples Who Answers the Word? There's been an open discussion. I don't see any reports. I'm opening a vote on the subject of the minutes, the vote is open, you can vote for the 30th session. Two delegates didn't vote. Mr. Radović, are you involved here? What do we do now? Okay, the minutes have been adopted, but here are two delegates who haven't voted. Čengić and Spajić. Just check the cards and we'll see at the next vote. So we're voting on the minutes from the 31st session. I'm opening a vote. Thus, the minutes were adopted with both the 30th and the 31st sessions. Moving to the third item of the agenda, Add.3. A report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on Seeds and Fruit Material of Agricultural Plants of BiH You have received the Joint Commission Report under Article 95. Rules of Procedure, we must vote on the Joint Commission Report of both homes. The House of Representatives adopted a Joint Commission Report at its 45th session, held on 12 October. So we're voting on the Commission's report, the open vote. Again, someone did not vote or register it, this technique did not register it but was unanimously adopted, 14 for. I didn't notice Mr. Čengić coming out. So it was adopted unanimously. Moving to the next item of the agenda, that is, Add.4. A report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on the Red Cross Society of BiH has been received by the Joint Commission, under Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both homes. The House of Representatives adopted a Joint Commission Report at the 45th session on 12 October. Now we'll get to the bottom of this report. Open vote. Please vote. 3 13 for, again no technique registered. I'd ask professional services to check this out, but we're moving on. So this report was adopted. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Missing Persons Act in BiH, you received a report from the Joint Commission, as referred to in Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both homes. The House of Representatives adopted this Joint Commission Report at the 45th session, held on 12 October 2004. I'm opening a vote. Who's for the report? Excuse me, looks like there was a vote involved? It was a mistake with the technique. Here I repeat the vote. So, open vote, now. 14 for, unanimously. Moving to the bottom of the agenda, Add.6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, first reading This is the first reading of the law in accordance with Article 90. First, there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed this law under Article 105. Rules of Procedure, so by emergency procedure, no amendments. I'm opening a debate on this law in my first reading. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of passing the law in the first reading of the BiH Court? Open vote. 14 for, the draft law on the BiH Court of Justice was unanimously adopted in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. We have Mr. Čengić and Mr. Filipović reported, please welcome Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3570	I'd give Mr Filipović a head start.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3571	Before we go, I give my word to the President of the Commission, Mr Filipović. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3572	Thank you very much.....that it would be necessary, therefore, before the debate in the second reading, to hear the report of the relevant committee, the competent commission of the Constitutional and Legal which is obviously so much working so far and exhausting so far the largest number of MPs in this House on this topic has not even been discussed in the first reading. Then there was a report by the committee in charge, so that this one, through the debate before the report's statement and the amendments adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, could be discussed. So, if we're going to respect that order of things, I don't know if that's why Mr. Čengić gave me the advantage, to hear, before that, how things were going on on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So, as a competent committee, we discussed this law and the set of laws at all. We started in 30.09. after we received proposals from the College of Law, as the committee responsible we had the first session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission 30.09. There have been 15 amendments tabled by the MPs to this draft law by the representatives of the Court's framework laws, a broad debate, a long debate, attended by the motions and representatives of the OHR who were.... were incorporated in the preparation of this set of laws. After the first amendment to the Court Act was adopted, so I must tell you, OHR representatives asked for additional time for consultations on the amendments made to this law, and this additional time lasted until 13/10, so 13 days, when I, as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and club presidents, received a new draft of the law with the adopted opinions of the OHR, and 16/10, we received from the OHR and the amendment, only amendments to what would be necessary to intervene with the opinion of the amendments tabled on the Constitutional and Legal Commission by the representatives. I then, as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, using the Rules of Procedure of this House, asked a session of the College, extended to the club presidents, to introduce them to the new circumstances in relation to the new and submitted drafts, which was a little unusually the amendments we received from the OHR, not the Council of Ministers. And I got an explanation then, that the Council of Ministers naturally took part in all this. Although the present member from, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, said he saw it for the first time, but we removed these dilemmas, learning that in consultations with the OHR, which together with all of us wanted to come to the best solutions in the laws, the Justice Ministry Secretary, not the deputy minister, and not the minister, so these are the ones who decide on the proposals that are being made to us in the parliamentary procedure. At the College, therefore, the College, the presidents of the commission, together on my request with me, had a session of 18. I ordered that the session be held on 19th, when I saw that the session was scheduled for the House and that no agenda was scheduled in the session, and in the agenda there was no debate on this set of laws, I asked that the session be held after the meeting of the House. Here, certain changes, certain conversations, after certain talks today, occurred during the working day of this House only the reverse order of holding the competent commission and the session of the House. We held a session, discussed the amendments, heard all the arguments on it, and here we are now on the occasion, since the College accepted to supplement the agenda, the House accepted it, discussed what was at the Constitutional and Legal Committee's session on these amendments and all these talks that we had with the authorised promoter at least, and with OHR the most. So, by considering all the amendments that have been made today, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has considered the 5 amendments tabled by envoy Hasan Ćengić, of which 3 amendments have been rejected, 2 have been withdrawn by the proposings. Mr Genjac has tabled 12 amendments that have been accepted, which have become an integral part of the text of the bill, the Croatian Five Representatives Club has tabled amendments that he later withdrew because some are in full and some are partly covered by Mr Čengić's amendments. Therefore, after long work, the Commission adopted 12 amendments in the form you received in the report just before the start of this session. And something else I said, so what I said about the report, that I wouldn't answer for a word afterwards, so I underlined it several times as the chairman of the commission, from the 30th, so at the two sessions of the 30th and today, that no one at any time from the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission nor anyone else who attended the session of the Constitutional-Break Commission had questioned and disputed that such a set of amendments and additions to the laws that were in question. You know that at the first session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, we adopted two laws without amendments, but as advocates responsible for this House, since this set of laws went according to a deviated procedure in our House, we were obliged to pay attention, carefully and responsibly approach the debate on each of these amendments and the addition of the law. With that kind of attention, we've approached this debate, about all the amendments. We have approached very seriously in considering all the suggestions that have come well before the final decision, but it must have been the most debate, so in the commission produced a new institute that appears, and introduced and justified by the Law on the Court of Justice in the Court of BiH, it is the registration of its powers. And those powers became the subject of serious debates in the presidency when the BiH presidency was to sign an agreement with the High Representative as a representative of the International Community. So the professional public heard a lot of different views about what this newspaper means and what it means is that many people knew to say and I share that opinion that by the original version, it is not like that now that this law has been corrected, it was practically an attempt to install a court in court. Therefore, as originally provided for, the President of the Court of Justice, the General Court, would have no jurisdiction, no authority on that Penalty Department, or two departments within the Penal Code. A major repair was made here because we have now received a special criminal division within the Cane Department of War Crimes, which was also the order of the Governing Board of the Council for Implementation to the High Representative, who is his employer, in this sense so that criminal cases could be taken over from The Hague tribunal to the local judiciary, to justify the War Crimes Department. We didn't ask for anything else, but in the spirit of the logic of the profession, we simply came across the understandings of the motionor and the OHR to separate themselves within the Criminal Department, the War Crimes Department, the Department of Economic Crime and Corruption, and to be the third section, and that's the Department within the Criminal Department for the rest of the Court's duties. As a result, there was a need for the appeal departments to be justified in the same way, and these are about the provisions proposed by this House to accept them as such. And, of course, how we appreciated the expert court of people working in the Court. We received this at the first session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the positions of the General Court of BiH, which had elaborated and pointed out in a certain way certain harmfulities of certain provisions if they had not been changed. So these are the reasons, along with the amendments of the distinguished fellow MPs that we had on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, who led us to come up with these solutions that we are proposing. And one more thing, I have to mention, so it's my personal matter, it's not the Commission's point of view, I have to separate it from each other. Today, the whole press of BiH is simply flooded with the strongest, therefore, with the greatest titles of cursive printing, as HDZ, which obstructs the harmful, which has stiffened, which is small and not the only guilty... a statement by the High Representative yesterday was given after talks with Mrs. Karla Del Ponte. One of the six international officials is extremely false, harmful, falsely informing the High Representative. At no stage, I gave you chronology, here no one from any party, not one individual has obstructed, but has fought for the fact that as much as possible we have the incorporated role of the Court and the pedestals of the Court in relation to each of the departments wherever possible, and that the goal we want is achieved when this case takes place, which is the subject of the debate in the second law of the Hague tribunal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3573	I thank the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, Filipović, and I give my word to my colleague, Čengić. Here's your colleague, Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3574	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, Council of Ministers Presidents, representatives of the International Community, present media representatives, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you and before I begin to talk about the content of this subject today, I would like to express my deep dissatisfaction with the way and method of working in this House. I express this dissatisfaction directly to the chairman and to my Koleguj, for several reasons. It's the first one, because I got a phone call neatly for the House session today with the agenda and nothing else. I came to the House session, and then I found out that for some reason she was going to be late, and then I found out that there was going to be a first session of the commission and that session of the House. As I was an amendment promoter and had already taken part in the work of the committee in charge, therefore, Constitutional and ustavno-pravni, with full understanding of the chairman's commission and all the chanas of the committee that I thank for my work and cooperation, I didn't even have the amendments that I suggested myself, let alone the other materials that I needed for the session. After being brought or brought into the commission's session, then again, the additional planting of the chairman, I got 20 minutes, I repeat 20 minutes to review the amendments which were fundamentally related to my new amendments, so the new amendments that had been tabled and the amendments that I had tabled. And then that session started. After the session ended, I had a need to prepare my amendments to which I was entitled, and here I was late for the beginning of this session. I must express my special dissatisfaction with the fact that here it has become a permanent practice to decide on the most important issues quickly with pressure and at all without being able to conduct a normal parliamentary debate, so that for reasons that I am unknown, we are turning ourselves into a voting machine in this House, rather than being the upper home of this Parliamentary Assembly. This is not good, and it shows neither real relations within this home nor the real state of activity and work, which I highly appreciate in this house, I greatly appreciate in this home, nor does it show real relations of things on the ground. I want to make it very clear here that we have been faced here, first in this house, and then again in the home with the fact that the second home has approached these issues in a completely different way, that the second home has missed under quotes all the laws without any amendments and that then we have been able to react to the laws, try to preserve the integrity of the BiH judicial system, that we have been under special pressure and by a particular kind of even audible. I am here very clearly and responsibly arguing that no one in the commission, and especially the chairman of the commission, has obstructed in any way 7 of the work of this committee, nor is working on these laws vice versa, he is one of the most responsible people that these laws today in the commission and hopefully in the home will have as many human faces as these laws, as these laws will, so much as have the consistency of the judicial system and that they will avoid the parallelisms that have been inaugurated by the proposals of the laws that have been adopted in the House of Representatives. And now we're getting into a situation where thesis is replaced. That those who responded to obtain quality laws or solutions consistent with the judicial system and those who responded to protect the position of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly were on the edge of someone and something. I also thank the OHR people who have been working with us this whole time, but I am sorry that we came into the situation that at their request, we first hold a quick session, last session of the commission, and then, on their request, we delay work on it until they have prepared their comments and new proposals on the laws that have been discussed and were... and then we have a situation to react again under pressure. As a citizen of this country, as a Bošnjak and a man representing Bošnjak, I particularly express my dissatisfaction with the fact that the issue of war crimes is being treated from the point of view whether the law was passed at 10 a.m. or at 4 p.m., whether it was delivered on 22nd or 23rd. It's a humiliation to the victims. It's a humiliation to all the decent citizens of this country and it's a relationship that no one in this country deserves to think honestly about themselves and their own country. It's only now that I'm able to discuss the very essence of the law. I have to say, I'm sorry, I didn't just attend so-called. to discuss the principles and principles of this law. I'm saying so-called. purposely, for a reason and allow me to say my position now, because in the meantime I had to work on the amendments that I had prepared because I just haven't had time since the meeting of the commission. It is amazing and inadmissible that the commission that worked for two days, more than ten hours, which had more than 30 amendments in front of it, which had to analyse these amendments, to discuss, to accept, and then to make a record, that we who have the right to put our comments on these amendments, namely that new version of the law, had 15-20 minutes for this job, on such important issues. That's really amazing, that's what we have to think about. That's what the political question of this home is. And now, we belong to those who believe that, without any doubt, the processing of those suspected of war crimes is one of the most important tasks, one of the most important tasks for ending the process of reconciliation and the construction of the BiH state. I've never had a dilemma about it, and I don't have one today. I think anyone who's a suspect must be prosecuted. In that sense, I have personal reasons. I believe that what has been done in The Hague tribunal so far is an important job that has not been completed and is to be completed. But I also think that this is not the time and I want to make it quite clear, that this is not the time in which these cases were to be transferred from the Court of Justice to The Hague to BiH and transferred to the burden and obligation of the BH judiciary. Why not? First, because we're still in the reorganisation phase, so-called. The reorganization of justice, so often things that confuse great experts let alone... Secondly, because our judiciary is not qualified and is still suffering delays and some decisions that may be problematic and suffer a kind of criticism from the public due to ineffectiveness and ineffectiveness in work. Now a new task should be added to such a one, which is extremely complex and extremely complicated and that is absolutely new for anyone in the BiH area, and especially for people in the judiciary. 8 Next, we are still in a process where we haven't forgotten everything that's happened since '92. By '95. There is no dilemma that there will be attempts to politicize some of these processes. The last thing I'd like to see about the processing of war crimes is the politicization of any kind. What we absolutely must avoid is the impact of politics on any domestic, international, any policy, on any individual case and any behaviour before the Court. Lastly, there is a real danger that some of these cases may have even consequences or may have an impact on certain political relations in BiH. At a time when we are seriously working on building the institutions of the BiH state, at a time when we are seriously and responsibly working towards the European Commission, the European Community and other international institutions, in connection with the integration of BiH, and at a time when we need all the energy to concentrate on maximum co-operation and to seek positive and constructive solutions, rather than returning to discussions on the past and the divisions that can happen with this. For this reason, I continue to believe that this was not and is not the time to transfer these cases to BiH. However, how this happened and how the decision was made elsewhere, and how we today have these laws, then I want to say the following. With regard to the law we are discussing today, the Law on the Court of BiH, we have a situation to discuss currently the oversystration that has experienced several important changes. Hence, the first version that appeared in the home to this present one. It's a little sad, but it should be said, that the Council of Minsitare's proposal was actually a viewer or observer from the stands of this whole process, while the real debate was led by the board of this home and the OHR experts. I say strangely, because I believe there are experts in the Council of Ministers who need to know and can know more than we know in the Parliamentary Assembly. But that's a fact. When it comes to this law, I personally invested five amendments. And I have to say, my amendments are if I add up the football dictionary, passed with a tie of 2.5:2.5. Two have been accepted, half accepted yet this other has not been accepted, etc. I can be pleased with the commission's work, understanding, and can be very pleased with the fact that OHR has listened with care and attention to the arguments that we have made, all of which we have participated in this process of the amendments and that, in essence, what has been accepted, it has therefore been accepted by OHR, I am glad that it has been accepted. I believe that these amendments, which were tabled by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People and afterwards by Mr Halid Genjac, have been put into parliamentary procedure in the House of Peoples, I believe that we have significantly improved solutions regarding the activities of the Court and acted on the line of conclusions of the General Court of BiH, on the line of international legal standards and on the line of legal standards in general, and finally on the line of the legal system in BiH, to try to maintain consistency and avoid the parallelisms proposed. For this reason, I considered certain amendments, withdrew because I felt they were resolved to other amendments accepted by the Commission but I kept two amendments. And let me just for a little while, so I don't hear from you again, just for a little while, to explain why I kept two amendments and I'm investing them again. The first amendment is related to Article 2 and is proposed to be deleted. It is a member who, therefore, reads in the text of the Bills, the Office of the Registrars of the Department and the Criminal and Department of Appeal under the text of the Office of the Registrars of the Department and may prescribe additional rules for lawyers acting before odjek i and odsjek ii of the krivični Department. Why do I think this needs to be deleted? Because the laws on the BiH and RS 9 lawyers have resolved the legal situation of taxes, their rights and their obligations. This is a direct interference of the Court in the work of a lawyer as a defense attorney. At the same time, instead of legislative, the judicial authority prescribes rules for lawyers acting in front of odjek i and ii to the krivično and Appeal Department. In other words, we have a very clear solution to the legal position of attorneys at this time. In the legal system of every democratic state, and in the legal system of this country following these judicial reforms, the position of a lawyer is of crucial importance for the suspect, accused and accused, because it is, in fact, with these new reorganised rules, a plea of innocence in this case, on the defendant, and not on how it has been so far and how it is in the continental right that the prosecutor should prove and carry out evidence of guilt. Now, an orchestrated or accused must carry out evidence of his own not guiltyness. In order to do that, his attorney is essential. In the situation in which we have to date, and right now, we have the law, i.e. two laws, two entities that regulate the question of lawyers, the way they function, their position, their rights, their standards, their criteria, etc. This decision, which remains here, gives it the right to the Court of Justice to further decide whether a lawyer will accept it or not. So after the defendant chooses his lawyer, the court still has the right to deny him that lawyer. If there is a suspicion of anyone in this country, that some lawyers do not deserve to be lawyers because of their expertise or their moral profile, then they cannot be excluded from only one process, but must be excluded from the judiciary. On the other hand, if we accept this standard that currently goes into the draft law here in the second reading, then that means that we will bring lawyers into an unequal position not before the courts of BiH, but before one court, so before even the largest court, so the BiH Court. They will have the opportunity to be lawyers in one department, or in front of one department without being lawyers in front of another department. Such standards are inadmissible. Such standards bring us back to the time that we had here, in which politics decided on the judiciary, decided on the prosecution of the court and the verdicts. I have no reason to believe that a particular judge or a certain judicial council is more well-intentioned towards the citizens of BiH than the laws of this state. I'm sorry. No one gets mad. So, the reason why I suggested that this member be deleted, because there are laws that accurately define the rights and positions of lawyers and that lawyers must be in the same position before BiH courts, as well as BiH citizens should be in the same position. And finally the last, which is even more dangerous, is the fact that we have a situation where if this law is adopted in this solution, we will have a situation of actually introducing parallelism in the jurisdiction between the BiH legislator and the BiH Court or even more so, a particular section of the BiH Court. As regards the second amendment, it is the second and I no longer have amendments, concerns Article 17(3) which is to be amended and should be read – the International Registry proposes to the Court of Justice Rules of Procedure for Section I and II of the Criminal and Appeal Department which becomes an integral part of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Court, etc. So there is certainly an international need for assistance from the International Community in drawing up a section of the Rules of Procedure that regulates issues relating to the processing of war crimes at the Court or before the Court of Justice of BiH, which will represent the Register. So, the Registrar here according to what we heard off the record, but it doesn't say in the law, it's a stranger. It should therefore have the possibility to propose a proposal for a Rules of Procedure or part of a Rules of Procedure governing the conduct of odsjek i and II. We certainly need such help because we have no experience in the processing of war crimes. However, these solutions should be included in the Rules of Procedure, which makes the Rules of Procedure itself. So if we have a procedure to adopt the Rules of Procedure, and its amendments and additions should be made by such a procedure, that is the general rule. This would avoid the establishment of parallelisms in the BiH Court's responsibilities and maintain the integrity of the BiH judicial system. So, my proposal, in a certain way, specifies only one detail, and this is the Register or the International Community in the form of a register, will propose its suggestions on how to edit the Rules of Procedure for Section I and II. The registrar should propose this to the Court of Justice and the General Assembly should decide on this as it decides on the overall Rules of Procedure. This is the only difference between a solution that has usually improved this proposal itself, and this is a solution proposed by a fellow Genjac, who suggests that a registrator in consultations with the President of the Court makes, I believe that if he remains such a solution in this law, then it would still be one precedent and one parallelism that could very badly, have poor repercussions and to the work of this court but could be used afterwards as a bad precedent for the peace of other parallelisms. I hope that colleagues will understand the reasons and arguments for this and that they will support this, according to these two amendments, so that this law will have one consistency and consistency of everything I've talked about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3575	I thank my colleague, Čengić, here's just one sentence about this first part of his discussion, so I don't want to comment on it too much. Of course, these things cause frustration in both our delegates and MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, that they can lead to a certain atrophy of domestic democratic potential, but firstly, we really had to put these laws and the urgency of their adoption here, and I would say one hope and expect that soon the time will come when here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly we will regularly pass laws in the regular procedure. Before I give a word to someone else, since we've somehow already entered the second part of this agenda, I haven't given yet, I'm going to open a vote now to discuss the second reading of this law, and then we're going to continue the discussion. I've already got some announcements. So we passed the law in our first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. And I'm opening a vote. So we have one abstention, 13 for, no one against, it's been passed to consider this law in the second reading. In his discussion, counterpart Čengić already explained his amendments. So now we're having a debate on these amendments, so here you go. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Jukić. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3576	Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, guests and journalists, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I warmly welcome you. I will speak in general in this part of the session, not about the amendments and I will be very brief. In fact, the chronology was already talked about by Mr Filipović and I would not repeat it, but I would say some of my thoughts here, so if you want critics and those who are not in any way popularly criticized. We often discuss the position and role of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Lately, it has gained a new role, perhaps more appropriate than it had two or three years ago, or the way it worked, at least in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or its relationship with Parliament and otherwise the authorities. In fact, OHR is increasingly a partner and we often say that it should be a partner of the government, a partner in the sense that it helps the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina to resolve some delicate and difficult issues more easily and quality. One of those difficult questions is certainly a question of war crimes. In order to address the issue in a quality way or in a way that is imagined by those who have set up the International Court of War Crimes in The Hague, it was then considered that the solution to take matters over and transfer them to domestic justice, and that legal frameworks were created for this and for the purpose of that resolution, the laws in question today are also subject to the laws in question. The new role of OHR, I at least see it is that it participates in creating a solution and even correcting its own proposed solutions, which is a new quality. And I welcome that. However, what I resent is the fact that sometimes without the knowledge of those who need to do a certain job, which is Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly sets deadlines for which at least I, as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Peoples, or even the leadership of the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Peoples, have not been informed. And then I hear from the papers, or I hear from the other media that the deadline is set, I don't even know a date, here's a specific date today, etc., and in fact no one's ever heard of it before, except for one general finding that whether it should be rushed to pass these laws, i.e. amendments and additions, etc. to create assumptions for taking over cases, initiating proceedings at domestic courts, etc. What's the weather again, be careful quite resilient, not limited. And what is worst is my most significant observation is the fact that I am the High Representative at a very important meeting with Chief Prosecutor Mrs. Karla Del Ponte found that the main braker or the one who obstructs this HDZ process is Bosnia and Herzegovina. If I were somewhere by myself, if I hadn't been directly involved in this process in one active way as a representative, and I came from the ranks of the Croatian people and from the HDZ, I'd think maybe Mr. Pedi Eždaun was right. However, I responsibly claim that this is not true. Therefore, since the adoption of Security Council Resolution 1503 which assumes and speaks about the need to create the preconditions, and the taking over of cases in the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Court of Justice, the case from The Hague, until the decision of the Steering Committee of the Peace Implementation Council held in 1.4.2004, where the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina is tasked with engaging together with the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the legal process in order to establish the Office for War Crimes in domestic courts. Since then, the HDZ and the Croatian People's Club in the House of Nations have been thinking and was actually ready and ready and determined to accept it and, of course, through relevant legal repairs etc. So it participates actively in 12 adoptions of such laws and the creation of preconditions for the establishment of this war crimes department at the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If our request, after being laid down in this House in a legitimate and prescribed way, that the procedure of the one without amendments is accepted by a shortened procedure, which allows for the participation of MPs in the creation of amendments and the improvement of the possible text of the law to be considered an obstruction, then I do not know what is a constructive approach if we know it at all. And here's to say, this is why I really reject all charges against HDZ in terms of destruction and obstruction, the establishment of a war crimes department at the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the contrary to the HDZ and the Croatian Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is and advocates the establishment of a war crimes department at the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think we have made our own concrete contribution....amendments most of which are accepted. We gave up one part of the amendment by estimating that the vast majority and most important parts were accepted. And for the end of one thing, I would also like to say about the establishment of the Register Office at the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to me, the Court of Justice in The Hague, the International Tribunal in The Hague is very expensive. It has been financed again, to me available information from the international community and these have been very significant funds at the annual level. Since certain standards applicable to this tribunal are introduced through the registrar, the court, if counted on this financial part, I am not sure that Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it is, with this potential and economic potential, will be able to respond in a good way to this task. Here's just one piece of information, don't give me much, it's just how much, I came up with a lot of what I was doing when I found out this, it's a year's rate of over 100 million dollars. I think it's for Bosnia and Herzegovina's very big money. I'm not saying it's gonna take us so long in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but if we're introducing some standards, and we are from this court, I don't know, it's gonna cost us that much. I expect here, of course, and we have promises from the international community that they will help finance the work of this registrar, so this department in the Court of Justice, at the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, I am convinced, I will repeat this responsibly here and declare, it is my belief that this will cost us a lot, and I would ask really those who promise to help us to make this assistance go away, because if it remains I am afraid that we can fall into some unwanted situation that we will not be able to respect all of this in a financial sense, first of all, this brings with them these changes and complements and this new resulting situation that will happen after we adopt these laws. Here, it's one of my little contributions, so it's also an invitation to all those who help us really help us and financially help us to get this done in an imaginary way. Otherwise, I'm afraid we'll get into some of the problems that Mr. Čengić was talking about, part of Mr. Filipović. I think we're all gonna be responsible, but not just for us, but for some other guy who's here sometimes, they're taking something lightly. I think it will be responsible in terms of support for bringing what is imagined to an end in an imaginary way. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3577	I thank my colleague Jukić. I don't see anyone else checking in. Does anyone want to speak on this agenda? So we have another reading of this law. No Niko checked in. So now we will vote on the amendments proposed by Mr Čengić. First about his first anamdment. So I'm opening a vote. Mr. Čengić's first amendment didn't go through.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3578	Just to register it, please. I may have mistakenly pressed against it, because I guess I'll vote for my amendment myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3579	Here, if you'd like me to repeat the vote, or let's put this vote on Mr. Čengić, let's say 3:3, since he made it public. So the amendment didn't go through. I will now open the vote of Amendment number II Mr. Čengić. You can vote. We have 3 for, 5 abstentions, 5 against. The amendment didn't go through. Now we're going to vote by law. I'm opening a vote. In the second reading, it means law. 12 for, 2 abstentions. I find that the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in a second reading. Since the Law in our home and the House of Representatives is adopted in various texts, we are obliged to appoint members for a joint committee to bring the text of the Law into line, so I ask the club heads to propose members of the Commission for the Consensation of the Law. Mr. Genjac, you'd like to postpone. Srbin, do you have a suggestion? Mr. Šiljegov, a proposal from the Serbian Club, Mr. Hilmo, Mr. Genjac, Mr. Ilija Filipović and Mr. Filipović. Who is it for the members of the Coordination Commission to be Mr Šiljegović, Genjac and Filipović? I'm opening a vote. 12 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. So this is a commission that will match the House of Representatives commission. Moving to the 7th point of the agenda 14 Ad.7. The proposal for a law on the admission of cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina We have this law in our first reading. The first reading of the law is under Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed this law under Rule 105 of their Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? The committee responsible, therefore, President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission Mr. Ilija Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3580	Thank you very much for your word. So the Constitutional and Legal Commission also considered the bill and had several amendments. Mr. Halid Genjac has invested two amendments, which have also been accepted, and the Croatian Club and the Club of Serbs have withdrawn their amendments, as they are covered by Mr. Genjac's amendments and we suggest that the House accept such a bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3581	I thank Mr Filipović, President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. Who is it to adopt this law in the first reading? I'm opening a vote. Single law adopted in the first reading. I suggest we wrap up the discussion in another reading. Who's to have a discussion in the second reading? I'm calling the vote. 13 for, someone didn't vote or register it. Mr. Jukić. Okay, most of the time, a proposal has been adopted to consider this law in a second reading. This is where we discuss the amendments, which are not available. So, it's not going to be run around and voted on by the law. We have a report from the committee in charge. Is anyone answering for a word? No Niko checked in, so there were conditions to vote on the law. I'm opening a vote. The International Court has unanimously adopted the Law on Case Injurement. Given the fact that the law in homes is adopted in a different text, we should appoint members for a joint committee for text alignment. Any proposals for members of the Commission? Do the club presidents agree to leave the same proposal? All right, all right. 15 I am opening a vote on the proposal, meaning Šiljegović, Genjac and Filipović. Open vote. One against. I find that this proposal has been adopted for the Conciliation Commission. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, we have a second reading of Him in our second reading today. The amendments are under discussion. The vote is about the law or else in the second reading. There are no amendments. This report was adopted by the representative in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. You have a report from the commission. Who's answering for a word? Mr Filipović, president, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3582	I'll say it very briefly. So these amendments adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission are logical consequences of the amendments adopted to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. So, Mr. Genjac was the applicant for the amendment. Six have been adopted and we propose to accept it in the House as established by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3583	I thank the President of the Commission. No one ever signed up to talk again. So, since no one signed up, we're going to vote on the law in the second reading. That's to remind you, the BiH Prosecution Act. I'm opening a second reading vote. Open vote. The law was unanimously adopted in the second reading of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Given the fact that the Law in our House and the House of Representatives is adopted in various texts, we should also appoint members of the Joint Commission. Here, I hear members of the College whispering the same. Do you agree that the same proposal will be Genjac, Šiljegović and Filipović. I'm opening a vote. Vote, please. We had one against, some minises gathering here. Congratulations to the legislators on the adopted laws. Ad.9. The proposal for a law on supervision and control of the crossing of the state border, we have it in our first reading in accordance with Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed this law at a 45th session with 23 amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Boško Šiljegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3584	Thank you, Chairman. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security and Oversight over the work of BiH's defence and security structures has, at its 12th session, since 24.9., considered the bill's proposal and adopted it with 23 amendments. Since there have been no amendments to the repeat, I suggest we adopt this high house and come up with the same text of the Law as in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3585	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. The debate is open. Here, I'll close it now that no one's checked in. Who is it to adopt a law on the supervision and control of the crossing of the state border in the first reading? Open vote. So unanimous 13. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. Who's to do the discussion in the second reading? Open vote. Unanimity 13. There were no new amendments. It has a joint commission report, adopted 23 amendments, as counterpart Šiljegović said. Is anyone picking up? Closed rapprochement. We're voting on the law. Who is for the adoption of the law on the control and control of the crossing of the state border? I'm opening a vote. A unanimous law was adopted in the same text as in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Add.10 Proposal for a bill on payments to a single account and distribution of income, first reading, which is in accordance with Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and pornography on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law at the 45th session with two amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Radović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3586	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Financial and Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, at its 19th session, discussed the proposal for this law, and based on the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on its compliance with the BiH Constitution. The Commission unanimously supported the principles of the law and proposed that the House adopt it in the parliamentary procedure, as it is a very important system law, which regulates the way in which the reformed system is collected, the collection of indirect taxes, the collection and distribution of taxes to BiH budgets. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3587	I thank my colleague, Radović. No more reports. I'm closing the debate in my first reading. Who's to pass this law in first class? Open vote. The law was adopted unanimously in the first reading. I suggest, therefore, that we conduct the discussion in another reading. I'm opening a vote. Who is it to have a discussion in another reading? You can vote. It was unanimously adopted to conduct the discussion in another reading. We have, therefore, a report from the committee responsible. There was no amendment. It's about the law. Before we vote, is anyone answering for a word, it's my duty to ask you? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law. Open vote. The law was passed unanimously. Given the fact that the law in homes has been introduced into different texts, we need to appoint members for a joint committee for text alignment. The club chiefs are insulating with suggestions. Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3588	In front of the Serbian delegates' club, I propose Mr. Nad Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3589	I appreciate the suggestion. Please Mr. Spajić, therefore, it is the law on payments to a single account and the allocation of funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3590	In front of the Croatian people, Mr. Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3591	And in front of the Bosniak people.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3592	Mr Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3593	Thank you. Somehow, she gave in to discipline. So we're voting now on the Commission's proposal. Open vote, Radović, Jukić and Pamuk. The composition of this committee was unanimously adopted. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. Proposal for a law on the financing of BiH institutions 18 We have in our first reading, which is in accordance with Article 90. We are having a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law at the 45th session with two amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Radović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3594	I thank Mr President, also, the Commission for Financial and Administrative Psols of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, for considering the draft of this law, is a very important law and obligation of this Parliament to implement the legislative procedure and regulate this area, based on the opinion and analysis of the auditors. Also, this is a law from that set, which has undertaken BiH to reform its economic space, i.e. the use of the budget. Based on the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, therefore, it is in line with the Constitution, the Commission proposes that the House of Peoples adopt this law in the legal procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3595	I thank my colleague, Radović. I don't see any reports. Who is it to adopt this law, therefore, the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, in the first reading? Open vote. The law passed in the first reading unanimously. I suggest we wrap up the discussion in another reading. No Niko checked in. So, I'm opening a vote. A unilaterally accepted proposal to conduct the discussion in another reading. We have a report from the committee in charge. The second reading discusses amendments, votes on the law. The new amendment was submitted by the Serbian People's Delegates Club. It is an amendment and a club of delegates of the Serbian people. Would you like to see Mr. Šiljegović?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3596	Very meek, President. I had the goal of strengthening Parliament's role with my amendment. I've been consulting with my colleagues from other clubs. I have called for new aspects of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, Article 89.3. I got my consent, and I'm sure my colleague will support a quality amendment, like I did today, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3597	We're voting on the amendment. Open vote. The amendment was unanimously adopted by fellow Members of Šiljegović. So we're voting on the law. Who's for the adoption of this law? Open vote. 19 Unanimous 15 for. Given that the law in homes has been adopted in various texts, we should appoint members for a joint committee for text alignment. I'd like the club chiefs to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3598	Mr. Goran Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3599	A proposal from the Bosniak club. Jukić. Is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3600	Mr Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3601	Mr Pamuk. I am opening a vote on this Commission proposal. 14 for, 1 abstention. Congratulations. Ad.12. The proposed law on the Christian policy of BiH, we have it in the second reading We have a report, we have it from the competent commission, which adopted two amendments, which have become an integral part of the text of this law. The House of Representatives passed the law at the 45th session with one technical correction. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There were no new amendments. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3602	Since this is a second reading, I will only remind you, since there have been no other amendments, I will ask you to respect the fact that the relevant committee of the House of Representatives had a significant number of technical repairs, which were adopted on our commission, except for the repair of Article 210 and, in addition, our commission, as the committee responsible, had military technical repairs, so I will ask you to continue, who is in charge of including technical repairs, to pay attention to this and, hopefully, we will vote this extremely important law from package 40 to the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3603	I thank Mr. Čengić. So, no more reported. Now we're going to vote on the law. I'm opening a vote. The law was passed unanimously. Since the law in the two homes of the BiH Parliament has been adopted in different texts, we need to re-nominate members of the text alignment committee. I'd like some suggestions from the club chiefs. Different text. They have two amendments. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3604	Mr. Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3605	Sir, I'll Spajić. So, Mr. Zno. From the Bosniak Corps.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3606	Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3607	Thank you for the suggestion. He's calling a vote on this commission's proposal. Who's in? Unanimity. Congratulations. Ad.13. Proposal for a law on the State Border Service, second reading We have a report from the Joint Commission. The Commission adopted six amendments, which became an integral part of the text of this law. The House of Representatives passed the law at its 45th session, also with a set of amendments. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The new amendments were submitted by Mr Halid Genjac and the Serbian People's Delegates Club. You've received the text of these amendments. Would you like to, Mr. Genjac? There's no need. You have an amendment to Mr. Genjac. Here, I'll read it since it's short. Until the Sarajevo DGS headquarters is secured, it may have a temporary seat at another location. Mr. Šiljegović signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3608	It is short-lived only as the chairman of the Joint Parliamentary Defence and Security Commission. At the 11th session of 31.8th, the Joint Commission passed a law with six amendments. Meanwhile, two amendments by Mr Genjac and the Club of Serbian Delegates were renewed. I don't know, we might be ready to come up with a single text of the law, withdraw our amendment to get the same text of the law, and if Mr. Genjac doesn't withdraw, then I promise he won't pass the amendment, that we don't form a commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3609	I mean, it's not that small. The point is that it is a lady who has been adopted on the Commission and who predicts that this solution allows DGS to have a temporary seat in Sarajevo, RS. I have tabled an amendment contesting this adopted amendment and to determine until the Sarajevo headquarters is secured, as scheduled, the DGS may have a temporary seat at another location. Not to explain now, the explanation is also written in the amendment. So, aware of the possibility that we may not pass the amendment, I do, however, want to make a statement about the amendment, it is a very important amendment. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3610	I thank my fellow Genjac. I don't see any more reports. I'm opening a vote on Mr. Genjac's amendment. You can vote. 7 for, 3 abstentions, 5 against. He's going to the college meeting. One minute. We're going straight to the second round of voting. [[PAUZA]] We didn't achieve consent. The issue concerns the delegates of the Federation of BiH. Who's against this amendment? You can vote. The way it's supposed to vote, it's just against it. So 1 delegate is against. Who's against the RS? I'm opening a gala for delegates from the RS who's against the amendment? All five delegates against. So the amendment didn't go through. It's not adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3611	We're doing this wrong. The question is wrong. I don't think we were quite right, and if we knew what we were thinking, but that would be a clear second time, to be said to make it clear to everyone. So, now whoever's against the amendment is voting, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-21-0.u3612	We are moving on to the amendment of the Serbian People's Delegates Club. You pulled him out. I thank my colleague, Šiljegović, who withdrew the amendment. So we're voting on the law. Who's up for the adoption of the law? I'm opening a vote. It's a final vote. 15 for, unanimously. I thank you, and we've exhausted the agenda with this. I find that the law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives. So, no commission. I thank you for your efficient work today. I would especially like to thank the members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, who have worked very hard these two days and welcome you to our next session until the next session. Cheers. The sjedica was finished at 16:45.
