ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-1.u3502	Dearly honored delegates, dear guests, representatives of public information, I welcome you and open the 29th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 13 delegates present at today's session, of which 5 delegates from the Bosniak people, 3 delegates from the Croatian people and 5 delegates from the Serb people. gospoda Filipović and Zrno have justifiably been left behind from this session. For this 29th session, I propose the following DN E V N I R E D: 1. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure, 2. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure, 3. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Amendment Bill and the Supplements to the Criminal Code of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure, 4. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the Suspension of Cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the use of evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure, 5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure. 2 I am opening a debate on the draft agenda. Who's answering for a word? No Niko answered. I'm closing the debate. I find that this agenda has been adopted. I'm going to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure At the 28th session of the House of Peoples in the vote on whether this law will be discussed in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure were not entity majority. The college met on the basis of Article 60(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The College has failed to reach agreement and the House must now be declared in accordance with Article 60(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. It's just a vote against the law being considered by Article 100(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Because of the problem with the technique, we'll vote manually. So who's against it? By entities. This time the Federation, there's more of you. Who's against the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? So no one is against the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. One pardon, Mr. Čengić. Who's against Republika Srpska? – 5 I therefore conclude that this law will, in addition to having more than 2/3 v, i.e. that it does not have an entity majority, be considered in the ordinary procedure. I'm going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.2. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure, we'll all be together. That's how I understood it. That's how I came to the conclusion. At the end of it all. No, no, he's automatically going to regular. I'm finding the conclusion that we're even going to transfer him to this procedure. Yeah. Don't. We'll be right there. I'll read fast. Second item of the agenda Ad.2. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules 3 Also at the 28th session of the House of Peoples in voting whether the law would be considered by the member was not an entity majority. The college met on the basis of Article 60(2). The Rules of Procedure of the People's House have not reached agreement. The home shall be declared in accordance with Article 60(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House. It is against the law to be considered under Article 100(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're voting manually again. From the Republika Srpska delegates who's against? Five delegates from Republika Srpska. From the Federation of BiH who's against? - One delegate's against it. So the law will be considered in the ordinary procedure. Point three Ad.3. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Amendment Bill and the Supplements to the Criminal Code of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure At the 28th session of the vote, whether this law will be discussed under article 100 did not appear to be an entity majority. The college met on the basis of Article 60(2). The Rules of Procedure didn't even achieve consent. The House must now be declared in accordance with Article 60(3). Rules of Procedure. It goes against the law to be considered under Article 100(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? - One against. Republika Srpska? - Five against. So the law will be considered in the ordinary procedure. The fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the Suspension of Cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the use of evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure At the 28th session of the House of Peoples in the vote on whether this law will be discussed in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure were not entity majority. 4 The College also met on the basis of Article 60(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of People have not reached agreement and the House must now be declared in accordance with Article 60(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. It's just a vote against the law being considered by Article 100(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's against it? First, delegates from Republika Srpska vote. Five against. Delegates from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina are now voting. Who's against it? - Niko. So, the law will be considered in the ordinary procedure. Fifth point Ad. 5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure At the 28th session of the House of Peoples in the vote on whether this law will be discussed in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure were not entity majority. The college met and failed to achieve consent. He needs to make a statement at home. It is said that the Law is under consideration under Article 100(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please delegates from the Federation of BiH who is against? - Niko. Delegates from Republika Srpska who's against it? – 5 The law will be considered in regular procedure. I'll take your word for it, colleague Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-1.u3503	Dear colleagues, we are of course to this, as the Rules of Procedure stipulates that all these laws proposed by all five points of the agenda go into regular procedure. I think we can make another attempt like the House to speed up this procedure anyway, without damaging the legislative procedure of passing these important laws. Therefore, in accordance with Article 131. I propose the following conclusion to the Rules of Procedure. The Home of the People calls on the Council of Ministers, as the legislator of the law under points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of today's agenda, not to read all the names, to renew those drafts of the law, with a reasoned request that the parliamentary procedure be considered in accordance with Article 99(1). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. 5 By adopting such a conclusion to the House of Nations, it would show its willingness to reach these significant laws as soon as possible, and at the same time to call on the House of Ministers to, as the Authorised Proposer and the Rules of Procedure of the Authorised Prosecutor of the Initiative to bring laws to bear, or adopt, a reduced procedure to make such a request to the House of Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-1.u3504	I thank my fellow Genjac. So very clearly, precisely, we've heard the proposal for a conclusion crystallically, and here, since no one has signed up, I suggest we make a statement about that conclusion. Here, the electronics are working fast. So you can vote electronically. I'm opening a vote. I find that with 13 votes, a unanimous conclusion has been adopted and I conclude this session today. Yeah, this is going to go on short notice, so it's an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99, which means the deadlines are cut. I thank you for your efficient work at both of these sessions and I'll see you soon. Cheers. The session ended at 6:15 p.m.
