ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11615	I urge the MPs to sit down, put in cards to determine the quorum and therefore open the 32nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we have our first session today using a new tent, and I'm asking for a little patience and a little understanding if there are any technical errors. So today we try to help each other. Our regular guests and representatives of international and non-governmental organisations who follow the work of the House were invited to attend the session. The chairmans and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the OHR representative, the OSCE representative, the EU representative, the Special Representative of the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission in BiH, the Representatives of the Observer mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the embassies who expressed their interest in monitoring the work of today's meeting, representatives of NGOs, the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. I warmly welcome all who responded to today's session. It is my duty, ladies and gentlemen, to inform you that I am from Professor Dr. Petar Kunić has been informed that he has recently acted as an independent MP in the House of Representatives. I would also like to inform you that in the House of Representatives another Mixed Club of MPs was formed in Dr. Tihomir Gligorić, SPRS, Prof. Dr. Petar Kunić, an independent MP and Mirko Blagojević, an independent MP, chaired by the club according to their agreement, is Dr. Tihomir Gligorić. We now have nine MP clubs in the House. I want a new club to work successfully. We have another previous question, which is the verification of the mandate for two, for two new MPs. Namely, I was informed from the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina that the mandate of MPs was granted by Muberi Ušanović, as the next qualified candidate on the SDA list, instead of Dr. Hasan Muratović, who, as you know, resigned from this post. I have also been informed that the Electoral Commission has resolved Zoran Spasojević's duties as MPs due to the incompatibility of delegates' functions in the House of Peoples and MPs in the 2 House of Representatives. Instead of Zoran Spasojević, the Electoral Commission assigned the mandate of MPs to Mrs Mara Perkanović, as the next qualified candidate on the SDS list. I call on MPs to make a solemn statement and thereby fully assume parliamentary rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11616	You'll repeat after me. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11617	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11618	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11619	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11620	Full implementation of General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11621	Full implementation of General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11622	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11623	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11624	This solemn act of swearing is over. We're going back to work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you've received a draft agenda for the 32nd session. 3 Meanwhile, from the Council of Ministers, we have received three laws on requests to be considered in a shortened procedure, therefore, under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We passed those laws to you on March 21st. On Friday, March 25th, the Election Commission submitted a draft law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, also requiring consideration under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. That's the legal proposal you got before the session started. The extended college had a meeting this morning at 9:00, and we agreed that the agenda would be complemented by the inclusion of these requirements in order for the House to decide on the procedure for their consideration. The agenda is also complemented by the inclusion of the report, the Commission's College on Efforts to reach agreement on the request of MP Azra Hadžiahemtović to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The agenda includes the establishment of a joint Security Intelligence Commission and the selection of members of the Commission. And finally, as the final point, we included the Information of the BiH Election Commission on the problems of conducting preparatory actions in connection with the municipal elections held in October 2004. I ask you to have the understanding of supplementing the agenda with 6.7 points for the reason that we wanted to establish a procedure for all those legal projects in which the Proposer requested an emergency procedure, regardless of whether it is Article 104 or 105, and I must inform you that there is no other proposal in the procedure on which it could be declared today. I also call on the MPs, we have concluded on the previous College of Detention to propose new agenda points because today we would have 22 points of the agenda as well, which I would like to inform you that as the 18th point of the agenda we have placed – a report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd like to inform you that I have information that the Commission has not done the job, so the 18th item of the agenda is due to be removed from the agenda of today's session. So the 18th point is off and the others are moving. We'll have a 21st item on the agenda if Dom pleads. And in the end, I want to inform you that we have a quorum for a valid decision. 37 MPs are present, 24 from the Federation, 13 from Republika Srpska. Ladies and gentlemen, with these opening remarks, I am opening a debate on the agenda. 4 Who Answers the Word? Mr. Mladen Potočnik picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11625	...the agenda Report of the Council of Ministers on the request of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the moratorium, i.e. the freezing of the Free Trade Agreement with Croatia and the Serbia-Montenegro Community until 1.1.2006, adopted at this Parliament on 15.3. this year and with a deadline of execution until 30.3. It's 31 today, and I think this point has to be on today's agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11626	I thank my fellow Potočnik. I'd ask the speakers when they say to get up, not to sit down when they're talking. [[interrupted connection, short, off microphone]] So practice and order is what we do in this building in this House. And so I'd like to ask that the new drafts of the new agendas be articulated in a way that we can do something. If we don't have a report from the Council of Ministers we can only open the debate today why we don't have it, or if there's no one from the Council of Ministers if we can tell if we're going to have it, I'm afraid we'll have the agenda adopted, but empty debates and in that sense I'd ask to refrain from some ambitions for a wide political story unless we have documents on the table, but not disputed that MPs have the right to seek new agenda points. Who's next to the word? [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11627	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I, as chairman of the Transport and Communications Commission, received the conclusion of the College on the two laws we had in the debate. It means the Law establishing a power transmission company and the Act on an independent system operator. What I got as a conclusion is I'm kind of not ready to call the Commission on this. I think he's asking a few questions here. 5 First, should we review any amendments that have been adopted or just some of them? Should we consider all the amendments that we have already considered and whether we should allow more investment in the amendments? So I'd like to go before I call on the Commission to determine what our mission is, after all. And what it says in its conclusion is that we make a new report in accordance with Article 95(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, so I'm not in a position to call the Commission, and I think we should hurry up a little bit so we can finish what we're supposed to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11628	I thank my colleague Jovanović. I don't know this is a debate about the agenda. Do you require a agenda point? But I must tell you that the conclusion is quite clear and the debate is quite clear that the new moments are that therefore the Resoring Ministry, the Council of Ministers, our experts sit down and say what is of the adopted amendments which derogate the law accumulates the implementation of a considerable amount of what we have discussed. I think the conclusion is quite clear, and I think that you, on the basis of a stenogram and a conclusion, can call on the Commission, the Registrar and experts working on it and see, therefore, to hold a debate or to submit a new report to Parliament. What kind of report will there be? Whether the Commission will respect part of the arguments or repeat the report, give some reduced report, that is, the Commission's position. But here, you just define if you want the day-to-day work to be discussed. But I don't think there's any need, because the conclusion is clear. If you want the agenda, I don't mind, just define it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11629	Well, call the Commission and let the Commission know what they're going to do. But I don't think that based on this conclusion, the Commission, on condition that it can't work. You understand. I'll call the Commission and let them, and then we'll make a commitment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11630	I ask you, it's a order of things, so call the Commission, if there's a need to interpret the House to give new instructions to the Commission, he's the only one who's authorized. Here, I think we've solved this problem, but in any case, the Commission needs to start working. Ladies and gentlemen, no one's answering, as far as I can see for the addition of the agenda. This concludes the debate on the agenda, and here we just need to make a statement about Mr. Mladen Potočnik's proposal. He asks to add a new item of the agenda, which, according to what we have, would be the 22nd item of the agenda, is 6 – a report by the Council of Ministers, at the request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, on the moratorium of freezing the Free Trade Agreement with Croatia and the Association of Serbia-Montenegro by 1.1.2006, adopted on 15.3.2004, with a deadline of 30.3. So I'm putting on a statement that this will be the 22nd item of the agenda. We're going to vote, so I'm asking you to put the cards on and we're going to vote through these technical devices. So who's in favour of accepting this proposal from Mr. Potočnik? You're voting. [[Disable microphone]] Please, I ask all MPs to vote. Please check to see if you've inserted the cards. I've got two cards on the monitor that haven't been inserted. Wait a minute, wait a minute, we'll get the report. Take it easy. So we have a report of 37, a total of 24 for, no, no, this is a quorum. Please technique, just take it easy. I said, I pray for patience, given that the technique is remotely controlled, we are unable to intervene in any way. So now, so we have a quorum. On my count of when we start voting, we should vote. So when I vote to vote, we vote again. Who's in favour of accepting Mr. Potočnik's proposal? Ladies and gentlemen, since you have these charts in front of you, until the technique follows, we're going to vote. There's no other way. I'm asking the technique to practice next time. Wait a minute, please technique yes. So let's go, who's in favour of supporting it, let's go the physical way of voting. Who's in favour of supporting Mr. Potočnik's proposal? I'm asking the service to count. A little patience, please. Who's against it? Abstained? Give it to me. So of the 37 present, 26 for, 10 v, 1 abstention. So we're going to the E.T.A. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. From Republika Srpska who's in favour? 13 for the Federation, 10 for Republika Srpska. So I find that the 22nd item of the agenda will be Mr. Moranjkić's proposal – a report by the Council of Ministers at the request of the Parliamentary House of Representatives, that Mr. Potočnik, I apologize, so the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the moratorium of freezing the Free Trade Agreement with Croatia and the Association of Serbia-Montenegro 1.1.2006. 7 Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude that we have adopted the next agenda. 1. Journal of the 31st Session of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina Police Officers on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 7. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 9. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Criminal Procedure Act under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 10. Request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the High and Court Prosecutorial Council under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 11. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider draft law on litigation before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 12. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 13. A request from the Election Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Second Reading), 5 / 15 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), 8 18. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on Infringements of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 19. Establishing a joint security intelligence commission to monitor the work of the Intelligence Security Agency, selecting members of the commission, 20. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the importance of public documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 21. Information from the BiH Election Commission on the problems of conducting preparatory actions in connection with municipal elections held in October 2004 and 22. The Council of Ministers' report, on a request from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, on the moratorium of freezing the Free Trade Agreement with Croatia and the Serbia-Montenegro Community by 1.1.2006. Ladies and gentlemen, so we've adopted the agenda. Moving to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad. 1. The register from the 31st session of the House of Representatives you received. Here you go. Does he have any objections? Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who's in favor of accepting the minutes from the 31st session? Please just take it easy. Who's in? I'm sorry, while technique is a bit of a stalker. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, I find that with one vote against, we have stayed with the vote to adopt the minutes from the 31st session of the House of Representatives. We're going to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers Meanwhile, from last to this session, answers to questions were received: - Momčilo Novaković and Milorad Živković, questions of the 26th session. Nikola Špirić and Muhamed Moranjkić, questions asked at the 28th session. - Sead Palavrić, question asked at 30 sessions of the House. Any comments on the answers? Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11631	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, ladies and gentlemen present here from the press and beyond, I asked the question as Mr. 9 chairperson said at one of the meetings a long time ago and here I finally got an answer which I was partially pleased with, because it was partly and answered to the question. It's tragic that whoever answered my question has asked me, this country and myself more questions than he's asked me 10 times, so I don't know who's going to answer those questions to right now. The reason for my question was clear, and since half of the answer is found by one who answers me that my question does not refer to the property that is subject to succession. That's right. But in a further answer, it is said that this problem is so complex that it sets, or gives the possibility of manipulation. I'm interested, and I wish there was someone here who answered to tell me whose manipulations are these? They are my manipulations as an MP who I have asked a question, whether they are manipulations of this parliament, or manipulations of the Council of Ministers or someone's enté of manipulation. The fact is that here it is found that there is a large part of the property that has not entered and shown a passive subsilence that is exactly what I was aiming at, because there are dozens of objects that are large financial, huge assets that have not been wine-provoked and ultimately it is being manipulated today and the state has no insight into that property. Secondly, there are no problems solved here, it's only said to me, and I don't know how to measure it, the place where the property is located. I didn't ask that first, because I know that, and second, if he's got that question, then you should know.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11632	Mr. Moranjkić, may I help you?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11633	Well, I'm not normally satisfied and explain why I'm not satisfied. If someone's going to answer, tell me tomorrow what I'm not happy about. And here's why I'm not satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11634	Please, don't lose parliamentary questions like this nothing. There's no one you asked a question to. So you can tell the media that you're unhappy, that you're not responsible, but if we repeat it every time and do extensive explanations, it loses its meaning.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11635	I have a completely different vision, Mr. Chairman. If this isn't how you fix me. If I say anything today that's wrong, I think it's going to be written down and someone who's coming back with that question will be asked to answer. Because there's a possibility that people are lost in response. Yeah, I think there's a need, because I know that by now never 10 when I said I'm not satisfied, there's no addition to that answer, never here's a year and a change of days. If that's the case, then give it to you to declare, please, or to the College that we don't ask any more questions, because then every point of these questions is lost. So I don't know then this parliament also loses part of the purpose of its work and needs the public to know that it means this Parliament is powerless in front of issues that need to be resolved through its executive bodies. If so, then I agree and ask the means of information that so they say to the public that this Parliament is unable to raise any life issue that practically burdens this country and this society. If that's the case, here's how I explain it and say I'm not happy with the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11636	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. So I ask the other colleagues that the segments of the bones are dissatisfied with the indication. Please correct these microphones slightly, as it is said from the standing position that we have a correct tone for fellow journalists and a phonograph record. So please don't be angry. Let's try to make this watch productive. So it's not my goal to tell anyone, and I'm not telling my colleague Moranjkić that he doesn't have to explain it. But I think the way we normally do things when MPs are talking about our one unproductive hour, because no one's listening to us from the Council of Ministers. Here we are today, unfortunately there is no one who can help. It is only a sign that the Council of Ministers may need to when parliamentary issues are discussed in another way. Who's next to the word? So does anyone have any comments on the answers? Is there? She's got Sead Palavrić, so dr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11637	Unfortunately, only now did I find my answer on the bench. However, after this brief examination, I can say first of all that I am truly grateful to Minister Ivanic for the professionality of the answer itself. However, I must say that I cannot agree with his legal assessments whether there is, whether it is necessary to agree on these feelings or not, so in the part where questions are asked, I will add what is needed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11638	I thank my colleague Palavrić. The word was asked for by dr. Živković. Here you go, then, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11639	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, has been undeniable for a year and more, and I believe that it is the College who is responsible that these questions are not answered in 11 ways that are business, but it is also the group that has been responsible for recasting the Rules of Procedure, in which we have been waiting for a year and a few days. I think we both need it, and we can make it right because this has no purpose to do. The question I asked was very quick for me to answer, and I knew something was wrong as soon as I got it. Namely, I did not ask for an answer that was in charge of issuing licences, but I was asking for an answer why those who issue those licences when the APTF left Bosnia and Herzegovina without being considered relevant in any process when you run. Mr Gligorić will be my witness that when a competition was called for the State Border Service, no licenses were accepted by the competent institutions that issued those licences and those people could not run for those services. Only the licenses that were granted until 2000 were valid. It is a typical violation of human rights in this country where when an institution, an international community, in this case, leaves this country, the relevant organisation means the MUP RS and the Federation of the same-name organisations have given licenses, but they have not been accepted. How can these people protect those rights? That was supposed to be the answer, but here's the answer I'll probably be denied. There will still be rights violations in this country, but apparently no one cares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11640	...to someone asking a parliamentary question. So I express my public satisfaction and thank the committee that gave the answer. The other thing is, as pleased as I am, I think that the commission has given a very detailed answer, but what I want to say here about this answer is that there is a terrible disproportion between the declared national monuments, especially when it comes to religious objects. I really don't have what it is that all these monuments are wanted, or objects wanted to be declared, but I have to say that there are only a few churches on this list, and I don't know if there's one mosque and one cemetery that's not already declared nationalism. Of course I don't mind. The Commission is working in accordance with the regulation, but here I want to call on others to instruct petitions and proposals so that other objects can also get this status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11641	I thank my colleague Novaković. Any more comments on the answers? There isn't. Let's go with the new questions. kolega Jahić, Bešlagić, Raguž. Here you go. It's not Jahić, I apologize to Huskić Adem. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11642	I suggest you put one of my plates next to yours somewhere, so whenever I answer, you know my name. Okay. Possibly. I have here a record of the 13th session held on May 13, 2003, where I asked two parliamentary questions and I was right to tell you whether I should wait another month and a half to celebrate the anniversary of the questions asked without an answer. This time he would only ask the Council of Ministers if they didn't know the answers or not to deliver them? I think it's sad both things. I don't know which one's sadder. For the sake of the public and for the sake of my colleague, I'll repeat what these questions are. I think that lately she's kind of got the point, but that's what you can estimate. The first question was – Who owns and what is the fate of the objects owned by the SRBiH, and which are currently out of function and how many such objects are there? This was meant for those inside Bosnia and Herzegovina, although not listed, but I cited for example. Villa Gorica, Koprivnica, etc. The second question was – What activities has the Council of Ministers so far taken and what is it intending to do to protect the property of BiH legal persons located in the territory of the former SFRY member states and is there a list of those assets? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11643	Thank you, Huskić. Mr. Bešlagić Selim answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11644	Dear MPs, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have three questions and allow me, they are very short. The law on the indirect taxation system of Bosnia and Herzegovina lays down deadlines for the establishment of rules for the establishment of an indirect taxation agency and so on 1. The internal organisation regulation and deadline expired on 8 March 2004, 2. Rules of Procedure of the Committee, deadline expired on 8 March 2004, 3. The plan for organisational restructuring, the deadline of 8 April 2004 and it is approaching. As it is already delayed with the administration and its personnel teams, it is quite clear that there will be a delay in adopting other rules that need to ensure reform in the area of the tax and customs system, thus delaying the creation of a single 13 economic space, and effective collection and distribution of income from indirect taxes, while at the same time allowing for continued economic evasion of taxes and customs. This has reason to say, because the newly appointed director said he still doesn't have a salary and he's using his wife's phone, and we've hired him to build an organization that he's going to stop here I say big funds here. This question means asking Mr. Terzić and what is said - As long as the establishment of the Directorate for Direct Taxation of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as the adoption of the rules stemming from the Law on the Indirect Taxation System "Official Journal of BiH" No. 44/03.? The second question is -- Bosnia and Herzegovina's State Borders Commission sent to the Council of Ministers agreed... with the competent authorities of Serbia-Montenegro bilateral agreements on 3.6.2003 to implement state-level signing procedures. As traffic of people and goods at border crossings is carried out on the basis of a regulation on border crossings and control of the border crossing of Republika Srpska "Official Journal of the Republic of Serbia" No. 20/96, it is therefore necessary to sign an agreement at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro as soon as possible, also to sign a border traffic agreement and create conditions for a better living conditions on both sides of the border. Postponing the signing of the above bilateral agreements should not be tied to an agreement establishing borders between Bosnia and Herzegovina of Serbia-Montenegro. This second parliamentary issue is to the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić, or Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Ivanic, and it reads - Why did Bosnia and Herzegovina not join the signing of bilateral agreements with Serbia-Montenegro and this - the agreement on the setting of border crossings between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro, - the border traffic agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro and - the simplification of human traffic procedures, goods at the border crossings of the Uvac-Uvac, Ustibar-Brga? And the third question -- Bosnia and Herzegovina's State Commission for Borders sent Serbia-Montenegro's proposal to the Council of Ministers for the Exchange of Territories in the Accumulation of Lake Zvornik and Bajna Basta hydropower plants, as well as railway lines in the area of Strbac and Rudo municipality on 3.6.2003. As it is required that these parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina join Serbia-Montenegro on the principle of meter by meter, in order to continue to discuss establishing a borderline between the two countries, it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to be determined according to this requirement and to issue a platform for continuing talks on these very delicate issues. The third question is therefore referred to Mr Adnan Terzić, or Council of Ministers to Mr Adnan 14 - Why was the Council of Ministers not determined according to Serbia-Montenegro's request to exchange territories in the area of Drin Lake and the railway Strbac and Rudo? Who we're gonna give it to.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11645	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. The Secretariat will take questions from you in writing. Mr. Martin Raguž, First Vice Chairman, answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11646	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked only two questions in a year and a few days when he was High Representative and here you will not blame me today for asking a few questions. I will address the questions to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and I expect, regardless of which he is not present today directly today, that the Council of Ministers will give an answer to both your and our questions within the appropriate deadlines. What happened to the Colleges was that we moved the meetings of Thursday at the request of the Council of Ministers to other working days to allow for the smooth functioning of sessions and the presence of resolution ministers and people who can answer questions and here, regardless of which I expect that we will really start to get answers. My question concerns the catastrophic consequences that have taken place in the Municipality of Ravna. At the invitation of the people on Saturday night I went and really saw the dimension and scale of these, and the catastrophes and I ask the next question - What does the Council of Ministers know and does there have a report of floods with catastrophic consequences of the Municipality of Ravna and in the area of the entire Popo field? - If he doesn't have a report when he'll get it and when will he present it to the public? - What did it do to determine responsibility, because it has elements, I'm talking about having elements, I don't prejudge that it's absolutely a human factor? It is about how water accumulations are available to Lake Bilečko, which has a precise use regime in every year and in time, and how could this type of rainfall and snow melting occur with the largest water level in the lake? I remind you that over 200 hectares of the highest quality orchards, which have been planted and planted for 5 years and the first year of this year, have been flooded, and the possibility that people who have invested in restoring and reviving that area may see some benefit over a thousand acres of grain, vegetables and everything else. I note that this was all done by private means, without the help of the state and any level with a small donor aid from the countries. 15 According to the information that I have at my disposal the maximum capacities that the Trebišnice channel, and I will remind you that over $100 million was invested before the war and that it was one of the most qualified projects ever done in the former Yugoslavia that guarantees the minimum technical assumptions of water management, was covered with a water wave of 500, of over 500 cubic metres per second. So I'm looking for an explicit answer - when will the Council of Ministers file a report? - Who's going to make up for these people? - And is there a legal framework in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all, an instrumentation that can be managed with quality water resources? I find this question truly serious and obvious that there is absolutely no right now and that the consequences of this act, I responsibly argue about the continuation of war by other means. So, yes yes, I'm a war of war. That's exactly what I'm Water war, only it's a question of whether people who are once burned and burned can survive the water war again. I say, here we look, here I am not referring to any of you, but I am asking relevant information whether there are elements of them or not. And regarding this question - When will the Council of Ministers inform this Parliament and the public whether there is a legal framework and whether it can provide guarantees, or guarantees that the project of the upper horizons will not endanger the water flows and water regime of the river Bregava, Bune, Bunice and lakes and will it at all shut down the perspective of life in those areas? I'm not saying he will. But someone has to guarantee that this project won't go away, and according to that project, and those waters should go to this lake that we see couldn't withstand this new battery. I think that these are important issues and that we cannot cover everything with the story of reforms, neither I personally nor everyone else, because it is really about the lives and perspective of people, and that I am now not introducing the third question – What about electricity and such and huge hydroelectric potentials and why it is not being put into the function of the largest producers in this country, but is going on monopoly, exporting by other standards, and it raises a question of production and new investments that can only create a perspective here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11647	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. Dr. Weinberg said he'd heard from her. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11648	Mr. Chairman, I thought by mistake that he was doing this, so I e-mailed the request, so now they're informing me that I have to wave my hand, so I suggest to those who are waiting for Špirić to call them because they've turned on to start waving. In fact, I thank you, I have learned from the means of information really with infidelity that 13 generals will be appointed to the army of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is a good 16 news in itself, but also that all existing generals are going to retire or out of active service, i.e. they will not be able to be appointed Generals of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The issue concerns the chairmanship of Mr Tihić's presidency, above all, and then the presidency as a whole and the defence minister. - First, is this scandalous correct? Because I wouldn't want to qualify if she wasn't right. And if so – On what moral and political and professional criteria is it impossible for BH to be the general ones who defended this country, or those who have nothing to be ashamed of in their professional career and who have not sinned against international and domestic laws? - Why is a decision that violates the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the part of respecting the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, which is binding on every citizen of this country, and I am still hoping to get an answer that was a mistake? The second question, - I am looking for an emergency, but the point is on urgent information, on the state of negotiations with the IMF on a new stand-by arrangement, with an activity plan, which will result in a new agreement between our country and the IMF, in order to be able to, if possible, and if there were more flexibility, it would be urgently called up at the next parliamentary assembly meeting to hold a quality debate on this and stop the negative economic and social consequences of not having such a contract. In fact, it is known less, at least we should know it, and unfortunately we have not been officially informed about it, the Stand Bay arrangement has expired between BiH and the IMF and the new one has not yet begun to negotiate. I do not want to dramatise all this now, but the flow and arrival of the new Stand Bay arrangement implies the first consensus on the country's diagnosis of the situation, and the IMF has already given the status of forecasts on very exhaustive reports, which have not yet reached Parliament, so when agreement is reached, then it is entered into arduous negotiations in order to reach a stand-by arrangement. I responsibly claim that this leads to further economic and social tightening in the country, and therefore I ask that we report this as soon as possible, so that we can have an active debate on this, without shallowing. In order not to ask a third question to my colleague Špirić, I suggest that we prepare for the next House session information on the course of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to the European Union, because we have concluded that we will be regularly informed, and a report has been submitted to us as far as we have arrived and it is obvious that we have not arrived as far as we planned. So in order not to ask the question, I ask, and not to open the agenda point, the second time, to give us information, let's now invite them to do it for the next session to see where we are, so we don't have to be this parliament again, so that you don't be guilty, which the Council of Ministers doesn't do their job. 17 And, I suggest the second conclusion of fellow Špirić, although we have had similar, and even if this conclusion is not reached, I suggest that we no longer have points of the agenda of the question of the satanic. In fact, I propose that the Council of Ministers be bound, through the representatives of each ministry, to be present at each session when this item of the agenda is on the agenda, so that it can be blushed, not only in the Rules of Procedure, but in accordance with the elemental norm that exists in the municipalities of this country, in the cantons, in the entities and in every country on the planet. This is the only parliament asked by the Council of Ministers without people present here. I have never seen this in my life in any other way, and our leaders of Parliament have and what a good experience that in the world this practice is not known which we have introduced here on a small door.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11649	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Belkić answered the words, so Mr. Moranjkić, and Dr. Živković. You'll all get your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11650	I've had two questions, too, since one I've given up, it seems Mr. Lagumdžija has asked him. It's a matter of saying so to the general. The second issue is very short, it was addressed to the BiH presidency. Why doesn't the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency finally deliver the security policy document to this Parliament? I tried a couple of times through the College. College says we didn't get it. I've never been in a position to explain myself, maybe that document doesn't need any more. It is also the conclusion of this House. And, one suggestion to the College, when it comes to the inability to get answers, etc. in all that Mr. Živković spoke of, and Mr. Raguž simply needs to send a message to the Council of Ministers that this parliament has set them up. So, that this parliament has set them up.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11651	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11652	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I've been preparing two parliamentary questions. The first was the issue, which was included in the agenda, and concerns the effects of quarterly activities, related to agriculture and I give them up, I will hand it over in writing. The second question, I ask that both I and this Parliament be informed. Why isn't a commission of state-level legislation up to now, and when and as long as the time is right, it has to form and start working? It is already known to all that many capital projects such as corridor 5C, fast roads etc. They're waiting for the start of the commission. I wonder who 18 will be responsible for this and is it possible in this context only for roads to pass a law on concessions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11653	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. Dr. Živković answered for the word, then Sead Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11654	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, probably all of us who have traveled back and forth to Europe or elsewhere have had problems with these flights and more often, especially those who are in the Commissions for European Integration and Foreign Affairs, have these problems for visa security, Schengen visas, etc. My flight didn't leave this morning and I couldn't land at Munich Airport because I didn't have a Schengen visa secured and I'm asking a question for the foreign minister. Is there any possibility that for the holders of diplomatic passports, I am primarily referring to ministers and MPs to be provided in talks with the European Parliament and other competent international institutions of the Schengen visa, given that this is a necessary matter, that it is no expenditure and I think we could use such assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11655	I thank Dr. Živković. Seada Palavrić has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11656	Thank you. So, regarding the answer to my question, which I received from Minister Ivanić, it is definitely clear that a delegation of the RS as an entity traveled to Moscow. However, the answer puts out an opinion. Visits and co-operation with countries are not said to be visited, as are their regions and cities, if diplomatic relations have been established with the country, unless the BiH presidency has issued an explicit ban. I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deliver or inform me of an act that considers this to be the case. Second, the answer also states that under Article 3.2d. The BiH Constitution, entities achieve co-operation with other countries, regions and cities, in line with the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity of BiH. That member of the BiH Constitution delineates the conditions under which entities can conclude contracts with other countries and international organisations, and does not refer to their contracts with regions and cities of other countries. I believe that Article 3.2d. The Constitution does not say so and I pray, too, the Foreign Ministry to explain why this would not apply to agreements with regions and cities. When it comes to contracts, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also argues that Article 3.1.3. The BiH Constitution defines the competences of BiH institutions and entities, which give rise to the jurisdiction to conclude the contract, which treat the issue of regional and city competences. 19 I believe that these contracts fall under the provisions of Article 3.2.d. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And finally, due to the fact that a contract between Republika Srpska as an entity is now expected to be concluded as an entity, therefore, on the lease of equipment provided by the government of Moscow's ten-million-dollar RS economy, it has been concluded that urgent approaches to contract signing and concrete realization are being concluded. I believe that such a contract requires the consent of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, when it comes to the composition of the delegation, the final conclusion is from the response to the reference of thousands of construction workers from the RS to work in Moscow, it is concluded that experts from the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction of the RS, urgently resolve all issues with experts from the Government of Moscow and opted out whether it is more favourable for construction firms from the RS to perform as contractors under the contractors or for workers to be sent to work within companies that are already working in Moscow. I also think that this agreement requires the consent of the Parliamentary Assembly of Article 3.2.d. The constitution and, by the way, a Hrvat walked next to the Serb people's delegation. I'm asking the minister why didn't the resolution minister of the spatial order that's Bošnjak go? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11657	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11658	Question for Mr. Tihić's presidency. Namely, whether the last statements of a member of the Bureau were given as a member of the Bureau or perhaps in another function, given the fact that these statements are directly against the Constitution, which Mr Tihić needs to adhere to. I would also like to inform this home, as well as the public of BiH, that the SDS Parliament Club will reconsider its relationship with the Council of Ministers, that from today the Council of Ministers does not have the support of the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party and will support only those decisions of the Council of Ministers, which are in the function of constitutional jurisdiction and, above all, the preservation of RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11659	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11660	...now informs us through the question that they do not support this council of ministers. Please, there's no country in the world where there wouldn't be a little longer breaks here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11661	Okay, break for half an hour. 20 Let's go, I'm sorry the break lasted longer for technical reasons, and otherwise we're not exactly the most valuable when we're giving a pousse, it's unfortunately longer than we say, but here's the break Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija asked for. [[PAUZA]] Is there any need to explain? Here's Dr. Lagumdžija. You can get out of the place, and you can get out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11662	Although this is no ordinary discussion, it's a bit unusual all of it, but Mr. Novaković has unusually initiated this discussion from the scene, so can I. Mr. Chairman, given that Mr. Novaković's statement, as president of the SDS Club, is creating a completely new fact and a political dream in the country, and knowing that there is a full consensus here in this Parliament, that reforms are being accelerated and they are being substantial, given that the Stabilisation and Association Treaty is something that is a major test for all of us, and which is clearly late, and in particular not saying anything new about the economic and social situation in the country, which is, least of all, tragic. We believe that the institutions of this country must work in accordance with the Constitution, regardless of the current political will and relations that exist. For these reasons, given that at the meeting of the House of Representatives of the SDS, today 31.03, the head of the SDS Club informed the House that his party no longer currently supports the Council of Ministers, making it clear that the current government does not have a parliamentary and political majority. Worried about the economic and social situation in the country, general integrity as well as the need to speed up reforms and meet the conditions leading us to a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, and in accordance with Article 116(1). The rules of procedure of this house, we are initiating a motion for a vote of no confidence to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. to People's say his shift. Therefore, we ask the Chairman of the House to refer to this Council of Ministers' replacement initiative in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in line with the seriousness of the situation in the country, which, in this act, is even more complex to say not only created. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, an initiative of this kind can be launched by one club of Members or ten MPs. I would like to inform you that for a short period of time, we are giving you this initiative signed by the clubs and MPs and by the 14 MPs from the seven parties: SDP, SNSD, Socialists, NHI, DNZ, BOSS and Radikal, as well as one number of independent MPs. To be very clear and precise, for the sake of the manetogram, because the signatures can be inaccessible, they are under the signatories: Lagumdžija, Špirić, Bešlagić, Kunić, Kragulj, Gligorić, Živković, Križanović, Lozančić, Duraković, Đedović, Moranjkić, Potočnik and Blagojević. I will hand this over to you so that you can act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I appeal that on behalf of the people who signed to continue the session today and try to do what every institution needs to do its job, regardless of what we heard today and what we started. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11663	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija, it will be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I beg of you, since we're looking for a break to continue with the parliamentary issues. I'll give you my word, please, this isn't a replica right now, these are parliamentary questions. A request for a break behind the parliamentary question. You may as well ask for a break, but please no replicas, there are parliamentary questions. Let me have this session. I don't mind if you get your word, but don't make it a replica to go in now and spend five hours instead. So, there is an initiative, according to the House's initiative, there will be a chance to speak out in a regular, parliamentary, don't turn this into mutual discussion. This is an initiative to propose a break and there is no replica with the initiative, as it has never been. We have parliamentary questions, a follow-up of parliamentary questions. Please allow us to conduct an orderly session. This is what we're gonna talk about. There's time. MPs' questions. Did you ask for a break? You're not.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11664	It wasn't us, was it all one thing that asked for a break?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11665	No, no, the break explains who was looking for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11666	I'm not explaining the break. I'm explaining the result of the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11667	Your break score. Here you go. You said the line, and there's no need for a replica. We'll see...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11668	I say what I say, on behalf of the HDZ-Democracy Representatives Club, aware of the problems in the functioning of Bosnia and Herzegovina, initiated by numerous initiatives to change the country's structure, we seek to hold a thematic session of this home, on the subject of the constitutional arrangement of BiH and, possibly, constitutional changes, and in order to ensure the functionality of adapting to European Union standards and the self-sustaining development of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the equality of its peoples and citizens. We propose that the College of the House and the Constitutional and Legal Committee prepare the starting points for discussion and a proposal for possible conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11669	Thank you. So, an initiative like any other initiative. She'll be treated in business. 22 Who continues to report for parliamentary drinking, we continue. Here you go, Mrs. Ruža Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11670	I'm asking the Council of Ministers to make us a next report. What are the financial effects of the Council of Ministers' decision on the release of customs duties and taxes on imports of semi-distributed and fully separated cars for companies that have contracts with foreign partners and positive and negative effects per year, since when has this decision been used? Namely, and if the decision is of temporary character, I have information that it has been used for four years and that they have made a point to us from European institutions. Also, after years of reporting to us for previous years, and I also suggest that, for the possible re-determination of the decision, that the forecasts for the effects of this year should be made again, and also, please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11671	I thank my colleague Sopta. Who's next to the word? There's no one here. Ladies and gentlemen, we're concluding the second point, these are parliamentary questions. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad. 3. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Azra Hadžiahmetović for the examination of the proposal for a law amending the customs tariff law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure have received a report on an effort to reach agreement. As you've seen, no consent has been reached. I request Azra Hadžiahmetović to vote in the second round. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? So, of the 38 present, it's 21 against 15 and 2 abstentions. Let's go round two. Who's from the Federation against? Who's from the RS against? Federation 9 – Republika Srpska 10, I am sorry this conclusion has not been adopted. 23 Ad.4. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering by Emergency Procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for this Law, as well as the draft law at the next five points, were given to you on 15 March. The Proposer shall request that they be considered in accordance with the reduced procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House. I'm opening a debate on the request of the Council of Ministers. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11672	The Business College is interpreting the Rules of Procedure, and if we had one dilemma at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I would ask the College to give the interpretation of this dilemma. Namely, on the agenda of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, two days ago, these six laws were found to establish the constitutional and legal basis before the procedure was established here at home. So I am, therefore, interested in the next session, so not until today, but until the next session of the College's interpretation, is it possible to enter the commission phase without determining the procedures under which the laws will be discussed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11673	I thank my colleague Novaković. So it's not possible. If we stick to the Rules of Procedure strictly. Once we determine the procedure, it goes to the competent committees. It was, therefore, very important that progress was made to speed up the procedure and led by it, so we don't think it is, since I am against breaking the Rules of Procedure in any case, but please, therefore, do not open the debate now. Mr. Ćeman, please, it's good that it's over, given that it's business, so if we stick strictly to the Rules of Procedure, then it would be logical to give the law to the committee responsible, but I don't mind that this is over. I think it's good and it's going to change the Rules of Procedure in that sense. It's done.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11674	I say hello to everyone, you know what this is about? Most of the Commission has assessed and I want it to be understood, therefore, that, having regard to, of course, the business provision and the fact that, regardless of whether the procedure has taken place, let me say in a shortened or regular manner, the Constitutional and Legal Commission is giving an opinion on the constitutional and legal basis and the urgency of the Rules of Procedure is not in this regard to stopping the procedure in that place. So, of course, let the College give its opinion, but I am personally convinced that this procedure that we have implemented is not the opposite, therefore, is not the opposite of the Rules of Procedure. It would be the opposite if the committee in charge discussed and the committee in charge prevented MPs from considering the law within that longer period, etc. But it's your job now, and you, of course, now answer your colleague Novaković. I respect his opinion, but I want to say that we, at least 24 of the majority of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, talked about it, what they say in good faith and with good intentions and understood the business provision and that it was meant to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11675	Thank you. Just a little clarification. I don't think anything's been done wrong. So there was, the case was and the committee was discussing it, but, since the Rules of Procedure leaves the possibility of a different interpretation, I think we did nothing, we did a good thing for the processes to go forward. In that sense, the Rules of Procedure have been interpreted in another way, which slows down, causes obstruction and changes to the Rules of Procedure, i.e. clear interpretation. Please don't open the debate now. We need to discuss the metrics. We're discussing the procedure today and let's not go back to something else now. It could have been in the context of parliamentary issues. You can ask the College whenever you want, but let's stick to the agenda. She was looking for Sead, so Mr. Belkić, well, I'm just asking you to stick to the agenda, so Momo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11676	I'm really sticking to the agenda. I have a business intervention in the sense that the chairman of when to discuss should apply and discuss. The Lord asked the College for an answer, chairing him himself. I ask for a word, the chairman gives a word to whoever he wants to politicize, and when it comes to answering, you don't give a word. I'm just asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11677	I thank my colleague Palavrić. Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11678	Let's stick to the Rules of Procedure, but I can't say, simply that all this holding of the Rules of Procedure, or the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, you said yourself that it could be interpreted like this. Interestingly, it always goes in the direction of prolonging the process of stopping the process. I want you to know that. I am precisely recognising the results of such interpretations or not interpreting procedures, not procedures, the dream is lateness, a stalemate, and a simple man is beginning to convince himself, i.e. that he suspects that he is doing this in thought. Then you should say, we're not about to adopt this, we're not about this, we don't need this, and there's no problem in knowing. Let's not get all worked up about this anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11679	I thank my colleague, Belkić. I'm using the line right after Seada Palavrić warned me, here's an announcement for the replica. Please, we have a agenda today, because the College has reached agreement by interpreting the Rules of Procedure to speed up this process and don't ask us to accuse us because we could today anyway. We've done what's best for 25 states and now I can't just figure out what Mr. Belkić is saying that someone will, it's true that he has our differentafinities, our appetites in this House. Some may want to block, but the College has made a move, knowing that there will be questions like this, that these will be the points of the agenda today to make a statement about the procedure, and when we are doing changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure, some things must be defined more precisely not to give. Please, the House of the Peoples has not agreed, what we need to kill each other that we agreed on. Mr. Bešlagić answered for the word, and Novaković answered. And the replica is Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11680	I've asked my fellow Members here several times that what I said to the interpreters in the way I said. We will make our relationship to these laws completely clear and publicly here by raising a card. Even according to the request to be in short procedure. Which, I guess, will tell you enough how we feel about the speed these laws need to adopt or not adopt. Insuation of Mr. Belkić, of course I can be. A man can have his own opinion, and that's his opinion. And he and I should stick to the Rules of Procedure. I did not ask for the interpretation of Mr. Belkić or Mr. Špirić or Mrs. Seada, I asked for the interpretation of the College. Because the College is the only one who can interpret this. So absolutely not calling and not prejudicing any solution. If we wanted the processes to slow down, then I would have left that session, thinking that their interpretation, or the interpretation of the other colleagues, was not good. So, I said my own, people said their own. We kept working. I ask you to do so, in exactly the way we treat each other's discussions, not to have someone interpret what I thought or what I was going to do, and I did something else. I'm asking you to, really in that way, that's how I understand other colleagues, and I'm asking them to understand me that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11681	I thank my colleague Novaković. I'm interrupting this wild debate, about, I apologize to my colleague Bešlagić. It can only be about whether we're short or not for short procedure. The commission phase comes later. So we'll just have to talk about what's the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11682	The Council of Ministers' request here is written. I don't know any commission. That is why I ask that votes be voted for by the Council of Ministers' proposal to adopt the laws by a shortened procedure. And I don't have to be a board member to know it was there. So, please, this is where the Council of Ministers writes and put it to a vote. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11683	Thank you. Is anyone else answering about the procedure? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is in order to support the Council of Ministers' request that the draft law on the prevention of money laundering by emergency procedure be discussed in accordance with Article 104. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? There isn't. Thank you. So we unanimously accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering by Emergency Procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. So 38 for. This vote has shown that we've had a needless debate in the last ten minutes. Ad.5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on the State Agency of Investigation and Protection under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a hearing on the request. Is anyone picking up? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. Who is it that we accept the Council of Ministers' request to discuss this in accordance with the shortened procedure of Article 104? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize we're 38 for none against, not one abstention. Therefore, unanimously accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad.6. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina Police Officers on an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Who's picking up the phone? Mr. Potočnik, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11684	I would just suggest that we use this technique that we have just as fast points as this one will allow us to be able to work. The technique is correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11685	There's time to exercise technique. So, who's coming forward for the debate? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. 27 Who is it to support the Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on BiH police officers in accordance with Article 104? Do you mind? Abstained? There isn't. So, with 38 votes for, not one against, no abstentions, we accepted a proposal from the Minister's Council to consider the BiH Police Officers' Bill in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Ad.7. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on witness protection programme in BiH, by emergency procedure, also in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. Who is it to support the Council of Ministers' proposal? Do you mind? Is he restrained? There isn't. Thank you. We also unanimously adopted a proposal from the Council of Ministers to consider the Law on the Witness Protection Programme in BiH in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Ad.8. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Proposal for a Law on Civil Service in BiH institutions, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. Who is it to support this Council of Ministers proposal? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree that we unanimously accepted the Council of Ministers' proposal to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Ad.9. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Criminal Procedure Act under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's be clear about the procedure. Who's to accept the Council of Ministers' request for procedure? Do you mind? Ugly? There isn't. 28 Thank you. So we unanimously accepted the Council of Ministers' request to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on Criminal Procedure in BiH, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. A.10 Request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on High Court and Prosecutorial Council, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure This law, as well as the law of the next two points, was sent to you on 25 March. I'm opening a debate on this request. Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11686	I'd just ask. Is it possible with this law, since this commission has long been working to get a report from the commission, because we know that the appointments have been extremely, extremely many remarks. Only if it's possible to get a report of the commission's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11687	I don't know what commission you mean? This is the agenda point where we decide on the procedure. Don't make it too complicated, please. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and we're going to a plea. Who's to accept the Council of Ministers' proposal? Here you go. We've started the vote. Please remain in progress.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11688	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about a very important law and I think it's a real shame that he didn't experience the debate inside, to say that he didn't go to regular procedure within Parliament. If it's any matter of transfer of jurisdiction, then this is a matter of transfer of jurisdiction. As far as I know, the judiciary is in charge, in the sole jurisdiction of the entity. True, the High Representative transferred some jurisdiction regarding the court to BiH institutions, which was later verified. However, this is about the high court and prosecutorial council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is taking responsibility for the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Number one. So, when we discuss this issue, we have to keep that in mind. The second question, which deserves special attention, I mean this parliament as a whole, which is a matter of judicial reform. The issue of judicial reform has taken over the actual OHR. But I think it's very, very, little done. It was done for the reason that I believe 29 accepted one wrong concept, that the wrong concept was accepted, look at the appointment of the prosecution council, where you actually have an interested group, which appoints judges and prosecutors. So, the structure that appoints them is, in fact, appointed from its ranks without the influence of other BiH institutions. I'm afraid it's not on the trail of impartiality and not the dependence of the work of the judiciary. The basic concept that has been accepted is the division of power. The division of power requires mutual control of the government. So both judicial, legislative and executive, where one controls the other and, precisely, that is the potential, which is most important for the work of the institutions of the state.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11689	Dr. Crescent. Kunić, if I may just for a moment. I really respect your instructions, but this is a matter of procedure. So there's going to be an opportunity in a shortened procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11690	Let me just say for further discussion. This calls for Parliament to consider whether these structures are suitable for its members in the Council of Prosecutors, i.e. the Judicial Council. Should the NGOs of the organization be involved? Should more Parliament be involved in this? Because here, as you can see, almost a whole of these representatives are appointed by the D.A., i.e. the judiciary and the bar. So it's a group of stakeholders and it's about breaking up the concept of the division of government within the state, within the state system. A single enclave is created, which is not controlled by the other institutions of the system. Which is not applicable to these spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11691	Thank you. I beg you, please, let us discuss only the procedure, not to discuss the essence. We're gonna lose half an hour of stories again. We're discussing procedure today. I won't take a word from anyone, but in the future, I will take every right to a word that doesn't exactly stick to the agenda. Mr. Ćeman, go ahead, but I'm asking you to help yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11692	It's about procedure. I am reporting that I support the examination of this proposal of the law under Article 104, but I have a proposal that professional services, for the sake of the quality of the debate, will follow the urgent preparation of a comparative review in a number of relevant countries, especially those from which experts participated in the preparation of this law, what are the solutions in their countries. So the commission, who will be in charge, and the MPs have that in mind when they consider it. Thank you very much. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11693	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Is anyone still picking up the word? He's not picking up anything. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it to accept the Council of Ministers' proposal to discuss Article 104? Who's against it? Ugly? I ask the MPs to vote in line, at least with the story. So we're talking procedure. Part of the MPs didn't vote. Please report. So of the 35 present, or 36 present, 35 is for. No one against, no one abstentions, one abstentions. I thought I saw three MPs not voting. They were there, but they didn't vote. A proposal by the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on High Court and Prosecutorial Council has been adopted, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider draft law on litigation before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and we're going to a plea. Who's to accept the Council of Ministers' proposal? Who's against it? Abstained? Ladies and gentlemen, I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law on litigation before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Ad.12. A request from the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Framework Ozakon on Higher Education in BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Martin Raguž, First Deputy Chairman
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11694	... the law of importance for BiH, for full higher education. Načlin way the law came to Parliament means, long wait in the Council of Ministers and the way in which this law is decided, the way I vote, which, according to my information, but that doesn't have to be the reason, it doesn't have to be relevant for this decision. Also highly questionable because of the fact that this law provides for the transfer of competence in one part of BiH from those who currently have 31 have exclusive powers and retains in the other, I believe that it deserves a full parliamentary debate that the Bosnian Herzegovic public and all relevant institutions in BiH are given the opportunity to get acquainted with the views of all club and party representatives and our proposal is that this law goes into regular procedure. I don't think we're squeezed here, let us have any obligations to the Council of Europe in this part of the deadline. Let's discuss it and pass a quality law. I think there's a lot of arguments for regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11695	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the raps. We're going to a plea. Who is it, to accept the request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH under Article 104? Who's against it? Abstained? No abstentions, so, of the 37 present, 29 for, 8 abstentions, no one is against. Eight against and no one is abstentioned. So we're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you, from RS, who's in favour? Federation 16 for, RS 12 for. Therefore, the Council of Ministers has adopted a proposal to discuss the Higher Education Act under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We're going to the 13th item of the agenda, that's Ad.13. Application by the Election Commission to consider the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the BiH Election Law under an urgent procedure, also in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, the legislator of this law as you have seen, was the BiH Election Commission, the draft law to Parliament, delivered on Friday 26 March. It was delivered to you today at the beginning of the session. I'm opening a debate on the Electoral Commission's request. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of accepting the BiH Election Commission's request? Do you mind? Abstained? No, I thank the 32 dama and gentlemen, I agree that we unanimously accepted the request of the Election Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad.14. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Anthem of BiH, the second reading, the proposal for a law in the first reading, was adopted at the 31st session. There were no amendments to the bill at the commission stage either. The committee unanimously supported the bill. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. Who's in favour of adopting the Law on the BiH National Anthem, amending and supplementing the law? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? So there are no 38 votes for, not one against, no abstentions, so we unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH National Anthem. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda, that's Ad. 15. The draft law amending and supplementing the BiH coat of arms law, the second reading of the first reading bill was also adopted at the 31st session. There have been no amendments and we have received a positive report from the Commission that this law is adopted in a second reading. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Who is it for us to accept in our second reading the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the coat of arms of BiH? Do you mind? No uzdržan? No, thank you. So we unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the coat of arms of BiH. 33 Let’s go to the 16th point of the agenda, that’s Ad.16. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law of the flag of BiH, second reading and this law was unanimously adopted by the competent commission. At the first session of the House was adopted in the first reading, the amendment was not in the meantime. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. Who is it for us to accept the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on the flag of BiH in the second reading? Do you mind? Abstained? No, thank you. We unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction of BiH. We're moving ladies and gentlemen to the 17th point, that's Ad.17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on BiH's Law on Law of Law, the reading of the Proposed Law on the Ombudsman was adopted in the first reading at the 31st session. The respective Constitutional and Legal Commission adopted 5 amendments. In the plenary phase, we have amendments submitted by Mirsad Ćeman, calling for Article 94, paragraphs 1 and 2. So, Mr. Ćeman has amendments to the amendments to the Commission and amendments that, in the plenary phase, repeat in the plenary phase is. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? So the debate on amendments and the law, Mr. Ćeman, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11696	My colleagues and colleagues, last time speaking about the proposal of this law, which is here today, I will partially repeat, pointed out that one of the most important principles in the initial proposal, namely the Council of Ministers' proposal, contained eradicating the principles of rotation of lawyers and his deputies from the current law, which is acceptable to me, but of course does not mean ignoring those principles which, in the work of one of these, first of all, I would say professional institutions as well as others should in some ways imply, but I really don't think that there is enough reason to keep the principle of rotation. For this reason, I have disputed an amendment that has quite correct, legitimately, legally, constitutionally-legal commission as a competent commission adopted and amended the draft law in relation to the initial proposal of the Council of Ministers. 34 The other thing I would like to point out is that, by accepting one amendment from another fellow MP, it has actually become a groundless vote on my amendment to the article and it seems to me to be a bill of law. In fact, it's about saying so to the protection facility, or what protects the D.A. as a professional institution. In the proposal and the Council of Ministers, it was said that the Ombudsman was protecting the state body that was taking measures and remedies for the legal protection of property interests of BiH institutions. I have suggested and repeated, renewed that amendment and I am saying this to actually encourage you to support my proposal, to delete the word of the institutions. Why? Because the simplest way, the BiH state has and can have property and property interests that are not the property interests of institutions as such. The institutions are from this Parliament to I don't know which other body but has property outside the property that its institutions have. That's why it seems legal, in fact, correct to delete the word – the institution because the remaining assets of the institution are a little un-caricated but I have shown that they can be tables, chairs, computers and lots of things, but the property can be extended is, the term and it is given as such once or always to manage this institution or that institution. For this reason, I have reported to actually suggest and ask for the support of one such approach, above all, the basic one when it comes to the return to the law of a provision that does not mean the rotation of the lawyers and his deputies and the other, enlargement, I would say the property protection facility not only of the institutions but of the general sense of BiH's property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11697	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11698	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We, or the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party, will not support Mr. Ćeman's amendments. In fact, we believe that Amendment II to Amendments II, III and V have been adopted that we have received a law that is acceptable, and which, on the one hand, meets all that the Proposer wanted to achieve and, on the other hand, is a compromise with what our club considered important. The amendment and Mr. Ćeman is particularly unacceptable given his intensities to virtually wipe out entity attorneys. By erasing the concept of the institutions, in fact, the Ombudsman takes practical protection of this, in BiH, so the practical consequences of adopting this amendment would be the disappearance of the Advocate General at the entity level that we are absolutely against. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11699	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11700	I do not, of course, agree with the interpretation of my amendment relating to Article 1 of the basic text of the law, because before and before this Law on the Defence and before the law in the area of property rights and any one that speaks of the property at its disposal of the state, it was clear that certain assets had the means to say the state level, the republican level or how at which stage this level could be called, as well as lower levels. Therefore, according to the basic elements of the property this, the principle of property law was defined by both property and property it had both the municipality and the other one, interstates today. Therefore, this does not necessarily mean that let me put it this way, the state of the total property, now only this here is just specified, and I would ask my colleagues that in this respect, if there is an argument here, the object or protection of the property is and what is not only literally property within the institutions as such, but property in a general sense which, it has, may and should have, this state of BiH. Take, for example, the Law on concessions and this law and the Agreement on Sucession, etc. You have property there that doesn't belong to any institution right now. But it is now the pravobranlaštvo and some other authorities but also the D.A. that will be one of the entities that will protect the interdepartmental one and this one, the property interests of BiH in that part. So I really don't think this objection stands at all. His, uh, intensity of my amendment isn't that, it's just like I said expansion. I use the intentional expression of the object of protection, so property in a broader sense understood rather than just literally, because this is how you believe that I can't understand other than the property of the institutions. The property of Parliament is tables and chairs if there are any, what else. So it's not just a task of this, the D.A.'s office to protect such a reduced concept of property and property rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11701	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Mrs. Seada's palaur picked up her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11702	Let me join what Mr. Ćeman says and remind me, that BiH's defender must represent the BiH state whenever the state is sued. Whether it's the right to work, whether it's the right to property, or whether it's anything. The state's been tužiti. Not some institution, any of the institutions, has been sued, but the BiH state. So, really, I'm telling my colleague, Novaković, that it's not at all intention to do what he thinks it is. And besides, I'd like to ask before voting on the 15-minute break amendments on behalf of the SDA Club. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11703	Thank you. Who's on the phone for the word? No one's answering for a word. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what we've concluded, just to agree to conclude a debate on the law and amendments. We'll have after the break we're giving, can half an hour have lunch with those who haven't taken a break to eat? Half an hour's break after just voting on amendments and the law. I'm closing the debate. We'll continue at 1:15. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Please establish the quorum. We've got a quorum, at least what I'm seeing in flight. So, at the request of the SDA Club, we took a break. Is there a need for an explanation? No. So, we've concluded so 28 is present. We have concluded the debate on Mr. Ćeman's amendments. We're going to a plea. Who's in favour of supporting the amendment and Mr. Ćeman? Who's against the amendment and Mr. Ćeman? Who's being held back? No abstentions, give us the results of the vote. So, of the 31 present, 17 for, 14 against, no one is abstentioned. Who's from the Federation of BiH, for? Thank you. Who's from the RS, for? 15 for, 2 abstentions, so 15 from the Federation for, 2 from RS. So this amendment is going to be agreed upon. Should we wait for the third member of the College of Harmony? Is he here or is he gone? He's coming. Well, then, finally, let's go, okay? Let's go, it's a deal. Who is for Amendment II to Mr. Ćeman to be accepted? Who's in? Who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? So 15 for, 15 against, 3 abstentions. I find Amendment II not accepted. There's no need to go to the entity, please repeat the vote. Please nice, who's and please, it's because the Šefik's here, isn't it? _______: 37 [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, you can't believe it. You saw that Šefik came. Just be honest, it's not a problem. We're done,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11705	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11706	But you didn't challenge it just now. Why didn't you argue a moment ago? It's a closed vote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11707	Don't deny me everything today. I have the right to individual...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11708	Please be nice if we're going to the calling or we're going to
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11709	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11710	Repeat the vote, please let's do it again. Who's in favour of Amendment II? Please don't let us play here as children. Who's in? It's like someone's been here 2 years and someone's 28. Come on, please, Sead, we'll do it again. There's no one out there who can fool anyone. When you realize it, it'll be easier for you. Who's against it? Abstained? So, of the 36 present, 17 for, 16 v, 3 abstentions. We're going to an entity. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you, who's from RS for? Give us the results. Federation 14 for, RS 2 for. We're going to get a match. It was just before the first vote of 17, now 14. We're going to Amendment III. Who's for, for that, to accept amendment number III of Mr. Ćeman? Who's against it? Who's being held back? 38 So 17 for, 16 against, 3 abstentions. So we're going entityically. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? So he doesn't have an entity majority, he's going to go to alignment and Amendment number III. 15 from the Federation, 2 from RS, has no entity majority. We're going to Amendment IV. Who's in favour of accepting amendment IV to Mr. Ćeman? Who's against it? Abstained? So of the 37 present, 17 for, 17 v, 3 abstentions. I find this amendment has not been accepted. I'm just asking you to try to adjust a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously there's no consent by the way you vote, you've seen. Let's go say definitely. So we're definitely going to the vote. We repeat the vote whether it's for the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11711	Yes, who is for, who is against, restrained, who is against?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11712	Yes, yes, so we're going to Amendment I.. kao's in favour of this amendment? Who's for the amendment and Mr. Ćeman? Thank you, who's against it? Who's being held back? 19 for, 17 against, 1 abstention. We're going entityically. Who's against the Federation? Who's against the RS? I thank you everything will be democratically completed, don't worry. So from Federation 5 v, RS 12 v. Amendment number I is not accepted. 39 Let's go to Amendment II. Who's for amendment number II Mr. Ćeman? Who's against it? Abstained? ... 17 for, 17 against, 3 abstentions. So there's no need for this amendment to go to another one, is there? He doesn't have most of them. So Amendment number II is not accepted. We don't have to continue the plea procedure. We're going to Amendment III. Who is it, to accept Amendment number III, Mr. Ćeman? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. So 17 for, 17 against and 3 abstentions. So Amendment number III is not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the debate on amendments. So no amendments have been accepted. Let's go out on the bill of amendments and additions to the Law on BiH's Defence. Who's in favour of accepting this law? Who's against it? Abstained? So 37 present, 24 for, and 13 against, 1 abstention. We're going to the second round of voting, the first round of entity. Who's from RS for? A little mixed, thank you, who's from the Federation for? So 12 from RS for, 11 from the Federation for. I agree that we have passed the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Defence. You see how power, most and opposition can work on the good of our country. Moving on to, why the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11713	He didn't come out for a pay phone 40.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11714	...and you, Mr. Ćeman, will do so. Don't be angry, you hate it, so you know how many times you've joined the MPs from the RS against the wall. Thank you. We're going to the 19th agenda, to the 18th item of the agenda, Ad. 18. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the BiH Violation Act Report, have you received a report from the Commission? So we're going to the vote. Who is it to accept the Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on Violations in BiH? So who's up for it? Do you mind? Is he restrained? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, we have unanimously accepted the Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the BiH Violation Act. That's how we passed that law. Moving to the 19th agenda, that's Ad.19. The establishment of a joint Security Intelligence Commission for the City Intelligence Security Agency, the selection of members of the Commission in accordance with the Act of the Intelligence Security Agency, the House of Representatives and the Home of the People shall establish a Joint Security Intelligence Commission for the work of the Intelligence Security Commission. The Commission shall elect 12 members, by 6 from each home, by having discussed it at the College and the structure would be the same as the Commission for the control of the armed forces. So 3 plus 2 plus 1 in the national structure, so House of Representatives 3 Bošnjak, 2 Srbin 1 Hrvat, and in the House of Nations 2 plus 2 plus 2, since it is the representation of the people. We were talking about candidates within the Expansive College. It remains for the club presidents, to this session and to this point of the agenda to consider and propose candidates. So SDS, HDZ and other SDP clubs and other opposition clubs. I have to tell you that the SDA has proposed its candidate. I'm asking Šefik to make a name.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11715	Bošnjak 41
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11716	The Bošnjak, that only so if the SDA proposes one, so the others or if the SDA wants to propose all three candidates from its club, I ask
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11717	Please be nice, I'm so here's my proposal as a member of the College. So we have proposed Mr Hazim Felić to go to the Commission and since the opposition should definitely be one of the members of that commission or more members, is that the opposition man will be at the head of the commission, who will be, it will see the Commission later on according to schedule. hospodin Sead Avdić is therefore proposed and we left the Party for BiH to tell the Party for BiH and here is the Party for BiH proposed by Mr Nijaz Duraković. That's three Bošnjak, so here's the ones in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11718	Thank you on behalf of the club please SDS just, a little, just a little please SDS is supposed to suggest? Jovanović Miloš, on behalf of the opposition Srbin Nikola Špirić, HDZ Fili Andrić, please, do we have a nice one. Mr. Moranjkić on behalf of the club I received a written proposal. I'm obliged to inform is proposed this, Potočnik Mladen. Please nice, any other suggestions? Mr. Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11719	On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to propose to my colleague Lagumdžija Zlatko for one reason, because he is only a member of a committee in Parliament so far. I don't know if I should explain it any further, but I think it surprises me that Mr. Džaferović is proposing this, on behalf of a clubmate who isn't from his club or maybe they are, but we should know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11721	I would ask colleagues, of course, and my colleague Križanović that when they speak in this parliament, they speak with the necessary amount of dignity, dignity and that they do nothing that may be contrary to the code of conduct of MPs. I was very clear, therefore, when I was a member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives College of the Bosniak People, that is my position here. My constitutional position, put forward a proposal for candidates from the Bosniak people and presented the schedule by political parties and said that 42 proposals to be before the opposition, therefore not the authorities, Mr. Sead Avdić, whose political party is not in the power of Mr. Križanović, you know that well. I ask you not to insinuate without need.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11722	Thank you, fellow Šefik. The word has Mr. Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11723	I really need to replicate. For the first time in a year and a half as long as I'm in this home, I'm the first person to replicate. I don't even know what I'm doing, getting out of some code of good behavior for a representative of this house. If I have expressed my surprise, a normal surprise that in this house is not proposed on behalf of the people but on behalf of the political parties, on behalf of the clubs. And please nice, I don't think there's anything surprising or rude about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11724	I thank my colleague Križanović. I have to go now, we need to get out of this situation. I think everyone should take care of the way we talk to each other. I think clubs really should propose, that's my view. Clubs should propose their candidates and, of course, the College when the clubs propose it can have its proposal to propose to Dom whether or not to go through with it, but here's the situation we need to get out of. So the structure of the commission must be 3 plus 2 plus 1. So, just a little bit, so we have the position of Collegi Hazim Felić, Sead Avdić, Duraković, Jovanović Miloš, Nikola Špirić and Filip Andrić. We've got two more suggestions, later on, that's where Potočnik Mladen and Zlatko Lagumdžija came in. Now we have to see how. We have to go, so we have to vote on the College's proposal. If it doesn't pass, then we'll have to vote with these names as well. I'm sorry we have to go out on business. Who's in favour of the College's proposal when it's in favour? Just a moment to finish the vote, please, Mr. Križanović. Who's in, then we'll go later, there's no problem in finishing the round of voting. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? So of the 37 present, 27 for, 5 abstentions, 5 against. 43 Let's go to the second round of voting. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? I thank you from Federation 15 for, from RS 10 for. This is what we ladies and gentlemen have ended, so we have made a decision to form 6 members on the committee, and that decision will be forwarded to the House of Peoples to elect 6 members, and thus we would strongly support the process of appointing the Head of Security Intelligence, and you know what the legal solutions are that the Commission must also work, that both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers must work. Thank you very much. We're going to, please go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11725	I ask you to give the information as many parliamentarians as the commissions. I know that some of them are in 7.6 and some of them here in this way are making it impossible for them to be in 2 commissions. So make a list, and you'll see why we might not be effective.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11726	I thank you. You'll get that list. I have to say for me, this is the first commission I've ever been on. But here's the information for everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11727	Mr. Chairman, I asked for a word before the vote, so I'm thinking what I'm saying right now has no effect but for the sake of the truth, I think you've hurried the vote and put it on a motion to vote by the College. That doesn't fit the truth at all, because the College didn't come out here with a concrete proposal, but here we've proposed to the candidates' clubs in the commission. I think that all the proposals that were made here today, in the run, were even and should have been equally stated. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11728	Thank you, but we just had equal suggestions. We had a proposal from the College, this is the college that asked for parties to deliver and we had two subsequent proposals after this vote, which was put forward by ad act. So that this proposal didn't go through, they pleaded because the structure is such a yes. Mr. Križanović, believe me, I have no reason not to assume that everyone has equal rights, rights and obligations. Thank you. I'm concluding this point. 44 Ad.20. The appointment of three members to the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement with the same text of the Law on the importance of the public documents of BiH. We've set up a list at the college. That's Mr. Ćeman, Mr. Gligorić and Mr. Lozančić. I'm putting on a plea. Who is it to support this list of three candidates who will agree on the text of the Law on the importance of BiH's public documents? Do you mind? Is he restrained? 3 abstentions, others for. So, most of the votes we're actually with only 3 abstentions we've appointed a three-member committee to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the importance of public documents. Moving to the 21st point, that's Ad.21. Information from the Election Commission on the problems of conducting preparatory actions related to municipal elections held in October 2004 You received the information today at the beginning of the session. You've seen the Electoral Commission as a state Parliament informs us of the difficulties we face. We thank the Electoral Commission. It seems to me that this is a serious approach to the work of the Election Commission, to get the state parliament to know the weaknesses it faces, the obstacles and the problems. And I don't think we should be having some broad discussion today based on this report, but simply having one recommendation to all local communities. So, in BiH municipalities, we cannot order them but we can recommend that in agreement with the Election Commission within a time frame that does not disturb the normal course and normal conduct of local elections, they provide funds in local budgets. So they have municipalities that have provided, they have not yet adopted budgets, and they have adopted an insufficient amount of budget for local elections. So, to send a recommendation to the State Parliament, in which we call on them to do a job in agreement with the Election Commission in order for local elections to take place in a smooth way. Do you agree with this recommendation? Does anyone need to talk? There's Mr. Džedović Ibrahim, here you go. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11729	A problem that concerns not the municipalities, but us, or colleagues who are members of that committee, because the Commission could not work because of their non-received meetings. Well, we should be able to show ourselves in that recommendation as well. I think we'd be complete then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11730	I thank my colleague, Džedović. It seems to me that he is right and I think there can be one sentence that we therefore call on local communities to do everything in agreement with the Election Commission so that the elections will take place normally and uninterruptedly, but also MPs from the State Parliament who have worked together for the Election Commission to improve the Permanent Election Law to work their obligations in a way that we can get to the improved text of the law. Who's in favour of accepting this recommendation? Who's in? Do you mind? Abstained? There's no one here, so thank you. So we unanimously accepted this recommendation. I thank you colleagues. We're going to the 22nd and last item of the agenda, that's Ad.22. The Council of Ministers' report, at the request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on Moratorium, on the freezing of the Free Trade Agreement with Croatia and the Serbia-Montenegro Community until 01.01.2006, I welcome the esteemed Foreign Trade Minister Dok, who has responded here because this is the agenda point from his portfolio. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the debate, because Minister Doko needs to inform MPs about the activities the Council of Ministers has taken. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11731	I would like to thank the gentlemen, the chairman, the honourable MPs, the free trade agreements BiH signed in earlier years with countries with which Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia Montenegro, Macedonia and Turkey have yet to enter into force, and we have several other agreements in the ratification process. These agreements were led, therefore, to ensure that a quality BiH status is achieved in the sense that we have an asymmetric approach to customs on goods coming out of BiH to countries with which we have signed the Free Trade Agreement is zero and that customs charged on goods coming from the countries with which we have signed the Free Trade Agreement are gradually reduced and there is a situation different from the state to the country with which we have signed. What is actually happening is the 1st of January when, on the basis of these agreements with the Republic of Croatia, this asymmetric approach would have crossed into symmetrical, which means that the rates charged to customs and other duties on goods imported from Croatia were also zero, the situation with Serbia-Montenegro, with Slovenia, is 30% of the 1st January asymmetry, with Macedonia is 40%. The problem arose at the time when farmers' associations, primary processors pointed to the negative effects of the application of these free trade agreements. The position of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations was expressed in an analysis that you had the opportunity to believe and read, where we clearly said that really in this segment or Chapter I, when it comes to customs nomenclature from 0 to 24 that we would really have negative effects because here we can individually. With Croatia, we have a situation that they, the Croatian Republic, pays about 530 million marks of incentives for their primary agricultural production and that, therefore, when we become one market, and in this way since the 1st of January we are, our producers would be automatically in an unequal position in order not to be competitive with producers coming from the Republic of Croatia. As for Serbia-Montenegro, the situation is similar. True incentives in Serbia-Montenegro are somewhat lower, but if we look at their advantages in the production of milk, they would also have an irregular position on the market. The Council of Ministers made a decision that was later also subject to the case, so they also discuss in Parliament where we extended the asymmetric approach to Serbia-Montenegro only to some chapters. So we made one very limited decision for 6 head tariffs I can say that they are living animals, meat, milk, meat processing, some products of vegetables and oil. After the decision that was limited and the duration, therefore, not only did it apply to only 6 chapters out of 98, the decision was worth 3 months. And right now, today is the last day when this decision is practically still valid and from tomorrow should be the application of the Free Trade Agreement in full effect. By the EU and the European Commission, we have many times been shown the consistent application of the Free Trade Agreement. First of all, we cannot unilaterally change free trade agreements, we cannot change without prior consultations with the countries, and it has been underlined in some way that this is one of the priorities and conditions that BiH must respect in its process of joining the stabilisation, joining the European community. What's important here is what we can do. So BiH is a country that has continuity. The ministries or ministers that are now, they weren't the ones who signed it, but it doesn't matter at all. We can now not be critical about the period when contracts signed and why it was not taken care now because there were very many 47 objections in this direction, especially chapter and again draws attention to agricultural products and to the practically lost time of 3 years, in which period was not much done in terms of the establishment of the Veterinary Office. Therefore, the adoption of legislation, sublegislative acts, the establishment of institutions, laboratories and everything else necessary to make us appear at all as one country that can register an export facility to the EU. And that is exactly the critical factor, how many buildings a country has to export to the EU because that is what this Free Trade Agreement provides. Whether this could have been predicted 3 years ago or not, I would not have commented again, but the fact that we must respect free trade agreements, that we must seek space under these agreements, so do not seek the space for breach of these agreements and this decision by the Council of Ministers last year on 23 December, was a decision that even in Parliament was the subject of debate in the sense that such a decision by the Council of Ministers should no longer be made. The position of the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Foreign Trade of Economic Relations that we no longer need to extend, means that no application of the agreement is really limited, I can also tell you one more in the percentage amount, only 5% of the products imported from the Republic of Croatia were covered by this decision to exempt from customs duties, and with Serbia-Montenegro, that is only 3.5%. So, although such a limited decision is taken in public and in the European Community as being very unpopular, we are distracted that we simply cannot work anymore. As for bilateral talks with the countries with the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, I was in Zagreb and Belgrade personally and spoke to the resolution ministers. What they want and what they insist on, of course, is the application of the agreement and they say they waited very long, they were patient, they came out in terms of understanding of the situation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that this, in fact, asymmetry helped businesses in this marketing sense, invested in the performances of the Bosnia and Herzegovina market and that it was actually the day they were waiting for that first cut when they could have access to Bosnia and Herzegovina's market. The same key question is raised here – why this symmetry that we have agreed, so in these agreements there is practically one other asymmetry in practice, which is really not natural. It would make sense that if we had asymmetry in our favor that it would also be in that trading balance with those states. But that information is devastating again. It is not a single-measured data that can be changed. This is simply the result of a series of activities or situations in the economy and the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When the ratio of the export coverage between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia was taken before the application of the Free Trade Agreement was around 1:9 so for the export mark we imported 9 marks. After the 1st of January, that ratio was finally reduced by 2003, and now it's 1:3.7. So we halved or increased exports, we reduced imports, but if we look at an absolute amount we increased that trade deficit again. It all depends on how we combine those data. 48 With Serbia-Montenegro, the situation is different. The application of the Free Trade Agreement resulted in an increase in asymmetry. We had a surplus, now we have a deficit. Now the question is how will objectively asymmetry, and now symmetry improve its position in these markets. So when we look at the total balance, that's the data I've just given, but if we just look at this part of the farm again, these are chapters 0 to 24, then the data is even more drastic. The comparison with the Republic of Slovenia is 1:6, but chapters 0 to 24 1:40. We exported only 3 million marks of goods in 2003, and we imported 120 million, and today we still have asymmetry, but I couldn't, much now here spend on the Republic of Slovenia, since in a month they enter the European Union. Then all our relations will be treated in a way that is defined in relation to the European Community. I had the truth yesterday talks with the Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Slovenia and it is an interesting fact that in Slovenia, the resolution of the Free Trade Agreement was precisely the Ministry of Agriculture. And that is not, of course, by chance, because that part is the most sensitive application of the Free Trade Agreement. We are now convinced of this situation. As for Croatia, therefore, the ratio of the exchange of goods in headings 0 to 24 is 1:10. So we re-export the stamp, import the 10. What's the basic reason? It is, on the one hand, a competitive ability, or in this sense a less competitive capacity for our producers in the markets. I think the state is in relation to their competitive capacity on our market, but it must be one big reason and that we are still late with these law-making activities, to establish uniform and certification and laboratory, inspection and all other bodies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. No one's gonna register you in Brussels, and that's exactly what's been accepted as a criterion. So we have to register in Brussels. The last thing to look at is an object. We can have the perfect facility. If we don't have everything else complex, one inspection control system, market surveillance, we can't do anything. And that's what we have to provide our producers in this previous time, a lot of activities related to the adoption of exactly legal, sublegal acts. I'm not saying everything goes well, I'm not saying everything goes well and fast even though there's not much time, because our agricultural producers and processors can't wait long. I think that we should take these measures as soon and as quickly as possible to ensure that they have a practical exit to the European market, and therefore we also have signed free trade agreements on the market, because without it, they do not have export opportunities, no matter how competitive they are and how well they have arranged facilities for export to the EU. Also, the register and the monitoring of imports and the control of animal movements, a very important task in its business, because no food can practically be found on the shelves of EU countries, and we have free trade agreements from the countries in which we have free trade agreements if controls are practically not carried out, as they say from field to table. So we need 49 to have a complete pyramid complex and only in these conditions can we think about registering objects, and then as a consequence and exporting etc. And the rest. As regards the launch of an initiative to declare moratories, apply the Free Trade Agreement, so we must look at the moment we are in, a framework in which we can act, if we too have a firm commitment to go into the process and towards joining the EU and all these activities that we are doing, then we must clearly say that this activity or the declaration of moratorium in the application of the Free Trade Agreement is an activity that goes in the opposite direction. And it certainly will cause a lot of problems if one such decision is made. What we are, I said at first with the EU very clearly we are told that free trade agreements must be applied as a whole and that we must therefore seek within the framework as agreed and agreed on our next activities. We've taken these measures in the ministry. I would like to inform you that in these bilateral talks we have had such an agreement to sign a protocol on cooperation in the veterinary field that would ensure again our manufacturers the possibility, be careful only about the possibility of exports. So far, they've never had a chance. So they couldn't perform in other markets at all. The fact is that we signed a protocol with Serbia-Montenegro that opened the door to a more quality co-operation, but there is a process that we must therefore carry out, we our veterinary inspection of the facilities in Serbia-Montenegro for exports to Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what the neighbouring state will do. With the Republic of Croatia, we were unable to sign an agreement on cooperation in the veterinary field. We didn't have a consistent text. The work is done, Croatia insisted on one type of text that does not solve the essence of the problem. So it is one cooperation that has no measure in its text at all, instruments to solve our situation in the sense that our producers can export to the Republic of Croatia. Afterwards a decision was taken and a quality cooperation was achieved with the entity ministries, and since 1 March, we have practically decided to issue a solution for non-existent veterinary sanitary interference moved from entity ministries to the State Ministry of Foreign Trade or the Office of Veterinary Affairs, and after that, exporters from neighbouring countries could no longer import into Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you probably had a chance to read. The media also said that their producers, exporters, could no longer export from March 1st. With Serbia-Montenegro, the situation has changed somewhere in the middle of the month and that export has started, but it is again a temporary measure until the moment we decide that only those facilities registered for export to the EU can be exported and would practically be one measure that is likely to follow in the coming period. So, the view of the ministry is that free trade prozazums are applied as a whole, that we do not enter any risks, unilateral violation of these agreements, and that, in the context of the signed and agreed, we are looking for space and interest for both producers within Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11732	I thank Mr. Secretary for the information he gave us. We now ladies and gentlemen can conduct a debate according to what we have received, or simply say we have received the information we have received from the Council, from the Honorable Minister, or to conduct the debate. I see Mr. Potočnik has come to the hearing. So, Mr. Potočnik, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11733	I expected Mr. Doka to grow in exports and to grow in imports and to increase the deficit of Bosnia and Herzegovina from which it is clear that this country with such a policy of the Council of Ministers is going to ruin. In 2001, total exports were one billion and eight hundred six million. The following year, a billion eighty-eighty-eighty-seven million, which is 4% more than in 2001, and in 2003 it was almost 25% more exports than it was in 2002. But on the other hand, the imports grew. And that's not just a question of agriculture, of the processing industry, or of livestock, it's a question of the overall economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is not true that the EU cannot and does not reach agreements with countries such as other countries that have entered the EU and where they have given them 5 to 10 years that have entered the EU and where they have given them 5 to 10 years of transitional period. It is not true that we cannot cancel these agreements unless we can agree with neighbouring countries. And another very important thing is that this is how we mutilate all the funds from pension, health, education, etc. What is produced in Bosnia and Herzegovina is being financed from both pension and school and health funds. What's imported, of which the state has 10% and of course there's another 0 of which you'd say imports. Furthermore, it is not true that the EU has allowed us to export at a rate of 0, and we imports from the EU normally at a rate of 10, 11%. It was very reckless to let Slovenia do so much import during the first three months, because they clearly knew that it expires on May 1st and it was quite logical to expect it to push so much goods into Bosnia and Herzegovina. We cannot compare the economy, the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina with Serbia and Montenegro, which have not experienced the destruction of war in equipment and in human resources and in craft resources. This is how we let the country go to waste, if we continue in this way to run politics. And Mr Terzić said on Circle 99 that 40 parliamentarians cannot decide on it. I am convinced that this parliament, with full awareness and awareness and responsibility towards the man of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the governing board of this state representing the owner of this state, and the owners of this state have also demanded that the Council of Ministers, or the management of this state, not lead the state 51 to ruin. I'm talking about economic downturn. And if you do not respect the decision of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, then you do not respect the man of Bosnia and Herzegovina and do not respect at all the oath that you have made to work in the interest of the good man of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11734	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Moranjkić answered the word, so Fatima Leho.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11735	Mr. Minister, I don't know if you remember me speaking at the Plenary Session, I spoke to you personally, and asked if you were behind the fact that in the three months we had in the proposal by the ministry, we would be able to overcome the growing problem of protecting domestic production with a special emphasis on agricultural production. As I recall, I was at the time arguing and here is my great sadness, and if I guessed that as a state, you as a miniature did not manage to do anything by me for three months in this context to create the conditions of domestic production, especially agricultural that it could be worn on this, on this windwind that this country found itself in. It was an objective reason for me, but here I can tell he wasn't on the side of the ministry either. What I'm asking you today and what I want to say is this. You said, and so it says, that in this particular problem there are two different problems, it's a problem of administration and paperwork that has, in a certain way, hampered our manufacturers' exit to the world stage. In this particular case, it is again about agriculture and the European scene. You touched the certificate, touched a few more things. I'm telling you that it's an entire leprechaun who was created as a conspiracy against this man on the ground of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of what entity he's in, that he can very hard stand fighting administration and bureaucracy, because I've already asked such a question MPly how to rob someone who wants to work, especially in this area by this particular state. No one has ever answered that question, unfortunately here's a year and it turns out it's a very important segment that makes it impossible for our man to do that part of the job. And another whole problem that needs to be solved is that they're unhappy or happy, that you want benefits or the role of the state to help in a certain way help to be competitive with this environment that has today found a gig in this country called Bosnia and Herzegovina. With the funds that you said, which I and I also think most of these MPs know that we, or 15 million for the benefits in the last year compared to 530, that's incomparable plus what Bog gave to those that previous structure of the economic and agricultural activity in this country gave priority to that environment, we've been put in a position, this country and these people that they can't handle. 52 I ask you, and I ask you, will Parliament tomorrow, and they are announced tomorrow on April 1st, the closing of borders, how are we going to get out in front of these people, are we going to go out after the police to beat them, with the army to block them, or is someone going to come out with arguments? And I don't think with these arguments you have room to go out there, because there will be an immediate question – and what have you gentlemen been waiting for, why haven't you solved those certificates, why haven't you done this, who's been bothering whom? I don't think this parliament is a waste of time. I do. Maybe I'm wrong. I know everything that came from that area in front of this parliament, that this Parliament has put very quickly in the legislative register and that...in life. It means that someone was either not able to wait, or knowingly blocked life on these tracks. So I'm telling you, as far as farmers are concerned, how long I'm gonna be in Oresa tomorrow as Parliamentarian of this country and I'm gonna support these people and say that someone in this country is standing who doesn't care if you gentlemen stop and this country gets on these feet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11736	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Fatima Leho.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11737	The chairman, MPs at the Plenary session of both homes that we had recently discussed here, discussed the medium-term development strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the section relating to agriculture on page 176, it writes this way – adopt an adequate policy to protect and stimulate domestic agricultural production and strengthen instruments for its application. Under 2. For a period of 2 years, delay the application of part of the free trade agreement with Serbia-Montenegro and Croatia on the entry into force of duty-free imports for those agricultural products that are of strategic importance for the development of this sector in BiH. If the Council of Ministers wrote to us in the accompanying act that this was adopted by this strategy and this text is an integral part of that strategy, I am now wondering, and both homes are in a certain way and supported by this strategy, now I can only ask the Minister how does his discussion differ from what is said to be delayed for 2 years? If that's what the Council of Ministers adopted at the session and sent us to support it. These two don't agree. Here it writes literally the Minister, in the section relating to agriculture under 4.6 title – Ensure an adequate external trade regime to stimulate domestic agricultural production. In the context of this, one, two, three, four, five is needed. Six. The 2nd is this. I understood that we would now have two years when we talked about the strategy, I understood that we would have two years to give a certain 53 impulses to our agricultural production to overcome what is tomorrow waiting for us at the border. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11738	I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, if there's anyone else that you can finally give. Okay. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Are you done, Mrs. Leho?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11739	I did. That's my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11740	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, regarding the PRSP's strategy, it is true that the strategy states that Bosnia and Herzegovina should seek to postpone the application of the Free Trade Agreement with neighbouring countries, but we also asked for it in bilateral talks, but one such decision requires both goodwill and other sides. We can't do this unilaterally. So we also tried in talks with representatives of both Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, asking for a delay in the implementation of the agreement by 2 years. However, we have not received understanding. So on the opposite sides, or partnerly, whatever we say, that decision cannot be changed that way. The only instrument we can use is an instrument to log out an agreement or part of an agreement six months earlier. It means checking out as a whole or in Chapter 1. But we have to log it out so it's defined and precise by the agreements six months earlier. That's what we can do unilaterally. For such intentions as are included in the PRSP strategy, which is true that it was an attempt and in order for Bosnia and Herzegovina to suit it, we need both real will and other countries. They had no understanding of our situation and did not agree to delay the application of the agreement for two years. They just didn't say yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11741	I thank the Honorable Minister. Mrs. Leho, you're looking for a replica, including Mr. Potočnik, hopefully a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11742	I'm not happy with the answer. I'm interested when they asked for it, either after the Plenary Session or before. If they did before, then they should have told us here when they discussed the strategy as a document that will be a guide in medium-term development. If they did it later, they did it late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11743	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers if Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro do not understand, I do not see why we would have an understanding for them. And I don't see any reason to charge, so let me put it this way in a simple dictionary of their pockets instead of their own. Because watch out for something, if you want to make a deal, if they have no understanding, what if we had to have an understanding of them? Our funds are being destroyed. What are we going to do? And look at the balance sheet, and you'll see how our exports started to grow and how exports to the EU grow, we squeeze, because we can reduce the deficit in two ways exclusively. One is the incentive of money for that we don't have enough and the other is by reducing imports. So we'll eat if you want homemade apples instead of import apples. Nothing's weaker. I mean, there's no excuse for it if we offer someone to understand us and they won't understand us. What would we understand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-31-0.u11744	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have anyone else to report for the discussion? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. You see, I thank the minister who came, gave the information, the one the minister can give, so at this point in time, when we want some more serious, let's take it more seriously, then those who seek the agenda points must prepare them well so that we can have good conclusions. But here was the point of the agenda – information and information as MPs adopted by the minister received. I thank you ladies and gentlemen once again and conclude this item of the agenda. I thank Mr. Dok. I'm closing this session. The next session will be led by the first deputy chairman, then chaired by Martin Raguž. I thank you all for helping me for these eight months to make good laws and conclusions. I'm sorry if I once deliberately provoked someone and said what he didn't mean, but it wasn't trendy, it wasn't intentional. You're my friends. Cheers. Leave the cards there and the service will pick them up, run them by number, and each time half an hour before you'll be in charge of the cards. Cheers. The session was finished at 2:30.
