ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11464	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 31st session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Once again, I apologize for this half-hour delay, and the reason we have been waiting for the consolidated text of the agenda that has been agreed by the enlarged College of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen at the session were invited by our regular guests and representatives of international and non-governmental organisations who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the House. I warmly welcome everyone who responded to this session. According to a report by the Service at today's session, 34 MPs, 23 from the Federation, 11 from Republika Srpska. His absence was justified by Felić Hazim's official trip, Nakaš Abdulah, I have his suggestion that he will arrive during the session, Raguž Martin is on the official road, Đedović Ibrahim is on the official road, Jahić Elmir on the official road, Jusufović Munib, he has health problems and announced that he will not attend this session. The others did not justify their absence. So I figure Dom has a quorum that works hard to decide. You've reached ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament of the motion agenda for the 31st session. Before we discuss the agenda proposal, I have one previous question. It is about the motion for a resolution submitted by MP Nenad Mišić at the 30th session. If you remember, I submitted to the 30th session in the opening notes on the agenda proposal that MEP Nenad Mišić submitted a motion for a resolution proposing to put a temporary moratorium on Article 121. Rules of Procedure. However, the House did not then declare the fate of the proposed resolution. I now propose that the House declare itself on the proposal for a conclusion that the motion for a resolution goes to a preliminary examination of the committee in charge. Please make a statement. 2 Who is it, so there is another resolution, but these are the previous questions? Who's against it? Abstained? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal that the resolution submitted by MP Mr. Mišić goes to the committee of directors. Ambassador Sead Avdić also submitted a motion for a resolution on the recognition of the status and right of national minorities of former SFRY citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. The extended college also took the view that the motion for a resolution was previously discussed in the competent commission. Who's to classify, accept this conclusion from the Expansive College? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously accepted the Proscier College's proposal that the resolution submitted by MP Dr. Sead Avdić go to the committee in charge of the debate first in the competent commission. We are now going to discuss the agenda proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, you have received the draft agenda that the College has delivered to you for today's session. I want to tell you that the extended college in this morning's meeting has added three new points to the agenda. Confirming the appointment of the defence minister and two deputy defence ministers in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this would be the second item of the agenda, the third item of the agenda is the appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes for the achievement of an agreement on the same text (a) of the Law Intelligence to the Security Agent of BiH, (b) the Law on the application and protection of the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina and under (c) the Law on Infringements of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina and also under the point, under the order of the 6th new item of the agenda, that is - the request of MP Azra Hadžiahmetović to discuss the draft law amending the BiH Customs Tariff Act, following an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. So, ladies and gentlemen, compared to what you've got as a possible agenda, these are three new agenda points that are taken into college by consensus. I'd like to inform you that there have been more proposals for the new agenda points, unfortunately there has been no consensus in the extended college and they have not been on the agenda list. 3 I would also like to tell you that we have decided at the Extended College that until the next session of the Extended College MPs if they have useful suggestions for the Work Programme of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for this year to deliver to the Secretary of the House so that they can find their place in this final Pre-accession Programme of the Representative Council. So I feel the need to inform you of this conclusion of the enlarged college. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a debate on the agenda for the 31st session. Who's answering for a word? Filip Andrić, then Gligorić, Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11465	Madam Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I propose that we include the 16th item of the agenda as a conclusion on the extension of the investigation committee's report to determine the circumstances of Mr Ante Jelavić's arrest, Miroslav Prce and Miroslav Rupčić's arrest. The reason for this delay is that we remember agreeing to work together on the committee of the House of Peoples and of our home. There's been a replacement of a member of the House of People's Commission, which is one of the reasons, and the main reason is that we have a delay in delivering information from the institutions we've been looking for. So I'm hoping for the next 30 days that we'll be able to get all this information and we'll be able to make a quality report in accordance with Home's conclusion. Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11466	I thank my colleague Andrić. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11467	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen and guests, I suggest we put the agenda of the Commission on the line of inquiry, so to speak. the case of a "state strike" at point, under regular number 6, after the proposed draft legislation has been completed and when we start with reports to start with the first point of the Commission because MPs have received a report from the Commission on time. They had plenty of time to get acquainted with this report, because we already had one session on the subject, because it was a fully-known event and I don't see any reason why MPs, after being familiar with this topic, would not accept that the Commission had finished its work by consensus and thus delivered the College for consideration, or a proposal to be placed on the agenda. Given that there was no consensus on this item of the agenda in the enlarged College, I would like to say, as chairman of the committee, also because of our public that the Commission has done its job, that we have reached conclusions on this case, which the public has long followed, and I believe that we have obtained the conditions that we are considering today a report from the Commission on the examination of the so-called ‘examination’. "State case." 4 I didn’t get on the table in the meantime, I don’t know if other colleagues are able to propose the agenda in writing. It may be a technical failure, but we have to do it like this orally then that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11468	I thank Dr. Gligorić. I'd like to ask you for a note to define the agenda point. If you don't mind, it's not a problem, although it may be a small failure for you to have a table, but here I'd like to ask you. Mr. Potočnik Mladen came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11469	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I propose the next item of the agenda -- a request from the Council of Ministers to reach an agreement with Croatia and the Serbia-Montenegro Community on a moratorium for the Free Trade Agreement by 1.1.2006, i.e. until the time when Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy will be in a level playing field towards these two economies.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11470	I thank my fellow Potočnik. I'd also beg in writing. Who's next to the word? Dr. Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11471	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry that it's back on the agenda now, but this really doesn't make sense that no one from the Council of Ministers is sitting down, because when we propose something for the agenda, I have a proposal that would be necessary for someone to sit here and be able to react is that okay, isn't it, that they immediately respond that we don't go further in the process? But whatever it is, we're gonna figure out a way to let them know. On Friday, an EU representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina published in a very dramatic way and informed the Bosnian Herzegovina public that the EU is suspending the reform project on public procurement in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is said that only this press conference costs us at this point to stop somewhere around 5 million marks of direct assistance. Unfortunately, this is the least damage it seems, as stopping this project of public procurement in Bosnia and Herzegovina is dragging a whole series of other problems behind it. In order to remind you, we adopted a work programme and activities here a few months ago to meet the conditions for entry into the next phase of European integration for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and in this document that we adopted and which we received from Brussels stands, I quote that Bosnia and Herzegovina should gradually bring its legislation on public procurement with the EU. 5 In other words, the conditions for continuing co-operation are the adoption of such a legal framework. We made a commitment every 3 months that at the end of the third month or sixth we would have information about how long that programme of adoption and willingness to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement arrived. Also bringing this legislative framework into line with existing countries, practically the EU means that Bosnia and Herzegovina would be able to develop more successful trade relations in the region. This also means that without the adoption of this law as we have adopted here in Parliament, not only this 2.5m euro is being suspended now, but the whole EU assistance project for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I should point out, has been suspended since '91. to this day invested around EUR 2.5 billion here. To conclude, I would like to ask for one information to be included today and that even though the chairman of the Council of Ministers is here to give us information on the reform of the public procurement system with an activity plan for the adoption of the Public Procurement Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is the official name of the agenda and a little polite chairmanship, and that is because this stems from the obligations relating to the Stabilisation and Association Treaty that we have unanimously accepted here. In addition to this information, I would ask the chairman to adopt some sort of working conclusion that in time, we should draw up a conclusion to the Council of Ministers that, in accordance with our earlier conclusion for the session that is next to this quarter, we should prepare full information on how long we have arrived with the fulfillment of what has been asked of us as Parliament to adopt whether there is a problem and what we should do. So here I'm giving you a suggestion point. This conclusion, I did not suggest, by the chairman, that he is something that we can adopt, or simply refer as a request to the Council of Ministers to remind them of the conclusions they already have.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11472	Okay. All right, all right. Thank you. Who's next to the word? Sead Palavrić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11473	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am truly sorry that, every time we agree to keep the extended college and agree that we will not extend the agenda to spend this much time determining the agenda. I would like to make my comment on Mr Gligorić's proposal to consider today the Commission's report on so-called. "The coup." If this commission took four months to analyse the situation to make up this report, I think we deserve the right of at least 10 days to read the report and analyze it so that we can get to the bottom of it. I am afraid that the recommendations and conclusions still contain findings that are unspecified or may be far-reaching in a negative context and I am asking that we do not include this item of the agenda today, and may this be the obligation immediately at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11474	I thank my colleague, Seada Palavrić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going over the plea. We have a request here for a change of agenda. We have requests for new agenda points. We have demands with only two active conclusions. Let's talk about the order in which the MPs responded. The first is Mr. Filip Andrić. He suggests a conclusion – the deadline for submitting an investigative committee's report to determine the circumstances of Mr Jelavić's arrest, prcati and Rupčič's 30-day stay for the delay in delivering information by the competent institutions and replacing members of the People's House of Investigation, I read as it says, therefore, the Parlametary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in favor of supporting this conclusion? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So out of 33, the vote was 29, against none, it was abstention 4.. I konstatovati this conclusion accepted. We have the majority, we have the entity majority. There's no need to vote on entities. We therefore have Mr Tihomir Gligorić's proposal to include the Commission's report on the survey, so to speak. "State impact." It suggests that we consider the report as the sixth item of the agenda. Who's up for it? Who's against it? Abstained? So of the 33 present 17 was for, against 9, abstention 6. We're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? - 10 Who's from Republika Srpska for? Ten from the Federation for, 6 from Republika Srpska for. So I figure this is going to be the sixth point of the agenda. We're moving on to Mr. Mladen Potočnik's request. He says -- a request to the Ministerial Council to reach an agreement with the Croatian community by 30.3.2004, i.e. with Croatia and the Serbia-Montenegro Community on a moratorium to the 7th Free Trade Agreement by 1.1.2006, i.e. until the time when BiH's economy will be in an equal competitive position towards these two states. Who's to adopt this conclusion and refer to the Council of Ministers? Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So of the 33 present for 25, against the 6, abstention 2. Who's from the Federation for? From Republika Srpska who's in favour? Thank you. So from the Federation for 18, from Republika Srpska 6 in Republika Srpska, this conclusion by Mr Mladen Potočnik was accepted. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to the final proposal. That's the conclusion of Mr. Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija says the Council of Ministers is asked to provide information on the reform of the public procurement system with a plan for the adoption of the Public Procurement Act for Bosnia and Herzegovina, stemmed from obligations related to the Stabilisation and Association Treaty. Who's in favour of accepting this proposal, dr. Lagums? Who's against it? Abstained? So of 33 present, 26 versus 4, abstention 3. Let's go, who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? So 21 from the Federation for, from Republika Srpska 5. So this conclusion has been accepted, Dr. Lagums. And if I understand correctly, the next conclusion would be to ask the Council of Ministers for a report on Dr. Lagumcije, which is the Parliamentary Assembly's representative council – therefore, the realization of all the conclusions so far, if I understand correctly. Yeah, yeah. To provide us with a report on what's going on with the realization of these conclusions. How about that? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? There isn't. I find it with one vote abstention, the rest of me to conclude that we unanimously accepted this conclusion that we are asking the Council of Ministers for information on the implementation of the Council of Representatives' Council of Parliamentary Assembly's conclusions concerning the activities of the Council of Ministers. I regret that there is no Council of Ministers in the majority today. We've been leading it so far, remember the debate that we don't schedule a session on Thursdays when they have a session. Here today, 8 Mondays probably have some obligations that have prevented them from attending the Council of Representatives in greater numbers today. Ladies and gentlemen, that ended the debate and adopted the agenda. I'll read the agenda. So the adopted agenda is as follows: 1. Journal of the 30th Session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Confirmation of the appointment of the Minister of Disposal and two Deputy Defence Ministers at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 3. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the same text under (a) the Law on the Security Intelligence Agency of BiH, (b) the Law on Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) the Law on Violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina 4. Parliament Questions and Answers, 5. A request from the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Labour in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Mr Tihomir Gligorić's proposal, which we adopted, which is 6. The Commission’s report on the examination of the so-called ‘examination’. "State impact" seven. Request by Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105, 8. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament's Seade Palavrić that the committee responsible draws up a new report on the draft law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with Article 95.3, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, Rules of Procedure of the House, 9. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for Parliament's conclusion that the committee in charge draws up a new Report on the Proposal for a Law establishing an independent transmission system operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with Article 93(3). Home Rules of Procedure, 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the need to draw up the Code of Single Nomotechnical Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 15. Interim Report of the Commission responsible for determining the spending of donor funds and 9 16. Giving consent to ratification of the Sixth Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11475	Andric's proposal to extend the deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11476	But that's the conclusion we adopted, there's no agenda point. So thank you, we have a 16-point agenda. We're moving to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 30th session of the House of Representatives. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. Let's go. Who's to accept the minutes of the 30th session? I'd beg my colleague didn't have a chance. Here you go. Mr. Zorić. We've joined the vote, but here's to hear the remarks on the record. I'm sorry. No problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11477	I apologize, I talked to a colleague, so I didn't pay attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11478	I ask my colleagues not to tell my dear friend.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11479	I saw the record from last 30th session and it says here that the absent ones were Vinko Zorić and Zoran Spasojević. I was justifiably absent. I went out to say this because I was already public and I told my colleagues that I had already had 21 operations in the last year and a half, but still the Liberation called me that I wasn't, it seems to me to be at 20% of the sessions or at that point at four sessions, and they haven't said justifiable even though so far it keeps saying that I was justly absent. So on two or three occasions, I contacted Mr. Špirić, the chairman of this house, that I would not be able to attend the session because I would be in the hospital at that time and here I would like it to be corrected in the record. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11480	I thank my colleague Zorić. I ask that it really be rectified because my colleague Zorić regularly announces his absence. I want for health reasons not to be often away from being all right. I hope you want it the same way. So I ask that this remark be respected by Mr Zorić, if no one has any more objections. There is, there is everything announced in the agenda announcement. So I suggest we adopt the agenda with this correction. It's a record, actually. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. We've adopted a unanimous record from the 30th session of the House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the second item of the agenda, I would like just a few things, especially to welcome the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and the honourable ministers who have just arrived to attend this session. The second point should be, i.e. we adopted a confirmation of the appointment of defence ministers and two deputy defence ministers at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. sobzir the OHR and international institutions check came directly ahead of this session, I do not see here the present minister and deputy minister, so I ask if there is, or if it will arrive at the time, I appreciate that this was the speed that perhaps this point, with the natural mood of the MPs of this house, might be moved for later or we can end it now, because the oath is foreseen. Or let's finish now. It would be logical for us to appoint ministers and deputies with their presence and at the same time take an oath. If you'd appreciate it, we'd better make the appointment now and take the oath when they get here. I think we better do it together. Mr. Chairman, go ahead. No problem. And if they're here, they're here. Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to the second item of the agenda, which is how we adopted Ad. 2. Confirmation of the appointment of the Minister of Defence and two deputy defence ministers at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina I regret that my colleagues are not there, but may take the oath after the appointment, so either if they arrive during this session or at the next session. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for the second item of the agenda? 11 Is there? Mr Momčilo Novaković, then Tihomir Gligorić. kolega Novaković, may I ask you, as the chairman of Terzić wants to read the decision and comment. It makes sense. Here you go. I asked if there was anyone from the Council of Ministers, but.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11481	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have no comment, but I think it is my turn to read the Decision appointing, so on the basis of Article 5(4). Constitution 4. Bosnia and Herzegovina and Articles 5 and 10. The law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been decided on the appointment of Ministers and Deputy Defence Ministers. I appointed Mr. Nikola Radovanović, a master of international relations and diplomacy from Banja Luka, as well as Deputy Ms. Marina Pendeš, a graduate electrical engineer from Knights and Mr. Enes Bećirbašić, a master of technical sciences from Sarajevo. For this decision, I received the consent of the Office of the High Representative. A complete procedure has been implemented, and I just want to say that the Office of the High Representative has made a very big effort to shorten the procedure for the verification, and we didn't know until a moment ago whether this was going to work, given that both the checks and the consent from The Hague were due. That's why we didn't know if today would be a confirmation so the minister and the deputy, future minister and deputy, are not there. We have one deputy, so I'd like to ask them to take an oath at the next session or until the end of this session. Therefore, I ask you to confirm, in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the appointment of ministers and deputy defence ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11482	I thank the chairman, Mr. Terzić. Mr. Novaković Momčilo picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11483	Gentlemen of the chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers and Chairman of the Council of Ministers, dear colleagues, I would only have one question for the promoter. These days, various speculations have emerged in the press as to whether all candidates who have appeared meet the conditions laid down by law or not. Well, among other things, there was information, some information that Mr.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11484	Not three years outside of military, active military service. Therefore, I would ask that it be clarified whether it is true or not, or whether all candidates fulfil that part of the conditions set out in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Defence Act. 12 I have here a single document signed by Mr. Beriz Belkić in 3.4.2002 as chairman of the presidency in which he asked General Džon Silvester to produce in the rank of Brigadier General Mr.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11485	I thank my colleague Novaković. Mr Gligorić answered the word. I suggest we discuss it so we can get an explanation later.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11486	Mr. Chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to call on the Rules of Procedure on our work, Article 115, paragraphs 3, 2 and 3, in which the Council of Ministers is asked to speak on his appointment, as it writes here in the political programme. Given that you have now come out and said if you refer to point 3 for your cabinet, which in this case is, in that case you also need to make an addition and that aside from what you said about making a decision and although some other data are missing, go back practically to your program to explain, possibly with the addition of the cabinet, how you think you're leading the Council of Ministers, this ministry and whether it fits into that program, because what you were saying you didn't actually define with such precision as you should right now. I hope that I share my opinion and other MPs, and I would like to hear that too -- how you think the Council of Ministers is now working in an extended composition, -- which are priorities and jobs that are meant to end what you as chairman should say, and that is of course expected of you both in this Parliament and in our public. I agree with Mr. Novaković on this question on this question which he asked that he should also give a concrete answer, and I think it was good that you were all in some relationship with future meaning minister and deputy, except for one present, to still be present so that we could finish the job because so far was such a practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11487	I thank Dr. Gligorić. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11488	Mr. Špirić Nikola. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11489	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I think that and that is why I have agreed today to make this point a part of the agenda. I think the situation in the defence ministry is serious, I think we adopted the Defence Act and I think it is high time Bosnia and Herzegovina came to the defence minister and his deputies in order to further speed up the work on the defence system's ref. in Bosnia and Herzegovina. He expects these people to do a lot of serious work from the Ministry Regulation, which is one of the conditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina's admission to peace to other things that are very serious. It seems to me that they are representatives of the international community and the United States is ready to assist defence reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina through various types of projects. They say that publicly, and in order to be able to help reform the defence system and help the new defence ministry, then we must first establish that ministry. I'm happy that it came out of Jalov's menacing, and I'm happy that today we have a candidate who's been through, at least what we know publicly all kinds of checks so there's no interference with his appointment. What I'm trying to say is that I wish that we parlametarians in this House had written checks on candidates who stayed in the archives so that there might not be any different questions afterwards. Unfortunately, we don't have that written part, so I'm asking the chairman if there's any written confirmation about this check or if there is, so there is, and that's, that's a good thing, so there's no possibility that there's any speculation afterwards. It is my pleasure to say that Mr Radovanović, at least according to what I can read from this and what I know about man, a man who can carry on his shoulders with the help of the Council of Ministers and others who wish well to this country that he can carry a reform of the defence system in reforming Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces or the armed forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that with the help of everyone he can carry this reform and I think you will need a lot of help both Parliament and others in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is why I will support his appointment as defence minister. The question of Mr. Momčilo Novaković whether all appointments are in accordance with the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina also in place, I would like to get that answer whether all candidates, whether all candidates are therefore proposed and whether they meet the legal standards, is particularly his question to whether Mr. Bećirbašić is three years old in civil service, which is one of the conditions of the law. But it doesn't change things, so today we have to confirm the minister. We should also confirm his deputies if they meet the conditions, but unless someone meets the conditions, it doesn't mean that the process should stop. It is necessary to appoint and confirm those who meet the conditions. If everyone meets the requirements, I'm here to appoint today, because it's about important, important appointments. 14 It seems to me that by naming the day the minister and his deputies would send a strong message to those in the world who want to help us with the defence reform to send a message that we have completed a job where, in my assessment, we have been standing unnecessarily and in this sense, I am asking you today to create a mood for this job to be successfully completed and thus send a message that we are serious about reforming the defence in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we are creating conditions for a more stable life and that we have a modern defence ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina that will ensure that we reintegration into the global security system that is on stage today. In that sense, I say I will be happy to support the future minister, and also the deputies, of course, if their appointment is in accordance with the law. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Chairman, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11490	Well, here's to answer the question of consent first. I have received from the High Representative individually for each proposed candidate's consent and I must tell you that, in agreement with Mr Bećirbašić, it is necessary to check that it is fulfilled, that all legal assumptions are met so that we do not come into the situation that, like the Presidency for the Director of the DGS, we are setting up a man who has not fulfilled all the legal powers. So Mr Bećirbašić has fulfilled his legal powers because since 2000 in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency as a consultant for military matters and this procedure that Mr Novaković rightly claimed existed, it has not ended up precisely because Mr Bećirbašić was in civil service and could not implement the procedure until the end and he never received the act, and the procedure was initiated by some automation. When it comes to the programme and when it comes to what I as chairman and the Council of Ministers intend to do on the matter of now new defence powers that the Council of Ministers has not had, since we know that they were solely in the responsibility of the Presidency, I must say that there are no dilemmas about it and all that you have adopted as a package of reform laws regarding defence reform and our path to a peace partnership from letters to letters is our problem. So there is that blue book if you remember Mr. Gligorić, which is a product of work within this commission and which bears the title – The way of Bosnia and Herzegovina in partnership for peace. So every letter in the current book is our work programme, and as for how the Council of Ministers will function with the now amended number of ministries and ministers, I must make it clear to you that, I have no reservation that the Council of Ministers in the extended composition will function as this so far, I really don't have any reservations about whether there are any more people than there are under the Constitution or not. It is certain that we are in one process that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to lead to a country knocking on the door of the EU and that, as we said in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act, certain enlargements to the Council of Ministers will be carried out when conditions are obtained. 15 I, as chairman, can safely argue that if they are confirmed today by both the Minister and their deputies, his deputies will continue with the atmosphere of teamwork that we have in the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11491	I thank my fellow chairman, Mr. Terzić. I'd like to ask ladies and gentlemen, if no one is answering any more for the discussion, I'd be begging, and I've asked that before to have written checks for the candidates. So if the chairman got them, I think it would make sense that the MPs have them on the benches and in that sense I'm looking for a half-hour break to get, a half-hour break to get written material. We'll make a statement. You don't have to rush. So I'm asking you to take a half-hour break to get written checks and make a statement about ministers and deputies. Thank you very much. I suggest we get back to work. [[PAUZA]] I don't know, we just got these checks from the Office of the High Representative. I assume you've all been able to read it. Is there a need for a word after this reading? There's no one here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11492	President Nikola Špirić is asking for a word. There's a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11493	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs, distinguished guests, I just want to tell you that this is an important moment and I think we're going to get the name of the minister and his deputies today. But what I want to draw attention to in this check, so it is not a slow vote today, but this dilemma that the Office of the High Representative is referring to, it would not be good to open up afterwards. That is why I think it is very important today that the chairman of the Council of Ministers here therefore says whether, since this information and he received this information an hour ago, where it is said, I appeal to you to check the benefits of Mr Bečribašić, as a candidate for this post, that is, the condition defined by the State Defence Act, which stipulates that Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister and his deputies must be persons who have not been in active military service for at least 3 years. So, I'm ready today to vote for the minister and his deputies, but I don't want anyone to come to the information in five or ten days and say he's not 3 years old. So we 16 are a serious state parliament and we need to have serious checks. And that's why I think it's very good that our institutions that the state already has, it's a huge shortage, it's a huge disadvantage that we have to check the Office of the High Representative without having to check the institutions that we have. So, it would be good to have that, too, but since I'm in the grip of time, I'm taking this job today, but I'm asking you to do what I ask, so I'm also going to support the name of the minister and his deputies, but this dilemma would be good for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to open up, so it ends up in writing. I'll do it for the next session. Just so the state parliament didn't do a job he didn't have information for. And that's why I asked, of course, that we have written checks and this is good, and I think that this is the way to do it in the future, that we have to check that it wouldn't be a matter of any speculation afterwards. So I would beg if the chairman could now give an answer, and if he has any dilemma, then it would be good to finish the appointments for which there is no dilemma. But if it opens up any further discussions, I have no intention of asking for it, but to vote in the package. But I mean, if a diet opens up, and it turns out to be true, it's not good for people who are candidates, so they're not at all controversial, unless the general terms of the Defense Act can be a matter of question. So, I'd only ask those dilemmas to move away, and everything else I'm willing to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11494	Look, I've got information that says that Mr.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11495	has 3 years of civilian service. I would therefore ask the MPs to vote in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11496	I thank the chairman. No one needs to answer any more? There isn't. So we're closing the debate. You heard the chairman's statement that everything is in accordance with the Defense Act, which is very important. Who is it for, ladies and gentlemen, I ask, shall we vote in the package? We will. So in the package. Who can confirm today the appointment of Defence Minister Nikola Radovanović, Mr Bećirbašić and Mrs Pendeš Marina? Who's up for it? Who's against it? Abstained? So of the 33 present, from 33 to 25, versus 2, were abstentioned 6. We're going entityically. Who's from the Federation for? So 18 from the Federation for, 7 from Republika Srpska for. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand we've chosen the Secretary of Defense and his deputies. So I'm happy to find out. 17 I call upon the minister and the deputy who are there to take an oath, and for Mrs. Pendeš we will do so at the next session. You will repeat after me the text. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11498	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11499	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11500	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11501	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11502	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11503	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11504	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11505	I wish you good luck on responsible business. Ladies and gentlemen, we are passing, by this act, by selecting ministers and deputies, by taking a solemn oath, we have completed the second item of the agenda. I want to congratulate the minister and the deputies and I want a lot of success in the responsible work that awaits them. 18 It seems to me that in this way we have sent a good message to those who want to help Bosnia and Herzegovina and who want to participate in the construction of the modern defence ministry. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's Ad. 3. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the same text under a) Act on the Security Intelligence Agency of BiH, the Extended College of Ladies and Gentlemen proposed to the Commission of Mr Mirsad Ćeman, pardon, Mr Momčilo Novaković and Mr Ivo Mir Jović. Under b) 3 members should be appointed for the alignment of the text (b) of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Tihomir Gligorić, Mr Vinko Zorić and Mr Beriz Belkić. And under c) Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law on Violations was proposed by the extended College to Hazim Felić, Mr Nikola Kragulj and Mrs Sopta. Any other suggestions? I'm opening a debate. Any other suggestions? If he doesn't, I'm closing the argument. Let's make a statement. Who is it to support therefore the proposal of members for the Commission concerning the Security Intelligence Agency Act and the Law on the application of the protection of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Law on Violations in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we unanimously adopted a proposal from the Extended College regarding the selection of members of the Commission. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Ad. 4. Parliament issues, Dama and gentlemen, some MPs have received an answer to parliamentary questions. Is there a need to comment on them? And some still don't, it's an established practice. I'm sorry for what I can do. 19 Who's picking up? Mr. Dr. Živković, then Moranjkić, then Ćeman did.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11506	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, obviously that the Council of Ministers has done its job for today and that these issues have no purpose, but until something changes in Parliament about it, we will continue to strive for it to have its function. I mean, the answer I got if it wasn't sad, maybe you'd be funny. I asked a question about the incidents that took place in the Maglai municipality, the Bocinj village last year, and I got the answer that someone had cursed someone, that they had stolen wood, that they were dumping garbage, etc. etc. in which, to make cynicism an even greater Serbian against it, it has been filed a misappropriation for swearing on a national basis. I didn't ask this question for nothing, but based on the article in the paper, which I brought down here where the former mayor of Maglai says, I quote, that the incidents that have been happening for the past 30 days have 8 incidents that prevent people from returning to the area and have a sign of terrorist activities. If the former mayor says so, I think this kind of response from the competent institutions is more than cynical. And if you let me comment on them to make it look like a very popular game in Bosnia and Herzegovina played by national teams, it concerns hiding and hideouts. Some hide UN war crimes indictees, others murmur over the obvious fact that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, shelter has found a number of suspects who are more or less connected to organisations they call terrorist organisations in the international community. And when I went out for a pay phone, if you will allow me, and as far as my question is concerned, it is addressed to the Council of Ministers: - What are the competent institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina intending to do in the next period, and it is before the Olympic Games in Greece, and regarding the detection of individuals and groups that have ties to terrorist organisations and preventing them from turning Bosnia and Herzegovina into a base for terrorist activities in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11507	I thank Dr. Živković. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11508	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, MPs, I have received an answer and I am partly only satisfied with that answer in that part of which is practically technical, or data of a technical nature which should only be the accompanying side of my question. 20 I am not satisfied, especially with the feeling that the one who answered me sees the essence of the problem and he just pulls it up and makes one kind of call that this problem that I've potentiated is in place. That's why I'm going to comment. He says that activities are currently being carried out to obtain loans for the purchase of wagons of these and those, however, simply the one who responded to me did not want to say who these funds were asked to do when these funds were expected and when they would be operational whenever they were realised. The particular issue that is highlighted in my question is the appearance of unfair competition and the one who answers me is potential for that question, but even in a joke he did not find it appropriate to write between whom this unfair competition is in the case of railways and how they need them and who needs to solve them so that they are not disputed to end the problem practically. He further says they need to pass appropriate system laws. Why are they not brought in, unless they are brought in who is holding them back, and who should bring them in? That was all in one sentence you could say. So the dilemma was left simply open, as well as saying that the railway should be supported by the sector. He hasn't said who should give that support and why he hasn't given it here in a few years since he stopped. It says – to reconstruct the railway sector in accordance with... Is it being carried out and has someone started that reconstruction and when will it be executed? That was exactly my question. Finally, it says – continue the privatisation process. It is not said here that neither what is privatised nor what is not the privatisation plan in Bosnia and Herzegovina's railway sector. So there's been a lot of technical data ahead, but there's more of a dilemma being said, the problems that can't be seen, not the end, not the beginning, not the bearers of the business in solving these problems, and that was the purpose of my answer, so I suggest that the one who answered this question still complements this answer, because then he doesn't have what the point is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11509	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. The word is Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11510	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have received an answer to the question and can essentially say that I am satisfied with the answer, but I do have one remark, namely I am in a particular case on the answer to the question of an alternative airport for Sarajevo Airport, but in my reply, I did say that this is about the events at Sarajevo airport due to the cancellation of flights due to fog, etc., but the question actually concerns all airports in Bosnia and Herzegovina where the alternative landing should be resolved, etc. etc. 21 And in that sense only as a remark, and regarding the answers and I will remind myself that I am still on two three issues, there may be more which I have asked in fact on two three questions I have received no answer, and very important questions are from statistics, namely the damage that has been done, whether it is property or any other damage to the demands of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina from both entities that commit, i.e. falls on the burden of the budget both entity, so state and so on. I did not get the information, or answers to those questions as well as perhaps a year ago, to answer the question - what about the property that was taken from Bosnia and Herzegovina during the period of war, or aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina not only left, or taken from the territory of one or another entity, but was taken from Bosnia and Herzegovina through its citizens, so that they cannot be used at all by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I didn't get an answer to that, and in this economic and other situation where we are probably going to return that property, the facilities, etc. and how to help solve, among other things, the problem of unemployment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Chairman, this comment has been on the issues so far. Can I set up a new one now or shall we do it later?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11511	We'd better finish our comments later if there's more. I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Irina Đurković answered the words, so here you go, and Križanović did. For the new one, let's just run out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11512	Here's how I got the answers, the answers to two questions addressed to the Council of Ministers. One is - when the Council of Ministers will agree to members etc. appoint secretaries and assistant ministers, directors, etc. and Second question – whether the composition of civil servants and other employees in the administration bodies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina corresponds to the national structure according to the 1991 census. With 19 addresses, the answer came. The Council of Ministers has made one, you have seen, I believe that you have received it, one of the dreary tables in which it is seen that roughly, well afterwards I will comment on it, the national structure, but first I would like to comment a little bit, first question on the first question of my understanding in these answers is this: 14 ministerial assistants are in the process of appointment or yet to be appointed, two secretaries of the ministry and one number of directors, agencies or institutions, etc. The archive of Bosnia and Herzegovina complains that the process of appointment of directors and deputies has already been completed, but the Council of Ministers does not give consent, and someone complains again, two institutions seem to be unable to complete the process of appointment or election because the Council of Ministers does not give them consent to the internal organisation rule. So these are all things that 22 Council of Ministers and responsible ministries have to do that part of the job. So you just have to speed up that process. According to me, again, in these strong papers, it seems to me that only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has completed the process of appointment and that the nearest or approximately national structure is the number of employees employed according to the '91 census. A year. So that's what I think it would make if it were some conclusion, a synthesis of that answer to the first question. The second question, therefore, is that the matter of the national structure of the Ministry of Civil Affairs has not delivered any information at all. They said it simply did not match the number of employed national structures, but here we will see that in the process of further selection of appointments etc. It'll be harmonised. And all who do not have a harmonised national structure have promised to coordinate, because a good part of the ministry or directorship, or the agency has not yet completed complete systematization of jobs and reception. I hope they do. And as the national structure thing stands, let me remind you, how much I remember the '91 data. The year in Bosnia and Herzegovina was 43% of Bošnjak, 31% or 32% of all Srbin and 17% of Hrvat are no longer sure. A slightly smaller percentage of 2 was Jugosloven. There are no more of them in this one of our own in today's puzzles. So categories of Jugosloven. And as we are now commenting on this dissuasive review of the Council of Ministers, it is immediately the other side, says this: of 1362 employees, 42.78% are Bošnjak, 33.45% Srbin, and 23.07 Hrvat and 0.70, 0.7% of others. So now I conclude that, from the order of the Croatian people, they have profited from the gods, six percent. I wonder if they may have inherited those former Yugoslavs. Huh? So what happened first to the Yugoslavs and second here, so congratulations to my colleagues in the order of the Croatian people, you're very equal and most equal to what's right here. The Bošnjak and Srbin are somewhere else, plus, minus one. It's kind of balanced somewhere. Well, when you look at the departments, the departments, the agencies.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11513	I beg you, Mrs. Đurković, this is an answer to the parliamentary question. So you can
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11514	Please. I'm commenting.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11515	Well, then you know 23.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11516	What I'm saying is that within the ministries, however, there is no structure like this. The agency and directorship are moving like this, see here Hrvat from 17.75% to 28% employees, Srbin from 12.90 to 42, Bošnjak from 25th to 69th. So here and there by different, when it comes to the sum, it's okay, but when individual ministries, directors, agencies, etc. etc. Then there's no, there's no equality, there's no harmonised national structure. And I would pray that indeed all those who, who sent all these addresses that sent these answers to execute, keep their promise to harmonize the national structure of employees. That's what I'm asking. And second to the Civil Service, I'm telling the initiative to finally launch a population list thing. And in 2005, so as of this year to begin, to open up the debate and start preparing, because 9 years since the end of the war, and the state still doesn't know how many residents there are. And in the end, we go towards European integration, how we will when, who will receive us when we don't even know how many of us we have, when we don't know, and how others will know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11517	I thank Mrs. Đurković. Ladies and gentlemen, who further calls to comment on the questions? There's no one here. Who's answering new questions? Mr. Sead Avdić, then Križanović, then Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11518	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I wish to submit an initiative and comment that the Higher Education Act has been waiting for a long time before the Council of Ministers. The law on higher education is objectively inadmissible. This law is fully in line with the standards of the European Community and the Council of Europe, made in the community with representatives of the international community, and is overly necessary, especially respecting the problem of the Bologna Declaration and the Lisbon Convention. With this initiative, I would call on the Council of Ministers to urgently reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, i.e. to get to know Parliament and the public about the problems that stand in the way of political consensus despite signatures that party leaders have given in the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus have confirmed the easy way towards European integration and Euro-Atlantic associations. 24 I would also like to say that there is a consensus of a rectorial conference or co-ordination, that you want seven universities from Bosnia and Herzegovina that all associations of young people have welcomed this law on higher education and that the public has also adopted this law with approval, and simply the Council of Ministers is still unable to reach a consensus on this law, which means that it is simply urgently asked by the Council of Ministers to refer the Law on Higher Education to parliamentary procedure. Otherwise, a group of MPs from this parliament will start to take over the law and introduce it into parliament, i.e. the House of Representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11519	I thank Dr. Avdić. I didn't want to interrupt, because I know that he has a need to say this, but my latest information says that the Council of Ministers agreed to the Higher Education Act and that we will get him into parliamentary procedure very quickly so that if this initiative, if this information that came to me is correct, I do not, of course, dispute that the MP had the need to say this. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11520	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm not actually going to ask any representative questions, and I'd like to propose something instead. At the last session, I, if you remember, gave a brief analysis of the answers to the parliamentary questions and suggested that our or this home in particular to some conclusion really break this practice. Here you see we have again today, not just today, but regular sessions, agenda points, and I think they've lost their purpose and purpose. Again, when it comes to parliamentary issues of no one from the Council of Ministers here, there are no oral answers to the answers waiting long and long, etc. For this reason, I have outlined the proposal for a conclusion that our home is therefore unhappy with the relationship between the Council of Ministers and other institutions, according to parliamentary issues, to leave out of the agenda point – parliamentary issues until this whole issue is brought into line with our work rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11521	I thank Mr. Križanović. I ask you this is such a point of the agenda are parliamentary issues, we cannot have conclusions within it but ask a question. But it's very hard to find modus 25 Business. We could do that as a special conclusion when we opened the session. So, knowing what we got, what we didn't, as a conclusion. I regret, but poslovnički opportunities do not define a specific conclusion in the context of parliamentary issues. But here, if I can convince my colleague Križanović here that we will have this conclusion if we do not have a serious situation at the next session as an active conclusion of the House. I think it's much stronger than that as part of the parliamentary issues. Thank you very much. So the word came from Mr. Ćeman, and then Jovanović, then Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11522	I would first and foremost support my colleague Križanović in the assessment that, for this part of the agenda, the presence of representatives of the Council of Ministers or members of the Council of Ministers should be located, but here is a little reminder, I hope that finally our Rules of Procedure will be upgraded, and there in a more direct way, I would say a better way to determine this problem, so here is the sooner we finish the Rules of Procedure, we will probably have a more efficient point of this agenda. I went out to ask actually two questions, and when I ask questions, it's always after I'm from the citizens in some way, either bound, or asked, or in the conversations that I have, I'm being shown some kind of problem. That's right today. My question concerns young people, but not only young people, but society issues as a whole, and it concerns a very problematic phenomenon of course. More and more, unfortunately, we hear that young people who found themselves in the claws of drugs died. This is also a very serious problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We must, of course, do more to prevent the causes, but also sanction the destroyers. Finally, those already in this hellish circle must be treated in an organized manner. My question therefore – do the executive authorities consider that the legislation in this is to say an area which, which should be sanctioned and dealt with by these entities, is sufficient basis for a successful fight against drugs, and if not, what should be fixed? Second – What are the obstacles if there are more effective openings in the drug treatment centre and where and already exist, or where there are already such centres in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and who is their founder? Then third – Who finances such centres, what is being done at all levels of government and entities, cantons etc. at the financial support of such centres and finally - Can schools and other educational institutions do more in youth education in order to prevent drug abuse and what co-operation with parents on this plan? 26 I said the question is precisely on the basis of contacts with people who feel a great burden and concern about what has really already taken a catastrophic proportion. My second question concerns the realisation of a law that we adopted in this congregation, namely Article 29. The law on the ministries and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration "Official Journal" No. 5/03 was mandatory for the Council of Ministers to decide within 90 days of the date of the entry into force of the Law on the status of archive equipment, etc., as well as for employees in the institutions who stopped working on this law. For example, the Institute. for health care, gynecology, etc. etc. I personally, and I believe some of you fellow MPs are talking to interested workers or members of their families, i.e. workers of these institutions, asking me to influence their status. Of course, this is not the only problem for workers, but it is certainly also a significant issue. My question is therefore addressed to the Council of Ministers, and can be answered immediately if anyone has – What has been done so far within the meaning of Article 29. The Ministry Act, in particular the resolution of the status of employees in these institutions and the exercise of powers from covered areas by ministries etc.? This is also an invitation to speed up the resolution, i.e. the implementation of the obligations laid down in Article 29 of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11523	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Miloš Jovanović answered the word? Can a colleague of Ćeman only pray in writing a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11524	Well, I wish he were chairman of the Council of Ministers here, too, but unfortunately, he's not here. Maybe you could answer directly. Namely, my question is - did he offer Mr Milorad Dodik the post of Minister of Defence as chairman of the Council of Ministers? Because visiting someone bigger on Belgian television, Mr. Dodik said he was offered this place, that he refused with an explanation that it was beneath him that it was humiliating for him to sit on such a ministerial council, so I'd like to know if he was offered it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11525	I thank my colleague Jovanović. 27 I may, if he pleases you, give you an answer that was offered to Milorad Dodik; but I do not know what Dodik's answer was. But here's if you need another answer from Mr. Terzić, he'll give it to you, but just in case you don't wander it was offered to Mr. Dodik, but he's as you know the opposition. Okay. Mrs. Milićević Ljilja. I apologize, Mr. Terzić will answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11526	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed fellow Members, my question is partly about our chairman, so I'll welcome this one, this one hardly answers me. We here regularly have an empty walk when it comes to questions and answers, because this is not the point of questions, this is also the answer, where we are not in a position to comment on our answers with those who delivered them to us. I said it once before, I didn't write it, so I wrote it down now and I'll give it to you. It is my initiative that our college try with the Council of Ministers to agree thematically on a session, it is this open hour where we ask questions, we comment on answers with the Council of Ministers. And I think we could have done it exactly in the plan for this year, so when we're planning the way Parliament works and that, I think that would have been the best way actually to keep us as deaf phones from fighting over why there's no one here. So thematic session on this topic point and that day to apologize nicely is answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11527	I thank my colleague Milićević. The Rules of Procedure should be amended. It'll be possible, we're working on it so we'll do it that way. Mr. Adem Huskić came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11528	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I fully agree with what my colleague Milićević said. I asked two questions in, I watched in May last year for no answer until today, so I swore that I would no longer ask questions, but that I would ignore the Council of Ministers as they ignore questions. But then it would be counterproductive and I thought I was still more responsible than they are. And I have to say today's question is that I came up with an idea within this agenda point. So I didn't mean to ask him, but today during these questions and comments, I decided to ask the next question 28 - What is the national structure of the administration bodies, and in other budget users in Republika Srpska, and in the cantons of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the state of the municipalities in both entities, in each canton and in the municipality? In order not to ask questions of this kind in part, I suggest that I get one question that will all contain all the data for the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11529	I thank Mr. Huskić. Ivo Miro Jović answered the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11530	I thank Mr. Chairman, the honourable representatives and colleagues, I think these questions will make it very clear that we are coming from the national parties.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11531	Or maybe he won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11532	I asked the president questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11533	Well, I don't know, but kids know who's from the nationals, who's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11534	I went out to ask one by myself an extremely important question that could raise a whole series of questions in order to understand and to progress and respect one another. You know that after two years of farce of the political process for the murder of late Minister Joza Leotar, the process is over, so my question to the Council of Ministers - Who will and when will return the money robbed from the Federation's budget given to criminals for false accusations in the politically mounted process of this murder? We've been hugging lately about some of them getting illegally rich through this time. We propose resolutions and laws, and the legitimate bodies of the state of the MUP and the Federation's finances have given, probably at the request of persons from the international mile, who have also worked closely together in criminal actions to commit a legitimate robbery and ask - When and will the prosecution launch proceedings against the people who robbed the Federation's budget who organised and prepared and committed this robbery? What else does it seem to determine the true condition of this murder, to reveal the perpetrator of this terrorist act? 29 Let us only remember that on the same evening several politicians who were also chairman of the parties at the time were saying that it was committed by criminal factors in the order of the Croatian people, as well as if you remember that building that was blown up in Mostar and it hadn't been a few hours that it was the same, and we know that later the prosecution held facts, though, after a few months the perpetrator escaped from the established prison in Zenica. My second question is the same count, but sad. In the Court of Kiseljak, so I'm coming, there's a police officer who's playing the Court. I don't need to hope to speak in this hall about the population in Kiseljak, but I would like to claim that there are five officers employed there and that all five Bosniaks are wearing Kanton Sarajevo on their coats, while Kiseljak is in the Central Bosnia County.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11535	I thank my colleague, Ivo Miri Jović. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for having us, we haven't used an hour for parliamentary matters. What Mr. Ivo Miro Jović was saying looks like an exchange of personnel between cantons. Thank you. We're going to the fifth point, I'm sorry I made a little joke, on the fifth point of the agenda, that's Ad.5. A request from the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Labour in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Bill were delivered on 23 February 2004. It was sent to lawmakers on 4 March 2004. As you can see, the Council of Ministers is asking us to discuss this request in a shortened procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on the request of the Council of Ministers. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. Who is it to support the Council of Ministers' initiative to discuss this law under Article 104? Do you mind? uzdržati? – 1 So with 1 abstention we accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. 30 We move to the 6th point of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The Commission’s report on the study of the so-called ‘examination’ of the so-called ‘examination’ of the so-called ‘examination’ of the so-called ‘examination’. You've received a report from the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, as far as I know, it says in the material that we have received Parliament will inform the Commission about the work. The chairman of the Commission is Dr. Tihomir Gligorić. Please, is there a Mr. Gligorić? I ask you to tell Mr. Gligorić with the papers he can work at the end of the day. No, no, I don't think about it, I think Mr. Gligorić is a serious MP. Here comes Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Gligorić at 6th we're agenda points. Do you feel like the chairman of the Commission that you need to address the House? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11536	Ladies and gentlemen, you've got the material, we've talked about this before, and I think the report has made it quite clear that the exact things we've been doing as a commission over the past three months. The Commission, as mentioned in the report, held 8 sessions. She interviewed 25 people, worked over 30 hours effectively. We should highlight the maximum commitment and co-operation of all the members of the Commission, and give them a real full recognition for their work. It should also be said that all those who responded to the call for co-operation, as well as respect for the Commission and the House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina as the highest legislative body of this country. I further point out that the members of the Commission had a unique objective of establishing the facts more objectively and to come to an objective truth which resulted in a consensus in the decision-making process so that all the conclusions, recommendations and the report were accepted as a whole. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the Commission has sought to establish the truth and this truth as a concept but there is also an institutionalisation of truth, i.e. the determination of truth by the relevant authorities responsible for certain areas. The Commission did not assume the role of those institutions which establish the ultimate institutional truth in terms of legal or illegal, but sought to establish the truth as a concept, as an objective category using evidence that something was true or not. In addition to the conclusions and recommendations set out in the Report, I must say some other findings that could have been found in the report but because of the need for this report to be as effective and more relevant, the Commission has concluded that I present them to the House. It's about the following notes. No BiH institution has fully and resolutely responded since 01/09/2003, when the case appeared in the media, leaving room for manipulation which negatively affected the 31st Bosnian Herzegovina public and the violation of the overall reputation of the investigative, judicial and other state institutions. It was found that FOS did not operate under the Code of Criminal Procedure, which opened the space for further manipulation when the number of these and those, since 01.09.2003, was written to quote: "the attached materials and according to the law can also be used as a dosage for the court" finished quote. The Commission believes that, on the basis of this particular case, the Commission's findings, the reform in this area in the future will remove the possibility of any abuse of intelligence security work to be based on the proper application of the law, particularly taking into account the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is in line with the Constitution of BiH or the European Convention with the accompanying protocols on human rights and fundamental freedoms. The new Security Intelligence Act, the agency, has elaborated the issue of parliamentary oversight so that there will be no need to form the occasional commissions as it was in this case. The Commission was of the opinion that it would be good to provide the same address to the institutions mentioned in the Report after the adoption of the Report and to inform us of the activities undertaken relating to the Report by means of feedback. I ask the members of the House to support the Commission's report, and that is how we end the parliamentary procedure on this important issue. Expecting this case to be a turning point in a positive way, so that similar cases do not repeat in the future. I also thank the MPs for their understanding and support so far and for the other members of the committee who have made one serious and responsible approach to the work of the Commission, by consensus decided that this report that we are delivering to you with the conclusions and recommendations that you have in mind, we shall decide unanimously and, please, to have in mind today the report that you have accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11537	I thank Mr. Gligorić. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Seada Palavrć called to say the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11538	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry we didn't have more time to analyze this report. I repeat, especially because the commission has been working for four months. However, what is, there is, now should work on this agenda point. But what I want to say first is the fact that the commission, regardless of Mr Avdić's intervention, is that she is not an investigative committee, but in her work she acted as an investigative committee. And I believe that in that context she has exceeded her powers. Also, I don't think it's a good thing that a member who was directly interested in the outcome and manner of the commission's work took part in the commission's work. It's about Mr. Lagumdžija. 32 What they would say about the short talk, it takes longer preparation. Since we haven't had time to prepare the exposure will be a little longer and I have to take this approach. So, I come from the conclusions proposed by the Commission. The first conclusion, which is said to be, was confirmed earlier by the competent institutions and the House, that there was no so-called. It's a case of a coup. I don't think Dom ever found out there wasn't a so-called. It's a case of a coup. It wasn't really his jurisdiction at all. We accepted the D.A.'s report which found that there were no elements of the coup and that's what's true in the F.O.S. report. However, here, the commission does not inform us whether the FOS has acted on a federal prosecutor's order and has added information that the prosecution might see if there were any elements of any other crime being prosecuted under official duty. So that's what the commission owes us. In conclusion number three, the commission finds it, I think it's a bit of a big qualification. The Commission found that in a Varta-led case, human rights violations occurred by publicising the content of private talks. I wish the commission had written here what an instrument for the protection of human rights is this act-injured. Then, point 4 states the commission that the source of human rights abuse and violation is, among other things, non-compliance with general and specific rules as well as the fact that sublegal acts are done under the FOS Law. Again, I miss the arguments that the regulations don't comply with and why. In this same conclusion, the commission said -- in this case, it was found that FOS FBiH had provided OHR with classified information, which threatened the human rights of individual BiH citizens. I think that this finding really doesn't need a comment in terms of delivering something in this country to OHR is a violation of human rights, then if this OHR previously gives consent to the appointment of ministers, then I really think this finding is immaterial. Then, in the 5th, the Commission found that the prescribed supervision and control of the FBiH Intelligence Service in this case had surfaced, not in the essence of the problem. First of all, the commission couldn't determine this, it wasn't competent. Secondly, as I recall when the commission was formed one of the conclusions that went public and according to the Federal Parliament, it was that they were doing this surveillance as prescribed by the law and I think this is indeed one of the flat-rate findings contained in this report. Point 7 found that the co-operation of entity intelligence police services with the judicial and prosecutorial authorities was irresponsible and untimely, which also objectively led to abuse in the proceedings. Here again, you need an argument because this whole case has referred to Federal 33 Intelligence and the Federal Prosecutor's Office and the Federal Court. So, we're missing the argument again. Point 8. I can't tell. Any kind of intelligence work, as in this case, is condemned against citizens, media and political activities that are in line with the BiH Constitution. Whether here is meant to be political activities that are in line with the BiH Constitution or the vision of intelligence work. Indeed, from point 8, it's not quite clear. Point 9 is a little bit of an unargumentation. This case clearly illustrates that there is no abandoned old practice of trying political accounting and public disqualification through intelligence structures that the possible foothold can only have in the old pre-war legislation. I could accept this if I were to be shown some kind of political conflict, from whom, whose, in what way. Then he had to exist, so you could come to this conclusion. The 10th assessment is that, in this case, some means of information have not been authorized to publish the content of documents bearing the official secret and thus created a distorted picture of the whole case. I'd like to know if this is really a publication, publishing the full report on the listening to Mr. Alibabić, or if it's just segments. In the recommendations, when it comes to prophesy number one, I think it becomes groundless at the stage when we have before us the State Act on the Intelligence Agency and that what is possibly a lack of that we have discussed and will still be discussed by the commission that was formed to bring together various voted texts. So, it won't be able to be here any more than three or two intelligence services, but it's interesting that the commission expects it to say so that sublegal acts can't be above the law as there are now cases. We should also know what sublegal acts are now above the law. In point 2, a work body for the supervision and control of the work of FOS shall be required to review the whole case and take any appropriate measures within its jurisdiction. Earlier in paragraph 5, the Commission finds that although it has no authority to do so, the Federal Parliament's working body has not done its job, and now again requires, and again it has no right, to review and appear to be reviewing until it gives an answer that would satisfy the commission. Thirdly, due to observed failures and on the basis of the knowledge that has occurred, it is recommended that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the Independent and Judicial Commission consider the role of judicial and prosecutorial authorities in this case in the context of the legality of the approval of the operational measures of special supervision. I, gentlemen of the Commission, ask if this means that the court must give a public answer for every decision it has made. What about judicial independence, a court with the immunity of the judge, with the responsibility of the judge. I think this is a little too much. 34 In the fourth point, in the context of respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms of the European Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, with accompanying acts, the commission is also composed of experts and accompanying acts, I would not want to guess what is meant by them. You should make it clear if you're referring to protocols with the convention, that they're protocols. It must be consistently embedded in the overall legal framework of BiH and applied directly without exceptions. Well, please, the Constitution of BiH applies directly. It has the power of constitutional provisions and has been ordered by every law. And you are now asking for it to be incorporated into laws, so it will be applied indirectly and re-apply directly. It would be your turn to make up your mind. Also in item 5 in the second position in the context of human rights and freedoms, it was learned that BiH citizens still do not have access to the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, and it is recommended that the BiH Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH urgently determine the agents for co-operation with the court. Gentlemen, I think your findings are wrong. BiH citizens have access to the court and the fact that BiH does not have an agent in front of the court only harms the BiH state. So, citizens and how they have access to the court. 6. in the context of the threat of human first and freedom, there has been a knowledge that the law of unregulated relations provides serious opportunities for employees to come under the influence of informal centres and political influences by the intelligence services, and it is recommended that these persons be protected as necessary to create a future professionalised from the political influences of the isolated intelligence service. I don't think it's really appropriate for a commission of this rank and a commission that's worked this long to give this kind of flat rate without any argument. Point 7. In the case of Vartaoci, there is a clear lack of coordination between the work of the Court's Office in The Hague for BiH and the Home Intelligence Security Service. This led to a violation of legal operational work without adequate protection of individuals officially engaged by Hague investigators and required that domestic intelligence authorities of the investigative and judicial institutions coordinate their work with the work of the Court of Justice in The Hague. Gentlemen, please, you've been working for four months. Take the Hague tribunal's paper, which clearly states that the person who was the subject of the FOS surveillance has no engagement in The Hague tribunal. 8. It is recommended that, on the basis of this case, current reforms in the field of justice, security intelligence services and services of internal affairs establish criteria and standards that would prevent the engagement of persons found to have violated human rights in these services, misused the official position and carried out their duties unprofessionally. I fully agree that this is necessary, but not based on this case, but it takes lustration in both the intelligence services and the police are conducted both in the prosecution and in the judiciary. 35 Point 9 recommends that domestic intelligence services and the Office of the High Representative for BiH and international institutions be defined in a transparent manner. I think that this is really beyond any criteria, especially since in the physibilities of the study as one of the conditions foresees as little as possible the role of the High Representative, and we now want to establish ourselves for the future. It is also recommended to the Press Council to review their work and role in this case in accordance with the press code. Gentlemen, I don't think that we as a Parliament have the right to recommend to the press council anything that they have independence and that, as CRA themselves, they follow the work of all media and electronic and written and that they should react. And 11 citizens who were subject to inappropriate intelligence processing that violated their human rights, all institutions involved in this case owe an apology. For these reasons, it must work to create a legal and institutional framework that will prevent similar abuses in the future. I'm just asking the argument for a point in which some citizens are found to have been subject to inappropriate intelligence processing. So, given the points I've looked back on and where I've made comments, I think it's quite enough for everyone to conclude that this is a completely unacceptable report for this House and that I don't think they'll be able to get any support in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11539	I thank my colleague Palavrić. Who's next to the word? Let's see if there's any more debaters. Who's still reporting for the Ricche ladies and gentlemen? Mr. Sead Avdić, Dr. Sead Avdić pardon. Dr. Sead Avdić, coming along, I left one out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11540	I suggest we leave this out of the notice.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11541	Whoever comes to it easily should leave it out, but who's hard.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11542	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think it is the first time in such a serious way that we approach one issue of intelligence services relations in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, above all, towards the citizens of BiH. And in this 36 context, it is absolutely necessary to respect documents and build a legislative system in this area. But objectively, this long-term procedure, from which a media case was created, created a case in which individuals were promoted, knowingly, deliberately, producing a case in order to maintain media tension as long as possible, normally that it had to result in such a report. I'm making an observation at all on the commission's authority. I've intervened on the record of this home in my time, and this home has changed the point by forming this commission. So this commission is not an investigative committee. This is the conclusion committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which was to sublime the debate, conclusions and submit a report to this home. I understand the Commission's wish and the need to talk, but with 25 individuals' institutions talking and that it takes 3 months 4 months, then it's out of its minds. Then it's out of your mind. I repeat, this commission did not have an investigative character. A colleague of Lagumdžija can nod all he wants and I recognize Dr. Lagumdžija's handwriting under this document. That's the problem. Yes, yes, Dr. Lagumdžija's handwriting, of course, to be clear and open. I think we know about the public of BiH and how this case is easily manipulated in the public of BiH. You've been holding media tensions under this case for three months, and read these conclusions. Read the conclusions, read the conclusions simply. Here's the conclusion of the 9th, and then the 5th conclusion, and then the 9 recommendations, then the 1 1st recommendation. Take it, read it, you'll see it's out of your mind. Really out of your mind, you're going as a result of simply subjective circumstances within the Commission itself, which means you didn't have a mandate to work on such a finding. I'm contesting, and in conclusion, this house has confirmed it. Which means I'm looking for a Mr. Chairman with a detailed insight into these materials. It writes here on the note – all interested MPs are informed that they have the opportunity before the official debate at the House of Representatives' Report at the Secretary of the Commission to make direct insight into the stenograms, records as well as other documents. So, I want to see this, I want to study this, let's see how many commissions it's been working on, and what it's been working on, and what it's come up with on these findings. She accuses, she gives us the qualifications of the Federal Parliament Commission that it is superficial, that she does not know how to work and that she should simply reconsider her conclusions. What the Federal Parliament Commission can say about this committee, then we will agree on opinions, etc. No Niko gave you the right to play mentor to the Federal Commission. Who gave you that permit, who gave you the right? You just needed... a meeting to see what it was about. So, subjective, arbitrary, report that is absolutely not today for adoption at Parliament's House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11543	I thank Dr. Avdić. The word came from Vice-President Šefik Džaferović. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11544	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in the first wave I had no intention of speaking about this item of the agenda, but Mr. Avdić's discussion actually prompted me and, deeply, agreed with what Mr. Avdic was talking about, I will only try to make some arguments that actually point to the conclusion that this was not the work of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' Commission. After this commission's work, I'm afraid we won't have to form a commission, an investigative commission to deal with the work of this commission. Please, first of all, the Commission has gone beyond the scope of the mandate given by this House. Take a look at the conclusion from the House of Representatives session, and you will see that the conclusion states that the Commission should sum up the debate from last session on the report of the previous Commission and inform the House. Even at the intervention on the record, Mr Avdić, at the request of Mr Avdić, made that clear. However, this commission was obviously not interested. He handled himself for some other reasons. And today we see, in fact, through this report which was the reasons, and I did not accidentally say that in the end this debate will actually result in the formation of a new Commission of Investigation that will investigate the way this commission works. The next thing that points to the conclusion that this commission has gone beyond its mandate and that it was not intended to do what its mandate was to do by the House, it refers to the conclusion of our home on the work of the earlier commission. Let me remind you, the House has formed an investigative committee of the College, chaired by two deputies, and this committee has proposed three conclusions to the House and the House unanimously adopted its report with those three conclusions. The first conclusion was, therefore, that the federal prosecutor's body found there were no elements of the crimes against the Federation of BiH and BiH constitutional order and that is correct and that is what the commission wrote in its report. That's what this commission's saying. But this commission avoids finding in its report the following two conclusions adopted by this House on the report of the originally formed commission. And that is, that the Intelligence Security Service, by the law enforcement authority of the federal prosecutor, has been ordered to perform a systematization of the file, to complete the documentation and deliver it to the federal prosecutor or the competent prosecutor so that it can assess whether there are elements of any other crime. I'm not going to talk here at all about forms of behavior that don't normally have the elements of a crime but are illegal forms of behavior. Injuries of various codes, infringements of the discipline of civil servants, etc. The conclusion, voted by this House, on a report by the previously formed commission, on the same topic, the commission did not say in its report. And the third, most important thing, about everything this commission has been dealing with and what we do here in Parliament, based on this kind of approach to this problem, it will eventually have to be 38 to say that we are actually only dealing with some peripheral stuff, we are dealing with some things in a specific case. We will not be able to deal with this issue in a quality way until the stenograms are fully available to the public. The third conclusion, this home, was recommended by the earlier commission report whose report was supposed to be the basis for this commission's work on whose report we're discussing today, to the competent authority to remove the confidentiality mark from the document and make the document available to the public. There is no question about that conclusion either in the conclusions of this committee. As long as the public finds out what it is, what was the subject of both the original commission and this commission, this parliament will not be able to make quality conclusions, nor will the public know what was going on in this case. We're only dealing with some peripheral stuff and we're never going to push the gist out of it. Because of that, of course, I can't support this report, because I think it's quite obvious that this commission has gone beyond the mandate and that the report has made it extremely trendy. I tried to draw attention to only two or three things that the commission had to consider and did not mention them in this report, and of course I will vote against this report. I could vote for a report on the condition that it should be completed, that the report be complemented by those conclusions adopted by this House on the debate, on the previous commission's report. So, to be determined, the state authority has asked the Intelligence Service to check that it systematizes, collects, checks, informs, delivers data on whether it has any of the elements of any other crime. It has been said, therefore, that it is undeniable that there are no elements of the crime against the constitutional order, and secondly, that the dom reiterates its conclusion that whoever is in charge of stripping the mark of secrecy from this document, the document becomes publicised. In that variant, with these two additions, I could support this report otherwise. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11545	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Who's next to the word? Dr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11546	Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully noted what you have been saying as your argument and Mrs. Seada Palavrić is also Dr. Avdić and Mr. Džaferović, but I would not talk about it. I want to try to say something in general. Since Mrs. Sead Palavrić literally refutes all the points in that report both the conclusions and the recommendations, and I don't dispute that that's your right, but I have to say that the commission has been working collectively, working with consensus, that there are very serious and responsible people and that they have concluded so. I'm not at all in a position to say anything outside of it today, except to say that it's now my private opinion. 39 I'm still saying that the commission did its job very correctly and not the bib answered for certain, meaning some of your questions that we certainly have an argument on. But I would only comment on this, and it's a huge accusation that the commission has not done its job in accordance with the mandate of this house and that it has no authority to do the job that it took to work as an investigative commission, because it is also the title of the Interrogation Commission. the case of "the coup". It is true that Mr. Sead Avdić had an intervention when the new commission was formed means a decision to form, but you have forgotten something about yourself, Mr. Avdić and Mr. Džaferović, and your story comes out of the context of the overall story from that last session, when it is concluded that a commission under that name is being formed, while taking into account the conclusions that have been proposed and adopted at the same time as all the conclusions of several MPs in which there is quite something else, which is that the commission should work in this way. Therefore, if you have reached the conclusion that all the papers as well as the previous investigative committees composed of you from the College, then the conclusion that has been reached where it is considered, it has in fact taken note of the conclusions proposed by the MPs, which it has a different category, but we have entered into these individual conclusions as a commission, and we have simply been obliged to respect it. Either you don't know it or you've ignored it. As for the objections made by Mr. Džaferović, better called the threat that a new Commission of Investigation will be formed, I really must say what a coincidence. When we called one FOS worker, not to mention names, it is not important, and I know clearly that the work of this commission, our commission that was working at the time, will be reconsidered and that the same words, which Mr Džaferović used by the new Commission of Investigation, will examine your work and we have received that kind of threat. Of course, they asked Mr. Lagumdžija to come out and leave the gym, etc. which is the same requirement, when it comes to Mrs Seada Palavrić and Mr Džaferović on the same background in the sense that they should not be. I am not Mr Lagumdžija's lawyer, but if we have reached a conclusion then and said that the clubs are also proposing after the constitution of that committee, the gentlemen of the procedure have been completed and there have been questions within the commission, and especially the FOS workers, why they will also sit in that commission of Mr Lagumdžija, where we have explained to them the procedure that only you within Parliament can change it, and not the commission that received in the conclusion of the Psrednament House such a structure of people. But I have to tell you, that this campaign is so skillful, so organized, so synchronised, this is now my personal opinion, with FOS, with certain votes and you representing the SDA in that sense that this whole case in which there are so many incorrect things towards people, in the way that the secret police are doing it, and you're very well aware of it, you want to eliminate everything and I think, I'm convinced that the commission has done the job correctly and has offered only one part of which we agreed and which is so correct for both the public and us. We did not let Mrs. Sead Palavrić in on how the MPs were and you should have criticised us if you had already taken the right to criticise the work of the commission, why did Mr. Sulejman Tihić say it was just the tip of the iceberg? Why did you say some things? Why did we not go in and in such a way to determine how many 40 statements have not been measured and in this House have contributed to making the whole case difficult in BiH. So I'm asking you to let go of all this that's being viewed from different angles and rise above these party interests. This report is necessary. It takes an apology from this parliament to the citizens of BiH so that something like that doesn't happen anymore. And get the strength to accept that fact and support this report. I, Mrs. Sead Palavrić, Mr. Džaferović, ask you, Mr. Sead Avdić, to hold your strength and accept this report. It will bring more benefits to BiH and BiH institutions than obstructions in the way you started. Once again, I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11547	I thank Dr. Gligorić. The river was first reported to Džaferović, then Avdić, so will Sead? Well, Sead. Let's go in circles.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11548	So, my colleague Gligorić is quite clear to me your methodology, so this one and I didn't really come out to rephrase to you. I did ask for a word about the replica, because I have nothing to replicate on. I just came out to tell you this. So, you're actually skillful attacks, putting in my speech what I didn't say, very skillfully how otherwise it's unique to you, avoided actually answering the questions that I asked. I'm asking you again, and I expect answers from you. Therefore, it is possible to write in points 1 of the conclusion – the conclusion 1 confirmed earlier by the relevant institutions and the House that there was no so-called "state impact". Home confirmed it. It wasn't the term of coup, it was the crimes against the constitutional order. At least it's a formulation. Why didn't you, Mr. Gligorić, if you're objective and you're not trendy, write another conclusion that I was talking about here. You didn't answer that question. Why didn't you give Mr. Gligorić a third conclusion from that report? That's all Šefik Džaferović asks you. I'm not asking you any more questions. And if you want to see if you've overstepped your mandate or not, maybe you don't just trust yourself. Take a look at the stenograms from these sessions and see what the conclusions are and what you've discussed with this matter. So I'm asking you to answer these questions, and everything else is an empty brew I don't want to participate in at all, of course. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11549	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Sead Avdić and Seada. Please, Tihomir Gligorić, since he played only the president of the commission, does not turn this into a 41 story between Tihomir Gligorić. The Commission has been working fully to allow a little debate, not to be, I'm just suggesting I don't insist on anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11550	Let's be precise about the simple evaluation of individual degrees. So, Parliament, the House of Representatives that discussed the College's report, had a broad discussion, there were discussions, suggestions, initiatives, proposals for conclusions, but nothing was voted on. There was no vote on any conclusion. We voted only on the establishment of a commission that will come from discussions, proposals, etc. sublime and propose a new conclusion complex to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. And that's the only truth and fact. So there was no vote on the conclusions of any MPs present at that session. So an objective mandate can be brought under question. An objective mandate may be brought under question. And other than that, since Dr. Lagumdžija was a direct participant of the event conditionally said, damaged side, here's to say etc. The chairman of the Commission should have asked Home to replace a member of the commission because he could not work with this simple member of the commission who is directly interested in the functioning of the commission by jeopardising its independence simply impartiality, etc. etc. And Lagumdžija's moral code demanded that he resign on that commission, which is out of every sense that the SDP Club would propose such a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11551	I thank Dr. Avdić. Sead Palavrić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11552	I must remind Mr Gligorić that as Mr Avdić said
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11553	I'd like some patience to hear from my colleague Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11554	During the debate on the Commission's report, which was indeed of the three members of the College in office of the Investigation Commission, nothing was accepted except three conclusions interpreted here by Mr Džaferović and that there were conclusions from the MPs as Mr Gligorić said, then this commission would not have been formed to propose conclusions, which was her job. Secondly, please don't spare Mr Gligorić the SDA, Sead Palavrić, Mr. Tihić, so you haven't argued this report. I give you the basic objection and I give you the fact that he's a cobweb, which again leaves room to speculate on political influences. I told you and then, sir, please write down every moment when there was any statement, where it was, what it was and then give it to me, so tell me that there were political 42 influences or political images distorted. For political influence, you need to prove to me a mongo, much more than your findings of obviousness and other flatulence assessments. I beg you, again, do not speak and do not state your statement, and you did not state Tihic's statement and you did not state it, and you did not state it. Then I challenged you, and here's everything you claim to prove, and I'm willing to answer for it. You did not do it again, but as Mr Avdić said you did what you intended to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11555	I thank my colleague Palavrić. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11556	Mr. Nikola Špirić, the chairman is asking for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11557	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, esteemed guests, I think this is a subject that has caused a lot of attention and what I want to say is congratulations to the commission that numbered nine members, who did a huge job. She showed full seriousness, sat for 35 hours. I think, since I have done everything in three sessions of us three members, Mr Džaferović, Raguć and I, that I can judge how complex the work was and what is particularly important is that the commission has unanimously offered this report to Parliament. With this report, he can be content and dissatisfied. Some finds in this or that position, but what surprises me won't be angry with my colleagues, I won't invite anyone to the replica, the commission didn't have the task of producing a means to erase someone's memory, so Sead Avdić's vision of the signature of Zlatko Lagumdžija doesn't say that the commission is wrong, but it speaks of his personal animosity towards Zlatko Lagumdžija and his personal animosity is not a good ally, and if he recognizes some of the last signatures that Sead Avdić stopped when he was a member of the SDP, then he also says about the moral credibility of people that when they leave something they say to erase a part of the past they belonged to. It's not good, and I don't think this report is about that, because it wasn't the commission's task to find an effective means of erasing memory. That I didn't conclude that this was the conclusion. The second thing, Sead Avdić says he wants to study, so the committee is just writing gentlemen, you who want to see what the job was, you have documents at the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, you can study 2 months, 6 months, a year, how long it takes you to get to know all the objective facts to judge in the report. And what's not the tip of the iceberg, but the ultimate cynicism that someone thinks should form a commission that will deal with the way this commission works. That says something's wrong. Gentlemen, I thought we'd get the strength to do what was negative, if there were and how long it was, that we'd put in a point today and send out a clear sign to the public that what wasn't worth not being repeated, so that intelligence services in this country that were happily done right, we wouldn't have created a single intelligence service at 43 state-level. Well, if the entities had cooperated without working on each other's heads, then it wouldn't have been the conclusion that it all caused us to come to one law, one state intelligence service. Well, if the case hadn't been out of the mandate, so she listened to people when they asked if the family was turkey for lunch, or if it was beans, or if I didn't know what else, there wouldn't be any of these conclusions. And what is particularly important, I think that, and in that sense, I will support this report, regardless of what certain items seem to me too general or general, but that is the task I was thinking afterwards, the task was this parliamentary commission. She's the only one who can write with that dictionary because she doesn't have any other ingenuity. But what is particularly important, which I would draw attention to, is Article 3 in the conclusions where it says – the Commission has found that in the case of a Varta-led human rights violation has occurred by publishing in means of public information without the approval of the competent authorities of the content of private conversations from unprocessed transcripts and recordings on two CDs with a label of secrecy. And that's true, one man who was accidentally tapped and said you know Mr. Chairman of what could only happen. Someone could break up the marriage. They listened to me. I talked to a colleague on the phone. It could break five or six marriages, and none of that's gonna happen. So who can, who has the right to listen to private conversations? What occasion and why? So the Intelligence Service and the way it was done has done a lot of damage. He threatened to outgrow it and how this Parliamentary Commission describes it here. The Commission then concluded under number 5 that the prescribed supervision and control of the work of the FBiH Security Service, in this case, has come to a superficial conclusion, not in the essence of the problem. Well, I guess that's what the commission did on the basis of conversations with the Federation Intelligence Chiefs, with a supervisory authority. It's not an arbitrary sentence of this commission. Or, the conclusion under the 7th found that the co-operation of entity intelligence security police services, with the judicial prosecutor's authorities, was inadequate and untimely, which also objectively led to abuse in conduct, etc. So, it's all been determined on the basis of massive analyses, conversations, and I know it wasn't easy for the commission. This conclusion, number 8. I agree with my colleague Palavrić, is not clear to me either, as it is said that every kind of intelligence work is condemned and in this case against citizens, media and political activists who are in line with the BiH Constitution. I guess they're not in line, which is not in accordance with the BiH Constitution. So this is just a technical mistake but it changes the essence of the conclusion. I think it's a good idea to give some of the recommendations that the commission sends to the competent authorities for the work of this one, and I have the impression that this is the essence of the way we're discussing today, and as far as we're listening, it's saying that the essence is almost nobody, and it's not interested. And that's what's most tragic knowledge after what was called a 44-year-old coup. For example, the recommendation is required by the working body to monitor and control the work of the Federation of BiH Intelligence Service to review the whole case once again under its jurisdiction and take appropriate measures. And there are people absolutely right, because I've had conversations with people who work in the service who complain that they've had an investigative case within the service of unsuspecting people. So I was saying that he was threatening people to lose their jobs, and even if anything this Parliament did right, it was that he prevented the Dril Powers from being disabled in the service that they were willing to go outside the law. And what's wrong with being suggested to the Supervisory Board to see if there was or wasn't. So don't you think it's very important for a future state-level intelligence service that these thugs who were willing to use the service don't find their place in the new state service? That would be an active conclusion for me, regarding this case. That all those who have violated the procedure, violated human rights in accordance with the Geneva Conventions cannot find their place in the new intelligence service because we will believe me in a short time to have similar cases in the BiH state. Then, on the basis of the observed information-based failures, it recommends the High Judicial Council of the Independent Judicial Commission to review the role of the judicial and prosecutorial authorities in this case. Well, that's in the act of conclusion, remember that there was a story that the prosecutor didn't sign, did sign, with whom in agreement and in what way. But I think this is a good dictionary used by this committee. The 9th conclusion is then recommended to define, in a transparent manner, the domestic intelligence services and the Office of the High Representative for BiH and international institutions' relations. I think this is an active and true conclusion if BiH institutions want to take responsibility in their own hands. How is it possible and I ask why it is possible for the report to have a High Representative and there is no chairman of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. Is that like a state institution? I don't think it's used anywhere in any document, no matter what the High Representative has the right to check, appoints ministers, that his intelligence services must be his service. He's got his intelligence, don't worry, they know what the Home Service was eating today. But intelligence services must, in accordance with the law, account where the account is to be held with full respect to the Office of the High Representative. So why wouldn't the High Representative use it if they gave it to him? In some means of information, it is recommended to the Press Council to review their work and role in this case in accordance with the press code. So according to the press code, nothing more and nothing beyond that. And that's from the point of view correct. Not to mention the other conclusions. What I have to say in the end is that I'm going to support this report, put an end to what was called a fictional or 45-based coup. It was for different accounts. The public is almost clear who thought the score had already been scored. So there are no more political points on this one, but there is a serious need for state institutions to build legislation so that this cannot happen in the future. In that sense, I think this should end with what colleague Šefik has proposed and new conclusions and should be discussed in order to adopt today's report on this committee. I'm afraid if we don't adopt this commission's report today, that we're going to send another message to the public that we're going back at a time that's not good, which is not for the honour of BiH and its institutions, at a time when nationalists are trying, don't be angry with nationalists under quotes, to keep parallel systems and parallel intelligence services. This is what happened because the parties had, because we had parties and not official entity or state services, and this can only be a warning that through the active contribution of all of us, we get to a good state-level law, so these cases don't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11558	I'd appreciate it if we could just sort things out. What do you have to discuss, a replica? Wait a minute, then. So, Mr. Avdić's replicas, so Mrs. Palavrić. After that, you have an intervention, right? Then the discussion, Mr. Duraković. That's some order I managed to catch you with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11559	Yes, (?) The state should be built and it is difficult to refuse Doctor Špirić much of this discussion, but if one party needs, especially the SDP, if it is in this case SDP, to defend Dr Nikola Špirić from Sead Avdić, then it is a poor and sad party, under one. Number one. Two, Dr Špirić ignores the fact that before the adoption and adoption of this document, what is with the secretary of the commission should be read. Before, not later. After that, it's a post script, it's after the interest of history, which means we'd be able to get cold heads to make these conclusions, so I guess we should get to know what the commission's been doing for three months. Which means the objective question is why today hastily adopt these conclusions, which motive. When we've waited three months, we can wait another month, it's no problem. To get to know each other, to consider everything that is within the Commission, which means they have some goals behind it. Why do they simply propose to supplement the agenda today, and we simply have the commission's conclusions. Answer me if you have an argument. Why is he in such a hurry? Why does anyone care at all costs, simply says that institutions that were all here, 25 46 institutions simply apologize to individuals who in this case are damaged or touched by the press, the media or something else. It's an affair.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11560	I thank Dr. Avdić, just a little bit, but I, okay, okay,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11561	There's Nikola, you're the one.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11562	So Sead has a replica. Seada Palavrić, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11563	I will not replicate at all what Mr. Špirić said has the right to different visions, just as I do. The fact that he turned things around like that, when the commission actually proposes to the federal working body, the Parliamentary Committee that oversees FOS, Mr Špirić says it only suggests it to FOS. So, swap thesis. But the same when it comes to the reports that the commission is referring to. The argument that had to be offered here was not strictly confidential and every finding and claim had to be justified and the details of something about the depths, which we could look at in strictly confidential reports. And next, Mr Špirić says we need a security intelligence service that will be professional, which will not be a party, especially in which the national parties will not have power, and I remind Mr Špirić that the Federal Intelligence Service was created by AIDS and the Croatian Security Service at the time of the Alliance headed by the SDP, Mr Lagumdžija and other SDP parties. They set from first to last man. The national parties have not replaced a single man. I repeat, unfortunately again, the media will only transfer this part, but if there was non-professionalism in FOS, it is one of those who set it up, and it was set up by the SDP and the Alliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11564	I thank my colleague Palavrić, and I thank Mr Zorić for his replica. Okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11565	The chairman, so I think,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11566	Ladies and gentlemen, no, I don't think this is a serious thing, I know that you're praying to Bog that we end this and that everyone is doing things the way we were, but I think it's time to watch something a little longer forward. 47 I have no need to defend Dr. Avdić SDP. I think the SDP can defend itself. He's simply imposing himself as the best solution in the Federation. I know there's anxiety, but there's much better to ask to be made, sometimes it's a good step back and a step back instead of extra steps forward, but it's a personal choice and I don't need to defend the SDP. They're themselves able to defend themselves. What you said was good for MPs to get to know each other, not to bring such reports too soon, I now warn you of the end of the report where the note is written. The public is trying not to give people the impression that this is something in a hurry, that someone cares about being quick with conclusions, Bog forbid. It says here – all interested MPs are informed that they have the possibility before the official debate of the House of Representatives on the report by the Secretary of the Commission to carry out a direct examination of the transcripts, the minutes, as well as the other documentation available to the Commission with the obligation to keep the confidentiality of the use of the data in accordance with 10. Rules of Procedure. So please just don't get nervous. So everyone could use that right if he wanted to, to get to know what he was interested in outside the report, so he could say today whether this was standing or not. As far as my colleague Palavrić Seada's commentary is concerned. I agree, you see, she says both AID and SIS skills at the time the Alliance ruled. And that's fine. But no one said it was unmistakable, and the quality of SDP and Dr Lagumdžija was going to determine the mistakes in that period. So you don't see that quality. I don't know why you're infatuated, why you're infatuated with something else always... and I'm congratulating people. There are no sinless ones, and I think that's exactly the quality of the commission's work. Unfortunately, I have a feeling that you've identified yourself with this period because you've been government for too long, but I have no intention of, of course, defending the position of Dr. Lagumdžija, either, but what's been going on in your debates like everyone here has the right to be members of the commission, except for Dr. Lagumdžija. Do you, then, who is a burden upon any messenger, and all of them have found that man is neither guilty nor in debt? Why wouldn't he be a member of the commission? Why doesn't Zlatko Lagumdžija say what's wrong with the service, and Nikola Špirić, Sead, and I don't know Momčilo or anyone else. Why? What rights do we play within this House, so some have the right and some have no right. Well, you, for example, are defending yourself for four years, so the next case will be defended by someone else. So we're establishing new democratic principles and standards and I don't think this is against any party. Against any coalition, but it's time to seriously put an end to it, is there really someone in this room sitting who's convinced that intelligence services didn't do what they were doing and they were breaking the law? Is it really someone, are we all convinced that if they're convinced they are, why does it bother the competent authorities who are doing this work to question behavior here in this particular case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11567	Okay, thank you, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Vinko Zorić has his word. Let Mr. Nijaz Duraković prepare himself. And you, on the other hand, have already announced Moranjkić and Novaković. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11568	Mr. Chairman, I am in possession of the HDZ Club announcing a half-hour recess before the announcement, so after this debate, we will consult with our member. All the clubs had their own representative in this investigative committee and possibly correct their position so far. We were ready immediately at the beginning of this, after Mr Gligorić's opening statement on this report, and therefore, I am announcing a break in advance, and I don't think there is a need for this kind of discussion, or for the Democratic Club to expect their opinion to be presented to the media, because we haven't learned to be presented in the positive light in the media, no matter how properly and positively we participate in this House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11569	I thank my colleague Zorić. Dr. Nijaz Duraković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11570	First, Nikola and I agree that SDP is the best option but not just in the Federation, why not be in RS, for example.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11571	When we get together, we'll be the best together.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11572	I went out to make a concrete suggestion and what I'm saying is this personal attitude of mine, so I wondered if I should even talk about it. I've been on the stand since the beginning that the so-called coup is beneath the first pure fiction. Legally speaking, let's be too big of a jerk. We all know what a blow is and who does it and how it is, etc. And I wouldn't lie about it. But I'm also convinced that this parliament has far, far smarter work than one that smells of inter-party bickering, of the satisfaction of certain vanitys, and of the propaganda inflatation of this particular case for months and months. And we're really gonna be a little embarrassed. We've identified some priorities, we've established what's necessary in the next month's time to do so, etc. But we're still at the task of doing ephemeral things. I'd dare say, somewhere in public and suggest it can and here, which will make us even those services next to the Ministry of Interior or Security, call whatever you want, and besides all the power I'm always wondering what these Mis's, FOS's, the PISs, I don't know what we're gonna call them anymore. And we're the only ones dealing with some kind of intelligence, as long as people, who are more stalkers, why he's stalking him, who he's doing, why listening, no matter who he wants and what he wants, we've got better things to do in this country. Once on this parlement, let's open a story, an empty story. Make sure he's in a continuous session. We can't get into the Partnership for Peace any worse, we can't get into the VTO, which is the most crucial thing that we live on, in the World 49 Trade Organization, we can't live anywhere because of what we're doing here. Who was listening to whom, etc. Believe me, I've been in politics for 30 years, and I've seen a lot more, I've read as many of you here, hundreds of thousands of pages and smart but even more stupid bureaucratic, police, quasi police, CK's, whatever you want, appraisal, insane often, ossion, underestimating, every other text, but I've rarely come across a report like this on a subject like this. That's my impression. First of all, let no one be angry, my personal impression is that this report is the least said inconclusive. Secondly, it comes out in many domains of the Commission's jurisdiction. Third, he's legally illiterate, unfounded and unconsistent. You lawyers, there's plenty of you here, you've already noticed that. He is in many parts, let no one be angry, let him not take him as his own personal report, it is the Commission's report, therefore, but he is a cobweb, full of material mistakes. Here, the error mentioned in Article 8, it's not a simple mistake, it's absolutely changing the meaning. So all those who stick to the Constitution should respond. It's an opportunity to make a joke. Article 5 too, by pretty contradictory. And what palavrički has rightly stated, many members have. There's a mix of competences, etc. And in the end, who really is and why is afraid that all the material is being published? Let's be honest. Is there anything in this country, but nothing that's strictly po or so on. Your state secret, so let's not kid ourselves. There isn't. Well, here, high-ranking and all the intelligence services of the world, whoever they want and wherever they want, so we have all the agents, both famous and unknown. And what secret people, what we're messing with. So if it's all already been published to the press, why hasn't it all been delivered, so here's what happened. So let it evaluate this parliament and everyone else whether it is, what it is, how it is, whether it's serious, whether it's unserious, whether it's seductive, whether it's blackmailing, whether it's this or that. I think this parliament therefore deserves a more serious report. And here's his proposal. In addition to all the shortcomings of this report, we receive this report to knowledge, so to learn, that we realize that the attempt of a coup was not and that we reject all such insinuations of this kind, and that there were all those weaknesses that were listed there, so we don't have to work very hard to prove the weaknesses of the work of intelligence services, all inconsistencies, usurpation, weaknesses, etc. But let this Parliament say so. We accept that, with the obligation of competent notifications, the authorities continue to work on clearing these weaknesses, but to primarily focus on the adoption of key system laws and what we have identified as the priority of this Parliament. And you'll see that then we'll reconcile all these inter-party wrinkles, that we'll respond to 50 responsibilities that this Parliament is objectively bearing, and be clear of conscience in the definition of this conclusion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11573	I thank Dr. Duraković. Mr. Moranjkić answered the word. Can you reach that conclusion, Dr. Duraković, in writing alone? Let's just construct it with a moment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11574	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, fellow MPs and MPs, I will not comment on a point by point, as some colleagues have done, because in my opinion to engage in this, means to have these great materials, strong statements, intense conversations, etc., because we do not have it, I think it is unserious and to engage in such an adventure and to say whether something is true or not. So if I had that material, I could comment on whether one conclusion from that material is correct and adequately drawn or not. So I won't. I'll try it another way, because here just to say it in that context I can trust or not trust the Commission to draw those conclusions correctly, but, did the commission come out of context, out of the task it was given and the task that was expected, etc., it may be the subject of debate. And that can easily be determined, because we've given the commission what frameworks to move it. Whether or not it was moving, then something that is under the alleged sign of excess may be possible to move or not, defuse and say this is a non-necessary supplement, or it is ballast with this report. I'll say my opinion and my expectations from both the report and the investigation, and they're short said three things. Was there an attempt on the destabilision organization? Indeed, this unfortunate coup has no place on any basis and I agree with Mr. Duraković when he characterized it. And if there were any shops, speculation in terms of destabilization of a system at one time, that should have been said by the commission, and she said in part that it wasn't and we accept it, that it wasn't. But if it wasn't, and there was smoke, then it was supposed to be me, the commission might get in, it wouldn't come out of the box, to say who created that smoke, and to draw the conclusion that it was meant to create this fama, which we don't need at this time, or the least we need from these huge problems of life that the state should do, or in its part of creation. That's not what happened. Therefore, I propose that these tasks, or conclusions, be better said by the commission, that they should once again just be terminated. What the surplus is said to be omitted in a certain way, and what was the task of reshaping and saying again. And that's these two tasks, and I think she's already been told once, and I agree with that commission, but I don't agree with her being the first commission to be so simple as her own task that 90% has left to be done again, and then she's engaged in the negation of 51 of this commission's work, which I don't think was necessary in a certain way. That's the opportunity of my proposal, the solutions to getting out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11575	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. No crisis, no crisis. A colleague, Novaković, answered for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11576	The Honorable Chairman, the distinguished colleagues, it's a little awkward for me to spoil this idyll today and all these outpourings of the opposition's gentleness, so I won't, in that sense, discuss this a lot so that I don't, uh, spoil all this kind of thing that looks nice. I first want to be convinced that this commission has worked impartially, objectively, and that what it has proposed has been unanimously proposed by all members. I appreciate the effort the Commission has made and I think that it has kind of made this effort popular. I also agree with those who have said that this report is not directed against any party, not one individual. But it's also a fact that it is for one party and for some individuals. And in that sense, the objectivity of the report is raised, but I still allow that I am wrong, or that I am wrong. What's important, too, is that this case needs to be closed today. I don't think he'll end up refusing the report, but only then will the problems of this case continue. That is why I am very close to Mr Duraković's proposal that this report is actually taken to the knowledge or to the knowledge of all the negatives, which are listed there and with a warning that these negativitys are in the future trying, I say, will never be avoided, but will try to avoid. We will agree on the final position of the club after this break, because I also said at an extended college I did not read this report until today, so that we will consult with a member of the Commission from our club and we will see and get closer to both the way we work and the conclusions. But if the conclusions were to go to Mr. Duraković's proposal, I think we would be willing to support them right now and put a certain point on this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11577	I thank my colleague Novaković. He's right. This is not the opposition's report, but the commission formed by this parliament, which reflects Parliament's party structure, and I don't think that today someone wanted to create a stage here for the opposition. It would be good for parliamentary majority representatives to come out with arguemous praise for intelligence services, if such arguments exist. He answered for the word, who's on the phone. Are there any more debaters? There isn't. I am concluding the debate with Mr Gligorić to address but that he does not cause replication if possible. There's no need for replicas. I think we've been too long. 52 I would ask to conclude the debate and we will give the request a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11578	Ladies and gentlemen, since there have been a few specific questions, I would also like to give an answer. Mr. Džaferović asked, when he spoke in part of the institutions who said so, etc. They came out in the sense that we also said to remind ourselves that the House of Representatives, after an investigative committee in which you were a member, had definitely said the same thing. Then, the prosecutor of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina also explicitly said that there was no such term or syntagma, or that you would like "a live blow". At the same time when we talk about it, which I wish you were, and I'm not really challenging the line, I'm choosing, whether it's good that, based on analysis or analysis, you got into it, that both in FOS and in the prosecutor's office and elsewhere, and even in this commission, you found that there was no coup, but that it was, and also with FOS, basically, not evidence, so they picked it up, so they went a little wandering between what the evidence is, etc. said there was an organized group, which was working to destabilise the BiH and government government, with the aim of provoking early elections and the prosecutor said what the European Conference on Political Freedoms and all others said, and we probably know that, too. I wish you'd analyzed it and said that this fact by FOS, as the crown's evidence doesn't really stand. Everyone has the right to seek early elections in this country, and I would like you to be objective and to criticise this report and rightly criticize it, and at the same time you give this other side, to be objective and to other things, and not to defend yourself in one sense, which is why objectivity, especially a lawyer, loses meaning. And, I think it's important, under the condition that we got out of power, and we didn't, I explained why and that we went out, I guess establishing the truth in this country is the basic principle and we should have been told the goal is to determine the truth in this case and thank the commission and its chairman on the way they worked. Next, Mr Avdić told Lagumdzija and others you said and commented on his work to the Commission. Mr. Lagumdžija in that transcript is, mentioned three times and nothing more and he is not subject to the agenda, as I put it all the time, it is a point of the agenda far broader context of the problem than Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. If we are as people, as parliamentarians, politicians and Democrats, we turn that one general direction. It needs to be contained in this country a negative phenomenon, which is obvious here. It's irrelevant here Mr. Lagudmžij, they're as important as people, of course, but don't show it as if it's a problem and then you know, you go to another extreme, it comes down to a political argument, which, absolutely, doesn't stand. Dr Špirić said well, presidencies that this would be a bad message if they did not accept this report, because in this way, in fact, political action would be introduced into Parliament and this would very negatively echo in the public with all possible repercussions and consequences, which would produce. Think about this, a possible moment, when you decide and, Mr. Duraković's proposal, is a political consensus. Of course, you can think about it, but I think it would be better if we as parliamentarians, without 53 of this political interference too, could be able to accept or reject the report. Because to resort to this is about us not being able to face the truth, to be responsible, to all the problems that bear one question like this, and to me this is running away from real responsibility looking for a model in which it can reconcile everything. No, I don't. This can't all die. It's true here. There's a conscience here. Politics and parties must be below that because human rights and fundamental freedoms must be above all else in this BiH. I, as chairman, ask you to plead with me on this report and bear the responsibility of everyone if he does not support this report. I think it's correct, I think the Commission has been working, I repeat again, very responsible. People are represented from all parties, oppositions and positions, and I believe that this report is good in relation to other reports and that it is not even bureaucratic and that it has said as much as the Commission can in principle say. It is up to other authorities to establish a possible truth through the institutions of the system, because this commission and this Parliament are not a court and, indeed, we have tried to find that measure that can satisfy everything. Because someone is afraid of the next phase, by institutions that can determine responsibility and that we are already starting to defend them in this parlamettium today, please don't do it, it's not good, it's safe for BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11579	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Ladies and gentlemen, please, no one has answered for the discussion. I'm closing the discussion. I'm taking a break from the HDZ Club proposal. They're looking for a break. I'm giving you two hours off to use for lunch. We leave at three o'clock. Three o'clock, we're in the O.R. ...to continue our work. [[PAUZA]] We're done taking a break. If there's a need for the HDZ Club, they're looking for a break, to give an explanation. There isn't. We're going to a plea. Ladies and gentlemen, we're putting the Commission's proposal to the conclusion on the report. So, we put to the vote the Commission's report on the so-called Interrogation Commission. It's a coup. Who is it to accept the Commission's report? Who's against the report? Who's being held back? So of the 32 attending 20 was for – versus 5, abstention 7. We're going to an entity. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? So, from Federation 11 from RS 10. I find that the Commission's report on the investigation is so-called State impact accepted. I congratulate the Commission on the work it's done. It was a big, hard job, and then we move on to the 7th point of the agenda. 54 Ad.7. The request of MPs Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Does the Rules of Procedure need to explain their request? There's no need. Who's answering for a word? I'm opening a debate. Mr. Filip Andrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11580	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, here I would not much like to enter into the content of the law at this time, and I would not be determined on this matter, but since we are proposed under article 105, take or leave, which I have always been against from the very beginning. In addition, we had more laws, and I was one of the legislators of one law under Article 105 when all my fellow MPs begged me to give up that proposal and to follow Article 104. As I recall, we discussed this issue once, so, if I am not mistaken and we have concluded that, in the future, the draft laws, which are legislators, are going towards the Council of Ministers to get an opinion, i.e. a statement by the Council of Ministers on this matter. As a member of the Rules of Procedure Commission, I also know that a binding procedure is provided for in the new Rules of Procedure. So, when he is not a legislator of the Council of Ministers' laws, in this case he must pass a certain procedure, i.e. get an opinion. What kind of opinion the Council of Ministers will be, it's from case to case. I don't need to get into this, but I don't see any reason for such a haste, and I'd like to have a position on this law, or the Council of Ministers, before saying it. Well, I don't understand why this particular case is being bypassed by the Council of Ministers, and my proposal would be that, for all of us, this should be directed to the Council of Ministers, or if the legislator of this law agrees, to give up the procedure, to take or leave it, to request the opinion of the Council of Ministers, and there are sessions in almost permanent session anyway. So I don't think we can lose much time if we take that step. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11581	I thank my colleague Andrić. Who's next to the word? Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11582	Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow MPs, I thought there would be no need to give any explanation. After last session of Parliament and the conclusion, discussions and conclusions adopted by this parliament. In fact, the story last time was a discussion, i.e. the conclusions of a specific case, related to manufacturers, i.e. from the automotive industry, a collective which, among other things, is related to this provision. 55 Among other things, this parliament has concluded that within seven to 10 days, the Council of Ministers has made a temporary decision as it has done so far, and unless it does so, the Council of Ministers will do so in accordance with its powers. Since the Council of Ministers has not made the appropriate decision within 15 days, I, as an authorised legislator, have referred this law to parliamentary procedure. I fully agree with my colleague that, in principle, all the laws proposed by the MPs go in some way through the Council of Ministers, in which way the Council of Ministers would give its consent, or its opinion on the proposed law, but here it is only a matter of really good will, whether this provision, or whether this amendment wishes to be adopted or not. It is perfectly clear here that it is about the need for change and that it is about the urgency of the amendment, i.e. the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11583	I thank my colleague Hadžiahmetović. Who's next to the word? Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11584	Dear colleagues, I will only state the position of the party club. In fact, we have not yet supported the demands of MPs for procedure 105 for logical reasons. If the Council of Ministers has not been able to take sufficient account of all the seriousness of this situation and he is proposing such a law, then I fear that MPs can find it very difficult to see for themselves all the consequences of passing such a law. As a result, we are not a member of 105th and we are joining the proposal, it seems to me, the HDZ Club, that the legislator will change the application for procedure 105th in the procedure under Article 104, so that we can get the World of Ministers' works in one small period of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11585	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's next? Mrs. Ruža Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11586	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, and I have now received information, and if we have last concluded that within three months, the Council of Ministers proposes amendments to the law, or... proposes a customs tariff law. I have now received information that the Council of Ministers has formed a commission to draft a new law, which should be submitted by 31.3. Therefore, I think even this article 104 does not need to be proposed in the truth by 31.3. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11587	I thank my colleague Sopta. I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11588	Dear colleagues, let me say by respecting the remarks of our colleagues that we are not going by 105th. I would just like to point out that last time is not going by 105th. I would just like to point out that last time it was precisely a matter of the automotive industry that was potent and an urgent answer, because then I'm going to ask myself a question and what if Folcfagen gives up on the automotive industry. I would like to point out this time, that I am to vote this out, as a reminder to the Council of Ministers, that the questions of Members on strategic issues are getting faster answers or to ask the question of the work of the Council of Ministers. For these reasons, I support the vote here for, under this Act 105, and, of course, if next time it comes, then the question should be asked, I would say trust to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11589	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11590	Well, here's what Mr. Bešlagić said is in conflict with the explanation of counterpart Hadžiahmetović. In fact, she says the proposed amendments to the customs tariff law will have no impact on the budget revenues in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not clear to me that it won't, because on 31.12, the decision to treat this area has ceased. I don't know what happened to the first and second months. I guess there were some incomes in that, or it all stopped. Also, I don't know what is meant by the fact or, it says here, given the fact that the BiH Council of Ministers is late by proposing amendments to Bosnia and Herzegovina's customs tariff. What was the deadline and the late ones? So, if he's late, here I'm curious to know how late and how long was the Council of Ministers supposed to be doing it? Secondly, to explain to me a little bit this last item in the explanation that it will not have, I underline this, no impact on the budget revenues in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11591	Thank you. Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović reporting. Here you go. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11592	Thank you. I would like to remind you that since 1998, the Council of Ministers has made temporary decisions, which are mentioned in the tariff under certain headings for industrial installation, i.e. so on. ESKADES ceilings were released from paid customs duties. So far, we have not even had such customs revenues in the budgets of entities, i.e. competent institutions. That's one thing. Secondly, I will remind you who is a careful decision analyst and the Council of Ministers conclusions one or three months ago. The Council of Ministers has decided to work urgently and rapidly on making customs tariffs with a proposal, and I know that this first draft, i.e. work is completed by the entry into force of the full entry into force of the Free Trade Treaty, which we know on 1 January 2004. But it can happen for technical and other reasons, less – we all know more and obviously you know that tariff is a complicated business and any change of tariff, especially in accordance with WTO rules etc. and all those provisions to which the Council of Ministers has committed requires an exceptional attention. I just want to remind you that this is really a matter of urgency and we've been witnesses since a month ago, perhaps even later, especially in the last month of the highlighted demands and the debates that were being held here. This Parliament, as I had a feeling, during the debate on a particular problem in the case of Wolsfagen, I must mention that this decision, or amendments to this law, does not prefer any producer, but concerns all and existing, i.e. Wolsfagen and potential producers, or those who would work on issues of auto-industry conclusion, that it is a problem of such a kind that threatens the danger of Wolsfagen leaving the investment in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11593	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, esteemed guests, I appreciate the effort that Dr Azra Hadžiahmtović made in proposing a law amending the Law on the Customs Trifia of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I agree with it that it is a rather complex business in which the Council of Commissioners may need more time, but if '98. For years, no one in this country had the need to calculate what they were getting in the budget or what they were losing, and if our zero-state budget was responsible for Wolsfagen and for everyone else coming into this country, then it would be an eldorado for what is not called strategic investment in this country. I don't mind that Wolsfagen has a contract and I honor the contract, but I also have a request that the Council of Ministers, when offering customs tariff laws, come out with economic logic and a bill. I know what happens if Wolsfagen remains in the case of such an economic situation, related to employment, it is difficult to get new jobs, but I also know that at one point the logic of things must change in the economic sense of this country. Whether it's time or someone else I don't know, but it would be on the back of something to come up with the adoption of this proposal by Dr. Hadžiahmetović, that this goes in a shortened procedure, that we hear what the Council of Ministers thinks about 58 of this problem, whether it's on the same background and what it will mean if we bring that, let's say, change and supplement the Council of Ministers' law comes with information that we've done a bad job. So, aware of the responsibility, aware of the concern the MP has expressed, I think it would be better, because it would be on the line to adopt this. I would make economic calculations, to analyse the production of cars that are concluded in the first and second phases, which would mean that they are taxed and what it would mean for BiH's budget, and what it means to be freed here for as many as six or eight years. Finally, a solution can be found that other countries in the environment will not offer Wolsfagen, therefore, a more favourable solution. But to go with a zero rate, at a time when we have problems financing the court, the prosecution, the new institutions, related to the SIP, I don't think it's a good economic reson. Is there a better solution I find it difficult to tell until I have confirmation in economic logic and calculation, unless someone's going to go with a global story? So do you know what it means to back off Wolsfagen, so do you know what it means for TAS, what it means for employees, and I'm aware of that, but we need to get the Council of Ministers to give their vision. I would pray, if there is a mood of Dr Hadžiahmetović on the line to adopt this, not on the line to fight on some arguments that did not allow us to adopt this at the next session, and until then give the Council of Ministers a chance to at least say what he thinks. If it is not on this background, and if we see that there will be more damage than benefits, I am willing to vote for this proposal, but I would like to hear the other side, or the Council of Ministers' side, we may end up on the same path. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Can we get an answer before the vote? I'd be sorry, no, you're asking me to vote. Who is to accept Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović's proposal to discuss the draft Law amending the BiH Customs Tariff Act by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, for it was, of the 34 present, for it was 20, against 13, abstention 1 and if I don't think this is the exact sum of the vote. I'm asking you to keep an eye on me. I'll count it before you give me the report. Because 10 from RS plus 4 from HDZ, that's 14 against. So please, I count both sides. This isn't a divided Parliament. My right and left side, but never mind. Let's do it again. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Who's in? I'm asking you to take care of it, because I count as much as you do. - It's 18 for what I count. Who's against it? - 13 Who Is Restraint? – 1 So from 32 – 18, for, against 13, he was abject 1. We're going to an entity. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? 59 So, from Federation 18 for, from RS 1. Let's get to the alignment. I'm sorry, we don't have a third member of the College. We will remain in the alignment procedure and Parliament will be informed in time. Ad.8. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach consensus on the proposal for Parliament's conclusion, Seade Palavrić, that the committee responsible draws up a new report on the proposal for a law establishing an el company. Energy in BiH, in accordance with Article 95(3). The Rules of Procedure of the dom of Dama and gentlemen, you have received a report from the Commission. There was no agreement in the Commission, and today we have to go with the second round of voting. Who is to adopt the proposal by Seade Palavrić, who is in favour of returning to the commission, related to the transmission of els. Energy? If you need an explanation, let's just explain a little bit. Therefore, the request, a report in the College, was not agreed on by Parliamentarian Seade Palavrić to draw up a new report on the draft law establishing a power transmission company in BiH, in accordance with Article 95(3). So these are new moments. The new moments were, we were having a debate that the House of Peoples, that our commission, that the Joint Commission had adopted part of the amendment, which is appreciated that, for which we have a written report, to do so, was simply a destruction in the law, in order to move this central operator to require large figures of money. I had, I have to say that I had a conversation with operators and regulators existing and that there were persuasions and a parliamentary debate showed that this would not be good. We in the Commission have not reached agreement, therefore, to return it to the competent ministry, together with our committees, with consultants from the international community and domestic consultants, and to see if there can be any consensus, which would not mean the return of the legal project to the beginning or would not mean the fall of the law. So let's give that law another chance. Whether to come up with a new, better proposal remains to be seen, but I think that's better than voting today for the law to fall. So it was the law in the first reading. Please, first reading. This is the law in first reading, not in second reading. So let's get back to the beginning to sit down one more time. So the point is that on the basis of new moments, once again, you try to get too much text, not too much text, but the text of a law that would not mean giving up the principles that are within the law. So, please, we have no agreement within the College, but now we'll see if we accept this proposal or we'll go to another reading and we'll get to what we're going to get. So who's to accept this proposal? Yes, that competent ministry, a new commission report to file. 60 Who's in? We're doing a better thing than walking by the wind. Who's against it? Abstained? So, of the 34 for it was 19 – versus 13, abstention 1. We're going to an entity vote. Who's against the Federation? Which one against the RS? So against RS 9, and from Federation 5. So I realize that this request has received the necessary majority and that we have accepted this conclusion by Seade Palavrić. We're crossing. We're in the second round of voting. Please follow round one and round two. Do you want me to repeat if you're expressing suspicion? It's not ten, it's nine. If he's expressing suspicion, let him vote again. Ad.9. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for Parliament's Seade that the committee in charge draws up a new report on the proposal for a law establishing an independent system transfer operator in BiH, in accordance with Article 95(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House is the same situation you know how the debate is conducted. So it's about the same situation that the competent ministry once again has the commission of both homes, experts sitting down to see if they can come up with a proposal, which would not mean giving up basic principles. So here we are just pleading. There's no argument. Let's go to the vote. Who's to support this proposal? Who's against it? Who's being held back? – 1 So it voted 34 – for 19, against 14, abstention 1. We're going to a statement on the entities. Who's against the Federation? Who's against the RS? So 5 from the Federation v, 9 from RS. I find that this conclusion has also been accepted and I ask really now to sit down and try simply to come to the law so that we can let the limb mock reading and come to a good solution. He's got everything to say. He also said that there are two only amendments that have been adopted, which mean the absence of principles and which agree with the procedure, are clearly gathering the project. I'll give you the memos and let them see what I get. By the way, I don't think it's ever a waste of our time if we want to get along. It's a waste of time if we want to, if we know in advance that we want something, we'll call the board president when he gets home. Please, you had the nerve to say that when it was time to discuss it. I don't need you. I don't talk to myself the way he votes. I beg you, since you know this is the procedure, therefore, the agreement and the vote, not the debate. The debate is over. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now do, while we are in the O.R., we will step away from the agenda, since the deputy is elected, so Deputy Secretary of Defense Marina 61 Pendeš here, I ask you to take an oath, so that the minister and the deputies will take the oath, and we will proceed. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11595	I pledge to be conscious of my duties.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11596	Respect the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11597	Respect the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11598	Full implementation of the General Framework dispute for Peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11599	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11600	Protect and promote human rights and basics, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11601	Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11602	Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to the 10th item of the agenda. Ad.10. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Anthem of BiH in the first reading I am opening the debate. You got the bill. Is there anyone to report for the hearing? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. 62 Who is it that we should accept the Amendments and Supplements Act on the BiH National Anthem in the first reading? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the BiH National Anthem was adopted unanimously in the first reading. Ad.11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the coat of arms of BiH, in the first reading of the bill you received in time. Interpreting on time, too. Report as well. I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering the phone. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to accept the Amendments and Supplements Act on the coat of arms of BiH in the first reading? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that, too, we unanimously accepted the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the coat of arms of BiH in the first reading. Ad.12. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag of BiH at the beginning of reading is about the law of the same set. So, you got it on time and interpretation on time. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to accept the Amendments and Supplements Act on the flag of BiH in the first reading? Who's against it? Abstained? There's no one here. I also find that we unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of BiH in the first reading. Ad.13. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the BiH Law in the first reading of the Law you received in time, I hope you read. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11603	Comrades and colleagues, gentlemen chairman, it seems we are in a recent similar situation around some laws. Namely, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as a competent commission, and I am not speaking in this case on its behalf, although in some way, on the basis of the report I am authorised to do so, but I think the 63 report is clear, delivered my report and, compared to the initial proposal, the Council of Ministers has made in some segments to say the corrections that significantly disrupt, if they can use that word, or change the concept of the law. I am a member of this Parliament, using my right and as an MP, which is not adopted at the Constitutional-Legal Commission, and also the right to dispute amendments by the competent commission, and I have come out, in fact, to advocate that the proposal for a law return to those initial positions where it was founded by the Proposer, therefore, the Council of Ministers. It is generally said when it comes to the concept that the Council of Ministers has been incorporated into the text of amendments to the Bill's proposal to delete, or deleted, the rotation of this Advocate and his deputy, I think it is necessary to support this initial idea, because indeed, in this institution, which is in some way a state attorney, so to speak, where the profession is, etc. very important, and where there is also other laws that apply the obligations of some kind, of course coordination, co-operation, etc. that the principle of rotation of the Advocates and his deputies is eliminated, i.e. not to return to the proposal of this Act. That's why I've also proposed an amendment that returns to its starting position, so there's no rotational principle. Otherwise, if, therefore, it were kept on this principle, I'm not talking about the amendment, but I'm talking about principles, then, in my opinion, the law that was proposed would not be acceptable. Therefore, speaking of the principles of this law, I think that if the amendments that I have proposed were not adopted, I personally would not be able to support the principles on which the amendment and addition on the Ombudsman is supported. Therefore, it might make sense, although it is now, perhaps it is procedurally a little bit problematic, if they take into account the attached amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, then the principles of the law are not acceptable, and if the solution were to be prejudged and perhaps the intention to accept the amendment, specifically mine, although we have not yet arrived at the amendment phase, then it would make sense to support these principles. That is why I would like, in fact, the legislator, the Council of Ministers, and if they are now disposing by law, so to speak, to dispose this Parliament, i.e. its competent commission is a little more obvious about this, namely to pay more attention to the basic concept of this Council of Ministers and, significantly, a substantially modified concept through the amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Otherwise, of course, I must mention this time with due attention and respect for the opinions of my colleagues from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, who I am a member of, and also chairing this approach in no way devalues, so as to say their right to vote on the Commission as they voted, of course not my right to refer to the results of such statements through, the possible introduction of new amendments. Therefore, the Commission has done its job properly, legally looking at it, can essentially question the principles on which the law is based. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11604	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. I agree, and I appreciate the MP's efforts to define the amendments, but the amendments are in phase two. We are now voting on principles, the original principles of law, and it is not a problem if each party considers that the text of Law 64 stands down and votes against the law, it is not disputed. That's why I think we should vote on the princesses today. So that's my proposal, and it would be good if the club presidents, if they had a difference this time they used and sat down together to find further arguments and see how to bring attitudes through amendments in the amendment phase. So I appreciate that you've defined the amendments. It's not a question of that. I got it. Who's next? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it that we should accept the Amendments and Supplements Act in the first reading? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Ad.14. Proposal for a conclusion on the need to draw up codes with single nomo-technical rules for the making of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina You received this proposal. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Ćeman answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11605	Thank you very much. This time on behalf of the Proposer, but the Proposer is the Constitutional and Legal Commission. And you are the witnesses yourself, I would not repeat what is stated in the proposal of the conclusion as the reason why we propose making one such document, but only to say, indeed, there is a lot of justification for accessing one document, as it will be called whether the code of the single rules of norming or otherwise, may remain, and you have seen in the proposal a conclusion for a working group that would prepare this document and then, of course, deliver it, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, let it remain a secret working group, but in the truth, there is a need for one such work to be done to introduce more order in a novelty, which is not merely a formal nature, but is very important sometimes for the essential things that we decide, so that we most strongly recommend, i.e.e. to accept one such a conclusion and we would do so together with another home, i.e.a.e.e. the House of the people and its respective committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11606	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Vinko Zorić answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11607	I have read this conclusion and, under point 2 of the last row, writes the question of lecturing in BiH institutions, in order to improve the text and the terminology of three official language versions of the text. First of all, this sentence is completely unspeakable and illiterate. There are no three official language versions of the text. There are three official languages. But it'll never become clear to Mr. Ćeman because he doesn't want to. So, I, if this proposal remains, and the HDZ Club will not support this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11608	I thank my colleague, Zoruć. I think it makes sense this suggestion and I don't think anyone has a clue. I don't think Mr. Ćeman has that intention, too, but if he wants a word, please. I think we can get out of this as Zorić suggests.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11609	A little while ago, a chairman of the ad-hok commission was saying that it was a commission position, not his personal or at least not, and I could say this isn't mine right now, this is us together unanimously, etc. She missed this one, to say the shade. It's not even my idea to challenge the existence of the language of the constituent peoples here. My efforts are something else to find more rational solutions to the application of such rights, and I am allowing even such sharp qualifications and for my efforts, but I want to say, and of course, the Commission did not have such a message in mind when it may have used such a reckless formulation. I respect and we will try in this document to, well, here's a reason to make one correct document that will remove any possible fears and dilemmas. Therefore, consider this as our failure, and no intention that would have precisely this meaning that you suspected.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11610	I thank my colleague Ćeman for his understanding and I think this is good with this repair, I think this is a text that we can support. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11611	Since Mr. Ćeman accepted this, and it really is what he said, I think we should define that, so that we know what it says in this conclusion. Well, here, I'm going to offer my humble help to be the terminology of the text in three official languages, so that's what that text is. So termologically deliver the text in three official languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11612	Okay. We agree. You've heard, therefore, a stenogram exists. Is there anyone else to answer for? I'm closing the debate. We are going to a plea with what Mr. Novaković has proposed to change. 66 Who is it to accept the proposal for a conclusion on the need to draw up codes with single no-technical rules for the making of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina? It's not pyrotechnic, it's nomo-technical. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. We unanimously accepted the proposal for a conclusion on the need to draw up a code of single nomo-technical rules for the making of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ad.15. The interim report from the investigation committee on the expenditure of the Donor's funds, Dama and gentlemen, you've received a provisional report, read, open the debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to accept the interim report. Who's in? It's been spent, thank Bog. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I agree that we unanimously accepted the Commission's Interim Report to determine the spending of donor funds. Ad.16. As we all advocate European standards, I hope there will be no debate here, then we will accept the ratification of this antidote. Is there a need for a debate? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to give consent to ratify the Sixth Progokola on the privileges and immunities of the Council of Europe? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify the Sixth Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe. Dear fellow MPs, I only want to give you one brief piece of information. This is the final meeting of the Representative Council in this room. The white room has been restored. We'll have the next session in an O.R. We'll have good conditions. The first plenary session of both homes and the opening of the Hall will be held on Monday 22nd, and for a new session of the Representative's Council in time you will receive the agenda and schedule of the meeting. Wait a minute. Mr. Ćeman had a need to announce. We'll see what's going on. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11613	Here's the thing. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is scheduled after this session is completed. I ask the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to stay here in this room to at least do that part of the job, which concerns the constitutional and legal basis of a number of laws. Thank you very much for letting me say this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-15-0.u11614	I'm hanging in there. I'll see you alive and well. The session ended at 4:15 p.m.
