ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3351	Dear delegates, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, all present I welcome you and open the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 13 delegates present at today's session, of which 4 delegates from the Bosniak people, 5 delegates from the Croatian people and 4 delegates from the Serb people. We expect Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija to arrive, so we expect him to join today's work at this session. Dear colleagues, before I move to the agenda, I would like to announce that on the basis of Article 4(1) of the first indent (a) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Articles 70, 2nd and 8th of the Amendments to the Constitution of Republika Srpska and Articles 161 and 165, paragraphs 2. Republika Srpska National Assembly's "Official Messenger of Republika Srpska" No. 5001, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska held on July 27th 2004, decided to appoint Mr. Đok Pajić as delegate to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina instead of Mr. Zoran Spasojević. In accordance with Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly assume the duty of giving a solemn statement. I ask Mr. Đoka Pajić to approach and make a solemn statement. You will repeat with me the words spoken.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3352	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3353	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3354	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3355	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3356	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3357	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3358	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3359	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3360	Congratulations, colleague Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3361	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3362	hajati on, here's a minute break to congratulate Mr. Pajić. I would like to announce to you honourable fellow delegates that we have been removed from the agenda that you received in the call for a session of each item of the agenda, because they have not been discussed at the House of Representatives, and as you know, the conclusion of the College of the House of Peoples is that they are not going to consider the law before the House of Representatives. So for the 28th session, I propose the following amended DN E V N I R E D: 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. A record from the 27th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the efforts of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Law on Defence, 3 4. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency pursuant to an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 5. Request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Payments in a Single Account and the distribution of revenue by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 6. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law on the financing of BiH institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 7. “ The Bible’s Viewpoint, ” 5 / 8 Proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment - first reading, 9. Proposal for a law on general product safety - first reading 10. Proposed pardon law - first reading, 11. Proposal for a seed law and fruit material of Bosnia and Herzegovina's agricultural plants – first reading, 12. Proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers – first reading, 13. Proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of Bosnia and Herzegovina – first reading, 14. Proposal for a law on supervision of the Bosnia and Herzegovina market – first reading, 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina – First reading, 16. Proposal for a law on the phytosanitary means of Bosnia and Herzegovina – first reading, 17. Proposal for a law on the establishment and method of reconciliation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal debt – first reading, 18. Proposal for a law on the Red Cross Society/Cross of Bosnia and Herzegovina – first reading, 19. Proposal for a Value Added Tax Act (DV) – first reading, 20. Proposed legislation on BiH customs policy – first reading, 21. Law on the State Border Service — First Reading, 22. Proposal for a law on missing persons in BiH – first reading, 23. Proposal for a law on bottled drinking waters of BiH – first reading, 24. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH-First Reading, 25. The BiH Election Commission's report on the financing of the General Elections. municipal elections, not general elections in 2004, 26. Appointment of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) on the Privileges and Immunities of the OPCW, and on this proposal we have received another proposal from the head of the Serbian delegates' Club, Mr. Šiljegović, to add another item of the agenda, which would be 28. The appointment of a member of the Parliamentary Commission for the Control of FOS and the proposal is for it to be our new delegate Pajić Đoko instead of Nadet Radović. 4 I am opening a debate on a draft agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? I have Mr. Genjac's application.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3363	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, we have one conclusion from the College that, as a rule, some chronology of the adoption of laws between these two homes is respected and that, as a rule, the procedure after the House of Representatives is conducted in the House of Peoples. However, I do not think that the reason for removing some points from the agenda is the conclusion that there may be a reason for the following arguments. The first number of laws we have ended in a commission phase at our home and they are there in their procedure which is independent, autonomous, and there is no reason why these laws should not be held today at a session with the possibility that, for certain reasons, the House of Representatives at some stage of a certain aspect of change, but it does not affect the House of Peoples, because we have completed the commission and the amendment phase and have obtained the conditions for these laws to be considered today. The second thing, I think, first of all, is a series of laws such as the Proposal for a Law on Food, the Law on Seeds and Fruit Materials, mineral fertilisers, the protection of new varieties, plants, market surveillance in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on travel documents, further the Proposal for a Law on the Control and Control of the Crossing of the State Border, where we have indeed completed this phase on the basis of the action of the amendments to the law. I think that the business procedure and the business individuality of this home should be fully respected, and that is why I suggest that these laws be on the agenda today, because I don't see any reason not to be on the agenda. So, I suggest adding to the agenda that there be a proposal for a food law, first reading, sorry, okay, proposal for a seed law and fruit material, okay. Namely, I'm the new agenda I got right now and I haven't really been able to compare it all. So, the proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers and he's, okay. Proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of plants and he's fine. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents for BiH, and he is fine. Proposal for a law on control and control of the crossing of the state border. I didn't see him. So, I suggest there be a proposal for a law on state border control and control, an addition to the agenda. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of BiH has been removed because the commission has sent a request to the College and I fully respect it because it is the issue of this home. So I propose a supplement with this law. How much I've been able to compare the lists. And secondly, we have one series of laws that the Council of Ministers has sent to the Parliamentary Assembly to consider under the urgent procedure of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to amendments and additions to the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, amendments and additions to the Law on the Proposal of the Law on the Prosecutors of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to the use of evidence both from the same institutions and from the Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Witnesses. These laws, therefore these laws, were today a procedural statement by the House of Nations to declare whether the adoption of those laws was adopted by Article 100. Respecting the circumstance that the House of Representatives has probably delayed or in some way failed to satisfy this request, respecting this will of the House of Representatives, but respecting the fact that it is extremely important laws whose adoption is needed as soon as possible, I propose that we declare these laws in a way that they are considered not by an urgent procedure, but by a shortened procedure. This is the article where the deadlines for the work of individual committees are shortened, because at this point we can't by article 100 because the House of Representatives didn't accept that procedure. But I think that today we could quite rationally declare that these laws are adopted by a shortened procedure, adopted and considered by a reduced procedure. So my proposal is that these five, six, five law-reading laws be considered by procedure shortened and that the draft law on control and control of the state border is complemented for the reason that the commission phase is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3364	Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3365	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, others present, I do not tend to discuss the agenda, but I have one question that may be more professional in nature, so we better consider it now than to have problems afterwards. According to that previously delivered agenda, so not today, but earlier, where there were 35 points of the agenda we have these four laws from point 5 to point 8. The 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th proposals for the laws of the Council of Ministers, which we have accepted to consider under Article 100. In my understanding, these are mandatory points of the agenda, and I'm not sure how we're going to go with the procedure if we're taking that off now, if we've adopted this point in the previous session before, we're going to consider this point according to this procedure. So, please, if we've adopted, and as far as I can remember, we've adopted a procedure on these four laws. We didn't adopt. All right. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3366	Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. If it's according to the Rules of Procedure, we'll get to the bottom of the agenda. Boško Šiljegović's first proposal, hence the appointment of a new member of the Parliamentary Commission. Prepare to vote. You can vote now. 13 for one abstention. I understand that Mr. Šiljegović's proposal was implemented in the agenda. Now we have a proposal from Mr. Genjac. I'm opening a vote. Six for, three abstentions, three against. I understand Mr. Genjac's proposal has passed. Since it doesn't take an entity majority here because this isn't the final decision, I realize this agenda has passed and I have to take a break to make a new draft agenda. Time out for 15 minutes. Delegates, dear guests, representatives of public information funds, here are the conditions for us to continue working on this session today. [[PAUZA]] They were done in a technical sense this revision of the agenda, so what we've already spoken about, so we can now move to the first item of the agenda that's A.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions At today's session, until today's session, by the beginning of today's session, colleagues Branislav Limov, Osman Brka and Hilmo Neimarlija received answers to their delegate questions. I ask delegates, of course, other than Mr. Neimarlija, are they satisfied with their answers that they have received? Mr. Limov, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3367	Thank you very much. Sir, the Honorable President, fellow envoys, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, respected representatives of the international community and the media, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you all together and, very briefly, look back at the response I received from the Council of Ministers. 7 My question was – Whether and what, when and how the Council of Ministers of BiH plans to undertake with the aim of establishing a specialised state institution for the accommodation and treatment of persons with severe mental difficulties that continued medical psychiatric supervision is medically and socially necessary and binding. The answer I got was white that it wasn't really answered my question. Bringing the problem only to persons who have been convicted because of the crimes committed is a measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment for me that is unacceptable so much more than the Council of Ministers, it is evident from this role in solving such a detected problem practically and not seeing, and the description of the real situation is incomplete and even the Council of Ministers has not received a permanent, resorient ministry from the Republic of Srspka in connection with the psychiatric hospital on Sokoc. From the findings of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture relating to the Department of Forensics, which I spoke of on one or two occasions earlier, and also from a special report by the Federal Ombudsmans for Human Rights, which was made up early this year, it is evident that the rights of psychobolists in this institution are being violated. Answering my question to the Council of Ministers in conclusion, I must quote this part -- it is necessary for the resolution entity ministries to reach agreement on resolving this problem, or for a procedure for the establishment of a single health institution for the accommodation of persons who have been given a measure of security of mandatory psychiatric treatment for the needs of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Reading complete. So I ask the question: Who will initiate the procedure rather than the Council of Ministers? The goal of asking my question is to give the Council of Ministers a cause for such action. This is how it turns out that the Council of Ministers is acting as a football player instead of being the lead player. So I'm not happy with this kind of response and I want to directly answer whether they're planning to, or not planning to work on building a state-owned institution like this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3368	I thank my colleague Limov. So he explicitly pleaded not to be satisfied with the Council of Ministers' response. Mr. brkati, will you plead?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3369	I thank you, and I welcome you not to list, not to take much time. 8 I have received the answer and indeed have received a very comprehensive answer to my question and services thank you in this regard. But with the end of the answer, I can't agree in principle, and that's why I'm going to bring it out here, but what's there? In fact, it was proven to be what I asked you to do. Thank God, it wasn't with tragic consequences, but here it says this - that no action will be taken before the competent authorities because they were minors. I don't understand it at all. As far as I know about minors, there's someone who answers. If they're giving birth, if they're guardians, if they are. So minors literally after what I've got to answer can do whatever they want and do. I can't answer anything, and no one's answering for their actions. By part of the answer, I'm not satisfied. I think someone should answer for that, though. I repeat again I've got a good, comprehensive answer, everything that's happened has been explained, but the end of the answer to me is literally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3370	I thank my colleague, Brk, and I find that he is partially satisfied with the answer, right? Or partially dissatisfied. Okay. Since Mr. Neimarlija, here's the information I got that he came here to the building, but he's still missing, we'll leave for the next session to declare whether he's satisfied with the answer he's received to his asked delegate question. Now I ask you, are there any new delegate questions? Mr Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3371	Thank you, Mr. President. I will, of course, take advantage of the occasion and ask three parliamentary issues that are interrelated, concerning the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not going to comment specifically on them, given that these issues have been updated in public over the last few days, and I'm going to try to make them clear. 1. Is there Bosnia and Herzegovina and of which state bodies and when a platform for negotiations with the Republic of Croatia and the National Community of Serbia-Montenegro on the definition of a grace line between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the designated neighbouring countries? 2. What are the key positions of neighbouring countries on the one hand, and what are our views on the other about possible disputed points of the state border, and at what stage are the negotiations said? 3. Who are the negotiators on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, what and until when is their mandate and what and when has the state body of Bosnia and Herzegovina appointed them? Thank you very much. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3372	I thank my colleague Limov. I give my word to my colleague Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3373	Mr. President, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, the international community, my question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers and to the Council of Ministers - What is the number of employees and what is the national structure of employees, especially journalists in public broadcasters in Bosnia and Herzegovina, BHTV, RTRS and FTV? So a radio television station in BiH financed from a TV tax. One clarification – under public TV services in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I mean radio television stations in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are funded from the funds collected from the RTV tax. This question, just a short, two sentences, where I now find it very interesting and current, because we have these days in the parliamentary procedure of two laws that regulate their area. So the Law on the Public Television System and TV Services. And asked also that the answer be in a business signed deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3374	I thank my colleague Jukić. He's a friend of brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3375	I have one question for the Presidency and the Council of Ministers. It is next - What are they doing and what will be done by the competent state authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Presidency and the Council of Ministers to prevent the action of individuals from coming into this country and bring unrest and disperse national, religious and any other inter-human hatred? I think this country has to find instruments to defend itself from such. I also ask the authorities – what have they done in a specific case that took place on the premises of a smaller Bosnian Herzegovina entity in a highly positioned Serbia-Montenegro politician? That's why I'm asking for a quick response from the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3376	I thank my colleague, Brk. I don't see any more reports and I'm closing this agenda item. 10 The next item, or second item of the agenda of today’s session, is Ad.2. A record from last 27th session of the House of Peoples who answer for a word? I don't see any reports. So I'm opening a vote. You can vote now. 13 for one abstention. I understand that the minutes of the 27th session have been adopted. Third item of the agenda A.3. A report by the Joint Commission on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Law on Law of Law has been given to you by the Joint Commission. Ninety-five. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both homes. The House of Representatives adopted the report at the 43rd session held on 7 September 2004. I don't need anything anymore. We can approach the vote. I'm sorry. I see a fellow Filipović. I wasn't watching the display. Here's a colleague of Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3377	Thank you very much for your word. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament and others present only to report to you, so you remember that on 29.6. this House has rejected a report that came to us from the Joint Commission from the reasons that I had elaborated in the last session, as representatives of this joint committee from the House of Peoples did not participate in the drafting of this report. He respected the complaint on the second part of the Joint Commission and the chairman of the Commission called on the committee on 28 July where we were able to reach agreement on amendments to this law and on this one controversial amendment that was not agreed on by the Joint Commission. That is why the Joint Commission or the Commission is proposing to this House to accept the report of this Joint Commission, which will also be adopted by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3378	I thank the esteemed president of our constitutional and legal commission, Mr Filipović, and I propose that we make a statement by voting on this report. 11 So I'm opening the vote. You can vote. 13 for, 1 against. I repeat the vote. You can vote now. I find unanimously that the report has been adopted so all 14 is for. The fourth item of the agenda is Add.4. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 100(2) The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on a request for the Law to be considered in accordance with this Article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. The House of Representatives passed this law by emergency procedure, and here's the wrong information. So I'm opening a debate. Nothing, since no one applied for a hearing, wanted to discuss it, I'm asking who's in order for the law to be considered under Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure? I'm opening a vote. 5 for, 2 abstentions, 4 against. Since there is no entity majority, it has to go to the Kolegijum's compliance with the Rules of Procedure. We move to the next item of the agenda, so the Kolegijum will do its part of the work related to the previous law, which is Ad.5. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone picking up? I don't see any reports. I'm opening a vote. Who is to be considered in accordance with Article 100(2) of the Law? Rules of Procedure? I'm opening a vote. So we have 7 for, 2 abstentions and 5 against. There's no entity majority. This law is going to be agreed upon. 12 Moving to the next item of the agenda, that is Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? Niko. So we can approach the vote. Who is to be considered in accordance with Article 100(2) of the Law? Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a vote. 7 for, 1 abstention, 6 against. No entity, no entity majority, so alignment. The seventh item of the agenda Ad.7. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the Suspension of Cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the use of evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? I don't see any reports. So I'm opening a vote. 7 for, 3 abstentions, 4 against. Again, this law goes as before to the alignment because we do not have an entity majority. Moving to the next eighth point of the Ad.8. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Witness Protection Act under threat and to the threatened witnesses under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. ISaću open the vote. Who is to be considered in accordance with Article 100(2) of the Law? Rules of Procedure. Open vote. 7 for, 1 abstention, 6 against. It's a match. And this law will go to the Kolegijum's consent. 13 We move to the ninth point of the Ad.9 agenda. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency pursuant to an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure shall be discussed, therefore, whether the Law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the Law at their 43rd session, held on 7 September 2004. Who's answering for a word? I don't see any reports. Who is it that the Law is being considered in accordance with Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I'm opening a vote. Unanimity, 14 for. The requirement for the law to be considered by a shortened procedure has been adopted. The tenth item of the agenda, Add.10. Request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Payments in a Single Account and the distribution of revenue by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure shall be held to see whether the Law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the Law at the 43rd session held on 7 September 2004. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. Who is for the Law to be considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I'm opening a vote. Unanimity, 14 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that the requirement for the law to be considered by a reduced procedure has been adopted. 11th Point of the Agenda, Ad.11. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law on the financing of BiH institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure shall be discussed, therefore, whether the Law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to cut deadlines to discuss the law at their 43rd session, held on 7 September 2004. I'm opening a debate. No Niko answered for the word. Who is for the Law to be considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? 14 I'm opening the vote. Unanimity, 14 for, no one against, no one abstention. The 12th point of today's agenda, Ad.12. Proposal for a food law - first reading This is the first reading of the Law by article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity in the principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the Law in the first and second readings at the 42nd session. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Čengić. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3379	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, remained present at its 23rd session of the Committee on Foreign Trade Policy discussed the proposal for a food law delivered by the Council of Ministers. As you said, this law was specifically considered by the House of Representatives. There were no amendments. There have been no amendments to our commission, but the law concerns very important issues of the protection of human life and health, consumer interest and protection of animal and plant health that participate in the production of human food in any way. Then, the law was established in a way that meets fully European standards, it is very modern. A particularly interesting part of the law that speaks of genetically modified organisms that come into the composition of genetically modified food and food and the way Bosnia and Herzegovina will react if such a type of organism or food appears, or how the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina will react if someone in Bosnia and Herzegovina wants to place such organisms on the market. The principle of follow-up is then introduced, i.e. the ability to determine where some food comes from in case of a problem, in order to react, the way in which certain food can be checked, controlled or possibly stopped in storage or even withdrawn from the market. Finally, this law establishes an agency that will take care of food quality control, including its Scientific Committee, to assist in the work of the Agency. Anyway, I think it's a very important law. I have to say, which may be a little odd, until this time of '96. In the years none of the two entities have any law that treats this matter, but the law that existed in the former state was also passed in '88 and in a number of things it was practically out of date, given the fact that they appeared, a number of new technologies appeared, new knowledge, these genetically modified organisms, so on and food etc. 15 In this sense, the law is therefore high standards within Bosnia and Herzegovina, but of course it will cause one need not only to set up an agency, but rather to organise extremely well within Bosnia and Herzegovina buildings of the institutes, laboratories, so to approve authorised entities that will issue food certificates for inspectors to control, etc. In my opinion, this is not only the law of this set of laws which, which are 40 laws according to the European Commission, but this is a really important law which in some ways begins to work in this country will provide more than enough to tell security and tranquility to all those who use food, whether domestic or foreign origin they import. In this respect, the Commission proposes to this House to adopt this law and its principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3380	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Mr. Pajić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3381	Dear Presidency, fellow delegates, honored guests, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you all together. I'd just like one note. I agree that such a law is essentially good, complete and that a law like this is needed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I have one principled remark which is why I couldn't support this right now. I would also like to see the future of today so that, in future, materials, laws and everything else, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, we receive in the language and letter of the people, all three peoples. This law I got, I don't know what it's like with the others, it's in a Cyrillic letter, but it's not in Serbian. That's a principled reason why I couldn't vote for this kind of variant this time, and I'd be held back. So once again I appeal to everyone to respect the Rules of Procedure and to get the materials in languages and letters as regulated.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3382	I thank my colleague Spajić. I don't see any more requests for discussion. So who's in favor of adopting the law in the first reading? I'm opening a vote. 12 for one abstention. How, there's 14 of us who didn't vote. I appeal to all delegates who are in the O.R. in their place to vote. So I find that the law was adopted in the first reading. 16 I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. Since we've seen if it's the Commission's report. The Commission adopted the draft law with technical amendments which are identical to the amendments in the text of the Law adopted at the House of Representatives. Let me remind you. The second reading therefore discusses amendments and votes on the law, in this case there was no amendment. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. We're voting on the law. I'm opening a vote. 12 for one abstention. I find that the Law was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. We're going to the thirteenth agenda, that's Ad.13. Proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment - first reading This is the first reading, so under Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law is based. The House of Representatives passed the Law in the first and second readings at the 42nd session with technical corrections. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3383	Therefore, this law lays down technically, namely that all products that appear are placed on the market in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether domestic or foreign, have to meet certain technical standards. These technically meet the international technical standards in force in Europe, and in this sense it will be necessary for the current existing standards to be decided by the Council of Ministers for compensation, hence existing standards, i.e. existing products to have such compliance with the technical compliance of standards, and future products, when the Law enters into force, will particularly have to meet these standards from the very beginning. In this regard, therefore, this is one law that regulates the issue of technical requirements and technical standards for all products, regardless of the purpose and the Commission, since there have been no amendments to this law simply accepts that it suggests this home that the Law be adopted in the text as proposed. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3384	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Niko one ever applied for a discussion on this agenda. So there are conditions to open the vote. Who is for the law to be adopted in the first reading? I'm opening a vote. 13 for, no one against, no one abstention. The law in the first reading was passed. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You've received a report from the committee responsible. The Commission adopted the proposal for a law with technical corrections identical to those in the text of the Law adopted in the House of Representatives. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Law. There was no amendment in this case. Is anyone picking up? I don't see any reports. So we're voting on the law. Which is for the adoption of the law. Open vote. 13 For, no one against, no abstentioned law was adopted in the same text as at the House of Representatives. The 14th point of the agenda, Ad.14. Proposal for a law on general product safety - first reading This is the first reading of the law. Article 90 first calls for discussion on the necessity of the principles on which the Law is based. The representative dmo passed the Law in the first and second readings at the 42nd session. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3385	And this law was discussed by the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy at its 28th session. The law regulates the general safety of products and all products that can appear on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market. In particular, the obligations of manufacturers and distributors to notify consumers of the standards and characteristics of their products and to potentially warn about the possible adverse consequences of use or the possible consequences of use, and as regards law enforcement, the competent foreign trade and economic relations ministry at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the relevant entity ministries are being implemented. 18 Since this law complements the previous law and, in some ways, the Food Act, this is one whole of consumer protection against products that can be obtained on the market of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of whether domestic or foreign origin, the Commission considers that this bill should be adopted and there was no amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3386	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Niko one signed up for the discussion. So I'm opening a vote. Who's in favor of the law being adopted in the first reading. Open vote. Unanimity, 12 for, no one against, no one abstention. Someone didn't vote again. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You've received a report from the committee responsible. I can't rule out Mr. Čengić. It's not him, it's him. So we received a report from the Commission. The Commission adopted the draft law with technical corrections that are identical to the amendments in the text of the law adopted at the House of Representatives. In the second reading, it is for your reminder that the debate on amendments is being held and votes on the law. There was no amendment. Is anyone picking up? I don't see any reports. So we're voting on the law. I'm opening a vote. 13 for, no one against, no one abstention. So I find that the law is adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. We're going to the next item on the agenda. That's Ad.15. Proposed pardon law - first reading We have it in first reading. Under Article 90 is the first debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law is based. The House of Representatives passed the Law in the first and second readings at the 42nd session with four amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Ilija Vilipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3387	Thank you very much for your word. Mr Chairman, fellow MPs and others present in connection with this draft pardon law, I would like to say, as well as on the following laws under paragraphs 16, 17 and 18 that I am not reporting again, the Constitutional and Legal 19 Commission has considered the draft laws, there has been no amendment to any of these laws until point 18 and proposes to this House to accept in the text as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3388	Thank you. So I don't see any reported debaters. Who's in favour of the law being passed in the first reading. I'm opening a vote. 13 for, 1 abstention, I find that the law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You've received a report from the committee in charge, so now there's a debate on amendments and there's a vote on the law. We have Mr. Pamuk's amendments. You've all got them, I hope on your desks. Is anyone picking up? I don't see any reports. So we're voting on the law. I'm sorry, we vote on the amendments first. The amendment and Mr. Pamuk. So I'm opening a vote for the amendment and Mr. Pamuk, open. Unanimity, 14 for. Amendment II to Mr Pamuk. I'm opening a vote. 13 in, 1 in, shut up. So I'm saying Amendment II has been adopted. Amendment III to Mr Pamuk. I'm opening a vote. Unanimously, I find Mr. Pamuk's third amendment has been adopted and we have Mr. Pamuk's amendment IV. So you can vote. Unanimity. Congratulations, fellow Pamuk. We now plead, therefore, to the law with the amendments, of course, to those which we have now adopted. So you can approach the vote, who's in favour of the amendment law. I find that the law has been passed in the same text as the House of Representatives. 20 point 16 of the agenda, Add.16. The proposal for a seed law and fruit material of BiH's agricultural plants, the first reading Under Article 90 discusses the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first and second readings at the 42nd session with one amendment. I'm opening a debate. I hope you don't want the amendment to invest the Brk. So no one signed up for the hearing. Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3389	I can't believe someone here wrote fruity material of agricultural plants. And what kind of plant in the world isn't agricultural. The second is a warlord, the second is a vegetable, the second is a fruit tree, but all the agricultural plants are my people. Well, it's all agriculture, so don't write funny things here. This is ridiculous, every plant is agricultural, it's not in a world that isn't. The second is either a rat or a fruit or a vegetable, not a florist's note, which is why I intervene or it's not translated well.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3390	Okay. Agricultural plants. All right, no more reports. So, I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Who's in it for the law to be passed in the first reading? I'm opening a vote. I find that the law was passed in the first reading, 13.1 Mr. brkati despite Mr. Brk's discussion we passed this law in the first reading. So it's adopted. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. We have a report from the committee in charge. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There was no amendment. I'm opening a debate. So we don't have any reports. I'm opening a vote. This law has been passed, but we have one note. Since the law in homes has been adopted in a different text, we should appoint members for the Joint Commission for Text Coordination. I'm asking the club chiefs to name, to propose board members in front of each club, one is whether. 21 The Hrvat club, Mr Tomislav Limov, the Bošnjak klub, so the club chiefs proposed to Mr Radovanović, Limov and Mr Genjac. Who's in? Open vote. 15, for the first time, 15 delegates joined the vote today and everyone in favour. We're going to the 17th point, Ad.17. The proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers, first reading So this is the first reading of the law, according to Article 90, there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings at the 42nd session. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Pajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3392	I'm just saying again, I won't be held back because the materials are now seen, I checked before I got that law, so I didn't even get a chance to look at it, so just so I know why I'm being held back.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3393	I don't know what the reasons are, probably technical, but you have your right, of course you can vote on your conscience. So, since we don't have any more applications, I'm opening the vote. Who's in order for the law to be passed in the first reading? Now you can approach the vote. 14 for, 1 abstention. I find that the law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. We've received a report from the committee in charge. There is now a debate on amendments and votes on the law but there has been no amendment in this case. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. We're voting on the law. I'm opening a vote. Unanimity, not pard 14 for 1 abstention. I find that the law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives. 22 Before we move on to the next point, there were suggestions about this break on a regular basis, so here, if you agree, maybe we'll make it now. Here's the Kolegijum so it's unanimous for a break. I'm taking a break for lunch by 3:00. Delegates, here we continue today's session, please don't praise, there's Mr. Čengić, we have in the quorum room and we continue to work. [[PAUZA]] We've reached the 18th point of today's agenda, that's Ad.18. Proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of BiH, first reading It is therefore under Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first and second readings at their 42nd session. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? I don't see any reports. Who is for this law to be adopted in the first reading? I'm opening a vote. I find the law was adopted unanimously in the first reading. So 13 for. And I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You've received a report from the committee responsible. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There was no amendment to this law. Is anyone picking up? I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. So, the conditions are to vote on the law. Who's for the adoption of this law? I'm opening a vote. 14 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that the law has been passed in the same text as the House of Representatives of our Parliament. Point 19 of the agenda, Ad.19. Proposal for a law on supervision of the BiH market, first reading So it is in accordance with Article 90. Rules of Procedure. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings at the 42nd session. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Čengić, come in. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3394	At its 23rd session, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy discussed the proposal for this law. The law concerns the establishment of general principles and the establishment of a market surveillance system, as well as the organisation and functioning, that is to say to monitor the determination of products placed on the market or use. The supervision is carried out by the competent authorities and a special monitoring agency for the BiH market is established for the purpose of carrying out this surveillance. This agency has its own principles clearly established. It is about, the text itself has been established as in several transitionals, a number of technical errors have been identified, so we have suggested in our report that they be adopted as well. Otherwise, the Commission believes that the law needs to be adopted. Since there were no amendments to this law, we think it should be adopted in this text in both readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3395	I thank Mr. Čengić. I don't see any more reports. And I apologize, colleague Jukić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3396	Oh, here, I'll only limit myself to one or two articles of this law. In the commission's work, I also talked a little bit about these articles, which is 11 and 12, especially 12, where it is said about the establishment of the Agency for Market Surveillance and in Article 12 of the Agency's management and management and responsibility. Namely, pay attention to the solution or text under point 2 and where it says that the Director, Deputy Director of the Agency would appoint the Council of Ministers for the period etc. which is right and point 3. Director, Deputy Director and Assistant Director, cannot be of the order of the same constituent people in BiH. I don't know if this provision is in line with the law here, because we know that the State Service Act provides that the assistants are civil servants and the question is whether this provision, can't be of the same order, is in line with this law. I do not think so, and yet I understand what the Proposer has been doing to satisfy anything in this third paragraph of this article. So he wanted to meet the principle that in all the management structures, according to the constitutional provisions, all three peoples were represented by the Constitution. However, I believe that the solution here is not inconclusive, that it is not in line with the administrative system of our country, therefore, and the Constitution, or other laws, is not in conformity. I don't have a concrete solution. We talked about this a little yesterday at the club. We were thinking that it would be good, and if the matter of procedure here, however, I think it's more important that we do something good and quality and remove it if possible, than that we get very specific about the procedure, so we thought that instead of the assistant director, we could put the chairman of the board of directors here. However, as far as I can see, again in this law, it is not envisaged, it does not define at all the Agency's board of directors and I do not understand how the Agency will exist and work, again 24 not in accordance with other laws, that there can be an independent organisation without a board of directors. Just to be run by the director and vice director. Well, here, and if I know the fact that this was adopted in the House of Representatives without amendments, but I don't think this solution is complete and not consistent and is not in line with other solutions and other relevant laws in BiH. And, here, I will repeat, I have no solutions either this time, the only possible solution is to call on the competent commission to make up a new report, if you want to find a solution and then to install a solution that will be quality, in accordance with all other relevant laws, which are in force in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3397	I thank my colleague Jukić. Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3398	...the question we talked about on the committee and we noticed that this was really one rare case. We had several laws establishing administrations or agencies and, as a rule, there was a slightly different formulation, says the Director, Deputy Director and Secretary cannot be from the same people. This is where the ministerial assistants were put. That, in my memory, is now the only case of that kind, when it comes to the laws we've adopted. We discussed it, and we came to the conclusion of the occasion next. There is no solution to this problem in this law. This solution must be sought at one other level, because we already have a legislative situation, in which, in fact, every nation that gets a secretary in one of these institutions is, by definition, that because the secretary is a state official cannot then have a director or deputy director and that is the current situation so. Speaking of which, Mr. Jukić came along with the rest of us, let's play this the way it is. There were no amendments, therefore, amendments, and there was no need for us to change this law at this time and to change it without a whole of all the laws concerning these issues of agencies and administration. We said that we thought it would be good to try to make up a whole report and review the solution and look for a unique solution. Whether a decree is made that the secretaries of these institutions are not state officials, so it is unplugged, or some mathematics is done, in which a large number of directors, a large number of deputy directors, a large number of secretaries will belong to this and this people. For this reason, by respecting the same arguments made by Mr. Jukić, the unusualness of mentioning assistants, it is not the assistant, but the assistants, I suggest that today we do not have a debate about it because we cannot solve the problem. We can't solve the problem, and if we get this back, so we can't go back in procedure first, there's no point in doing it, and secondly, if we agreed to put it back on the board, the commission can't handle this on its own. This is one question that needs to be solved the other way. If there's something we need to do, then we could go to it to reach a conclusion about this law. To prepare the Council of Ministers for information on issues 25 of the management of state institutions outside the ministries and a proposal to resolve national representation within the leadership of these institutions, and then to fully address any other solution, therefore, every other solution is, after all, not a solution and it will cause unnecessary frustration, which I think we cannot solve the problem. For that reason, I mean, my proposal is this, and the objection is, of course, I think we're procedurally going back to something else, because the commission phase is over. There were no amendments. We discussed it, there's no new fact, which was unknown, and I don't see any basis to discuss a breach of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3399	Thank you. Here, Mr. Jukić has his word again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3400	Well, I'll do it very briefly. It wouldn't be contrary to the rules of the Rules of Procedure if they followed my suggestion. Eh, now the question of judgment and judgment is what new facts are. However, I believe that in Rule 90(3), we have a foothold and an argument, and now whether the arguments are new facts or are old facts, that is the question. However, there are obviously facts. So the fact that the provisions of this law are not in line and they are not consistent with the solutions in some other laws, and I think it's enough to try to solve it. But let me tell you, I'm not going to insist on this personally. I expect the club, which I am a member, to make known about, as they do and seek, so will I. I think this is equally important for everyone and representatives and clubs, not something special for anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3401	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Vinko Radovanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3402	This is the problem we saw three sessions ago. It's about secretaries and directors and vice directors. We have to point out this problem to the Council of Ministers, and he has to get rid of it. This solution in some way undermines the human rights of a nation, which in a certain case cannot come into a position to compete, so I think, if you have decided on this conclusion, that in that conclusion we must point out to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3403	Thank you, Mr. Radovanović. So we have two suggestions. As I managed to catch it, which is to declare this law as proposed by Mr. Čengić on behalf of the commission and we have a proposal from Mr. Jukić, yes, in accordance with Article 90(3), we return it to the commission, back to the commission stage of this law. 26 Well, we have the opportunity to make a statement about the Commission's proposal or we'll take a short break. A five-minute break. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3404	...to find a solution and my proposal is what we had on the commission, plus, the idea, first to give consent to this law in this text, and then to make a conclusion that should be said in the following way should have three attitudes. First, the House of Nations warns the Council of Ministers of unanimity of issues of Directors' relations, Deputy Directors, Secretary-General or Assistant to State Administrations, or agencies and administrations, in terms of national representation, given the fact that the secretaries, the secretaries, are treated as auctioned officials and do not fall under the quota to be amended. The position of two would be, we ask the Council of Ministers to conduct a full analysis, taking into account the legal solutions that currently exist, because the number of directors, deputy directors, secretaries, or assistants, on the basis of which we ask the Council of Ministers to propose a full solution, which will ensure the constitutional equality of all three peoples in the management of state institutions and agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3405	I thank my colleagues. Anybody want to comment. I think that's it, language's going to agree a little bit. So, we are about to declare that we are voting on the law in the second reading, then we will go with the proposal of this conclusion, which Mr Čengić made. So, I'm going to open a vote now, who's in favor of adopting this law in a second reading. Open vote. 12 for, no one abstention, no one against. I find that the law has been unanimously passed and we will now vote on the conclusion proposed by Mr Čengić. So who's to conclude in the proposed text? Thank you. This conclusion was unanimously adopted. 14 for, no one abstention, no one against. We're moving to the 19th point of today's agenda. Ad.19. Proposal for a law on supervision of the BiH market, excuse me, at 20 points of the agenda 27.Ad.20. Proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on travel documents in BiH, first reading So this is the first reading with Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first and second readings at the 42nd session. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3406	The same commission on foreign and trade policy at this house discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Travel Documents of BiH. Amendments and additions have been mainly due to one experience lately, and the main objective of these amendments and additions is, in fact, that the law is a little precise on the one hand, in order to facilitate the acquisition of certain travel documents and their content and in some cases, availability, or use of travel documents. A particular emphasis is on ensuring this legitimate control of, possibly, child trafficking. Therefore, a special part of these amendments, i.e. amendments and additions, concerns persons who are minors who have a passport or are listed in someone's passport or have their own passport, in which way they can travel, under which conditions etc. As you know, the promoter of these amendments and the addition of this law is the Council of Ministers. There was one amendment to this law, which was invested by counterpart Nada Radović on time. The amendment has been discussed. The amendment concerns a very important technical transaction, when it comes to issuing passports outside, because it was prescribed within 24 hours, it proposes a change to be 48 hours. The promoter agreed to it and said thanked him for the fact that they did not see it very well, for a very short time. The Commission unanimously accepted that amendment. It has become an integral part of this law and in this sense the commission has proposed that the law be adopted in both readings. Allow me, before I finish, to point out one more thing. When I was about to read this law, I asked Ms. Nevenka, the secretary of this commission to help me, to find me a text concerning the amendments and the additions, and then I got one collection, one small museum of this law, which, with these amendments and additions, became the seventh amendment and addition of this law, and that's how it is. The text is very short. There are less than 30 members in the law, but, believe me, it's hard for great masters to cope with so many corrections, additions to the law, in amendments and additions, which the High Representative brought and adopted, and then new amendments again, etc. Having, therefore, all of this in mind and bearing in mind the fact that this law is in relatively wide use, therefore, a large number of people in their daily work must communicate with this law, our commission has decided to propose to this high home that we initiate production, after we adopt these amendments and supplement laws, to initiate a consolidated text of the law, in order to simply get in one place exactly what Article 3 is now 15, and what is Article 23, etc. In that sense, I would suggest, if we accept this text in both readings that we also form our part of the text matching committee, which is necessary for formal reasons 28, because this amendment, as far as I know, did not enter that other home, so we will have the need to agree on the text. It will certainly be accepted on the other side, but we will still need to secure our members of this joint commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3407	I thank my colleague, Čengić. No sign-ins for discussion. So, who is it to adopt this law in the first reading, I'm opening a vote. 13 for, unanimously passed this law. So the commission suggested, and here I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. We have a report from the committee in charge. The first amendment, which became an integral part of this text, was adopted. So we're having a debate on the amendment and voting on the law. Is anyone picking up? Niko. We're voting on the law. Who's up for the adoption of the law? I'm opening a vote. Unanimity passed law. So, given the fact that in homes the law has been passed in a different text, we are now going to appoint members for a joint committee to agree on the text, so please the presidents of the clubs, here, we will start from Bošnjak first. Who are you proposing? Mr. Čengić. Who's in Hrvat? Ilija Filipović Nada Radović dakle, who is for, to Mr Čengić, Filipović and Radović to be members of the Coordination Committee? I'm opening a vote. Members of the Commission are unanimously appointed. Crossing over to the next point. Sure, we'll get back to that. So, Mr. Neimarlija, you want to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3408	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, I only thought about this proposal, which I support, of course, fellow Čengić on the commission vote, is that what you mean? Okay. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3409	Okay, that was a little bit of a misunderstanding. We will now declare the initiative on Mr. Čengić's proposal at the initiative of our home to create initiatives to produce the consolidated text of this law. So, I'm winning the vote. Who's in? It was adopted jednogalsno as a conclusion, this initiative of ours. We're going to the 21st point of today's agenda. Ad.21. Proposal for a law on the phytosanitary means of BiH, first reading, which is in accordance with Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings at their 42nd session. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. So who is it to adopt the law in the first reading? I'm opening a galley. It was unanimous, therefore, that this law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. We have a report from the committee in charge. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. We're voting on the law. Who's up for the adoption of the law? Voting open. Unanimity 14 for. So the law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives. Ad.22. Proposal for a law on determining and how to settle BiH's internal debt, first reading So, and this first reading in accordance with Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first and second readings at the 43rd session with one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Radović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3410	Gentlemen of the chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Financial and Administrative Affairs of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held its 19th session, discussed the proposal for a law on the establishment and method of reconciliation of BiH's internal debt. The Commission unanimously supported the 30 principles of the law and unanimously adopted the proposed text of the law, along with one amendment and proposes to the home for further procedure and adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3411	I thank my colleague, Radović. So I don't see any more reports. Excuse me, fellow Jukić, he presses the button.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3412	Here, I would only take the opportunity, here is Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Kumalić, whether the text of this law is precise enough, could be more precise. In fact, I think there might be another addition here, in my understanding, and that is the word "the BiH institution". I don't know if it's extra or if it is, because actually, the way I see it, that's exactly what it's all about. Here, just one suggestion, that's what you can do, because it's more specific. During the debate and on the committee, I noticed that some people, until they read a little bit better, thought it was a different debt rather than a debt between institutions, because the internal one could be something other than just among institutions. There's only so much to be exact.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3413	I thank my colleague Jukić. We'll vote now. Who's in favour of the law being passed in the first reading? I'm opening a vote right now. 13 for, no one restrained, no one against, unanimously. I suggest a discussion in another reading. We have a report from the committee in charge. The Commission adopted an amendment, as its president told us, which became an integral part of the text, so it is the same as at the House of Representatives. So this is where we hold the amendment debate, we vote on the law. There were no new amendments. Is anyone picking up? Niko. We're voting on the law. I'm opening a vote. Single 14 for. So the law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives. Ad.23. The proposal for a law on the Red Cross/Cross Society of BiH We have it in our first reading. This is, therefore, the first reading of the law by Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law in both the first and second readings at the 43rd session with two amendments. I'm opening a debate. Here we have guests from the Red Cross, therefore, directly interested in this law. We didn't have any reports. There were conditions for voting in the first reading. 31 I'm opening a vote. This law was adopted unanimously in the first reading. I suggest we wrap up the discussion in another reading. We have a report from the committee in charge. The second reading therefore discusses amendments and votes on the law. There were no new amendments. I'm opening a debate. Đoko Pajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3414	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates, honored guests, I, again, with a single apology, of course, I received this complete material this month 7 and, nature I was not able to study it a little more yesterday. I haven't even been able to make amendments to the Rules of Procedure. He's been through the amendment procedure, etc. However, I would also ask a question and one of my remarks. In fact, Article 1 of this law says. This law lays down the Society of the Red Cross/Crists of BiH, in the following text of the Society, as a national organisation of the Red Cross of BiH. Now I'm asking, we know the arrangement of BiH and now I'm asking whose national organisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I don't know, I don't know. I just don't get it. I was trying to figure it out, but yesterday and today I couldn't figure it out. In my opinion, it was more logical that the society remained as an organisation of the red cross of BiH. That's my personal note. So I don't get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3415	I thank Mr. Đoka. Here, I was going to answer, but I guess my colleague Zrno will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3416	...I suppose, or I welcome you all. I guess this is about a language mistake, thinking, not a state, I think you're thinking not of a national one, but an international one is an organization. I didn't see it. I didn't read it. Here, we've got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3417	The front has delegates. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3418	In fact, it's been translated into this, which means state, or country. When it's said in America across the nation, it's thought across the United States, and here it's not meant to be ethnos, demos, people, but states. So it's not wrong. For our occasions, because we have this, almost exclusively ethnic orientation to the people, actually, because when 32 are said in the Croatian UN, we are not referring to the united nations, but to the united states, of course. So it's not wrong on that side. We won't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3419	I thank my colleague Neimarlija. I'm a colleague of Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3420	Well, this is a very common phenomenon, I think that in every law we discuss in five -- six places, it always appears the same. It is obvious that a large number of laws have been prepared in English, so it is translated or influenced by those who use more of that English nomincletura. This is all about the state. So we mostly subdued under technical repairs like this, and changed the word national to state. If you read all that same text, you can replace the word national to the state and it'll be perfectly clear, so it's not international, but it's a matter of state. We can agree to stay, and we can agree to change it under technical repair to the state, the state no longer causes any dilemma, while this national sometimes causes, especially depending... in some cases it was scandalous. Anyway, it's a matter of state.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3421	Mr. Radovanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3422	I would suggest a solution, which is a little different from what the gentleman suggested. To be as an organisation of the red cross at BiH level and this can be undertaken under technical repair also means at BiH level.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3423	Can I suggest something? We've had this situation boundlessly, and I think it's really clear to all of us what this is all about. I'd suggest we stay out of it right now. I think that this, or I suggest we adopt this law in a text like this, so we know what it means. Is that acceptable to everyone? I think so. I'll open the vote then. So this law was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. I'm sorry, they had two appointments, I had a mistake here in my reminder. Therefore, the Commission again, since it was adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives. A proposal from the Srbin, or Hrvat. Mr. Filipović. Mr. Vinko Radovanović. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija. 33 I am opening a vote for the Commission's proposal: Filipović, Radovanović and Neimarlija. Vote now. So unanimous 14 for. Thank you. I'm sorry, there's your application, but we've made a vote. I'm sorry. I give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3424	I understand it's a commission vote. I voted for the commission, of course. But I wouldn't vote for the law for the reason I've already cited it, and I think it's unconvincing that it's the same thing as national and state. I don't think so, and in that sense I couldn't vote for this law in this text.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3425	I suggest entering the record of what Mr. Pajić said, because we cannot return the vote now. So, he's being fenced from this vote. Nothing would fundamentally change if we repeated the vote and with one vote against the law would be passed. So, thank you. We've also completed the 23rd agenda. We're moving on to Ad.24. Proposal for a tax law on additional value, popular VAT, first reading So first reading in accordance with Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. At its 43rd session, the House of Representatives adopted the conclusion that the deadline for the amendment should be extended. The College of the House of Nations agreed to draw the same conclusion as at the House of Representatives. I am opening the debate and calling, here, the President of the Commission, who has already called the authorities to address us. Here's a colleague of Radoviću.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3426	I thank the chairman. This is quite an important matter, which was on the agenda of the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs, which was held on 7 September 19th session. Prior to the session and together with the materials, a large number of objections to the proposed text of the law have arrived, I will mention here the remarks and suggestions of the Federation of Employers Association of the Federation of BiH, then the Association of Employers of the RS, individual remarks, suggestions, as well as the amendment of counterparts Osman Brk and Tomislav Lim. 34 In view of the importance of this law, the Commission considered these comments and suggestions and concluded that the principles of the law can be applied unanimously. However, due to the indisputable fact that in the basic text of the law, therefore, the commitment of all interested parties, all who made the remark cannot accept one rate as a basis for an additional tax, so it is unanimously accepted that it must go to a higher rate. The Commission has accepted the proposals, in relation to Mr Brk's amendment, where it is said that a differentiated rate of zero is introduced, lower and basic. However, this proposal was unanimously adopted by the Commission with the conclusion that this must be modelled on the budget, because they did not have enough elements to propose a solution from these amendments to model and establish whether this model provides sufficient capacity for budget funds for budget users and therefore we believe, given the importance of this, that what the House of Representatives has proposed is a good thing and we believe that this Commission should also leave additional space, that other amendments can be taken, too, too, to modulate our proposal, which means the proposal for adopted rates, differentiated adopted rates of zero, lower and fundamentally, here I do not specify the percentages that are given, and you have them in the material and, possibly new proposals that would provide a response, primarily to provide budgetary capacity necessary for all budgetary users on the one hand and, on the other hand, that there are no social interests, namely, that have been taken into account, that there are particularly in terms of social and social conditions. And, therefore, I repeat, the Commission's position is to accept the principles of the VAT law, to introduce, not a unique but differentiated rate and to leave room for it to be modulated and, possibly, to collect a new amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3427	I thank the President-in-Office of the Commission. So, the debate is open on this agenda point. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3428	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, we now have the opportunity and satisfaction to discuss, probably one of the most important laws, concerning the comparison of the economic functioning of the BiH state. It was a big job to get to the law, and I'm very glad that the commissions and each other at home discussed this law. According to my understanding, there have been certain amendments to one and another home. From what I understand, the law has seen a very positive assessment as a whole, except that it has appeared, of course, a question of rate, whether it should go after a unique or differentiated one. Let me remind all of us that this is one of the laws of a set of 16 areas that we agreed we should meet according to the European Commission. 35 Let me also say, I believe that the European Commission, too, will appreciate that this law, within these 40, is certainly among the five most important, and on the aspects of economic functioning, perhaps the most important of them all. On the other hand, we've already entered this process. So, we have established the Directorate for Direct Taxation and now we are in a situation that through VAT we are trying to stabilise our market, ensure border control, ensure control of imports, ensure registration of goods imported, ensure registration of obligations for customs borrowing, and thus, above all, ensure more favourable conditions for operating within BiH, and especially more favourable conditions for production, which is also production... For all these reasons, I believe that this law is extremely important and I am convinced that we agree, not only with its significance, but that we agree that we need to do whatever it takes to get the full text of the law as soon as possible. On the other hand, I'm going to be open and unusual here, and I'm sorry that my colleagues from the House of Representatives, after a long debate, almost all day long, have come to conclusions, which, in fact, a little bit, regardless of what formally seems to be giving a lot of space, to give an opportunity to comment and suggestions, to adnhesions, etc. In fact, in a way, they haven't actually shown enough determination to find a solution. And, if you remember, we spoke at this house, that in September, if we were to have a permanent session of this House and the Parliamentary Assembly to come to a solution. In particular, this is important because of the fact that, in fact, there is essentially only one question, for which there is not much solution at all. So the question is whether we should go differentiated or uniformly, if we agree that it's unique, then we have nothing to talk about, if we agree that it's differentiated, then we have an opportunity of 2 or 3 of the options, which are one good economist, and especially the Council of Ministers can end, so all mathematics can end from opportunity and one day or a little shorter. I don't want to value anyone, but it can be shorter. So it's about the law before us, which I think we as a Dom can adopt in both the first and the second readings. So, I consider it private. At the same time, respecting the atmosphere created in the House of Representatives and, respecting the way we work here, therefore, full respect and alignment of attitudes, so, to full consent, I consider the following. For me, the solution to this law is at a unique rate, the only quality solution, which enables it to appeal to establish control of its borders, for the state to establish the control of the inflow and have lasting and increased opportunities and, thirdly, to ensure a more favourable and stable atmosphere in the environment, as it is said, for production, above all for re-production. If that rate was 16, 17, 18 or 14, I wouldn't get into it. I have to tell you that the math that I've heard about 16 is ideal, that 17 is satisfactory, that 18 is already quite good. It's not some math that delights me, it's always starting with the current state. Of course, all these mathematics forgets... in one terrible elasion that took place and took place at the borders and in the BiH area, therefore, significant non-registration or evasion of customs. 36 In that sense, I am convinced that if we were to function well as a state that even a lower uniform rate would be satisfactory, not only for this level of income, but also for more significant and stable revenues. I will not enter into that I believe that in a formal sense... however, I refuse, indeed with full responsibility every idea and thought of anyone that the civil servants, who are referred to this process, were involved in this process, unable to function with differentiated rates, were unable to calculate and professionally do their job. I think they're just as professional as they are in any European country. So, that argument is unacceptable to me and, a little bit, I have to say both ridiculous and unserious when it comes to the lovely clerks involved in this business. It is a little bit and convincing that in this way it refers to people, who operate in one space, which has been a European-organised state for over 120 years. No matter what, I want to say it in the end next. Given the atmosphere in which we are, perhaps an awkward situation that we are ahead of the elections and that as much as we try not to use the Parliamentary Assembly in the daily pre-election campaign, which I think is quite well done, however, we are in a situation that this atmosphere has been transferred to the Parliamentary Assembly in September before the October elections and it is difficult to expect that a more serious political party would now want to go public and say that it is not for a differentiated rate, which is being transmitted as a protection to those who buy bread, milk, etc. For that reason, to conclude, I believe that at this point, a differentiated rate can be acceptable, but I believe that we should accept it today. I believe that we should define ourselves for that pillar, which has confirmed that it can secure an existing inflow of funds in BiH's budgets, which, regardless of the problems, are mostly satisfactory. For this reason, I hold that the amendments that go after solution 0, 10 and 20 could be amendments that we might agree on, and if in the discussion we decide to extend the deadline for amendments, I ask you nicely not to extend it and please keep one fact in mind. This is absolutely certain, do not be angry with 18 laws, which have not yet been passed by the European Commission, this is certainly the most important of 18 laws, not denying any meaning. In other words, we've adopted by this minute, according to my record seven, so there are no more 18 left than 11 to this minute. So, if we decide to extend the deadline for the amendments, I suggest that it be no longer than seven days, so that we have the flexibility to discuss this law in our home, to discuss the law in another home, to form a committee for text alignment, which is possible to happen and to finally, however, get the law by September 30th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3429	I thank my colleague, Čengić. The moustache was reported. Here's a mustache, then a Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3430	Dear President, dear colleagues, 37 I want to say something on this subject, because indeed, when it comes to the bill, I have tried to inform myself. I am not an expert on this, but I have tried those people who know and places where information can be obtained to see how this is being solved in Europe, or in other countries, so I have come to some good knowledge, not to the soul of international organisations, which operate in BiH and which suggest this law, but simply using the internet, has come to some knowledge that it is in Europe. And when we're told here about European standards all the time, I'm here to say that the European standard is not the same tariff, one digit as we're told it's the best and it's kind of a standard and that Bosnia should go with one digit, etc. 85% of European countries have a differentiated rate today. I, as far as I know, have Denmark and Slovakia one rate today and Croatia seems to me and that is what I think and I think Croatia has been well sorry that it has introduced one rate and has suffered a lot of damage. I, for this reason, when we talked about this and when we saw it, in fact every law of every country in the world, and we also bring these citizens to improve the situation in every respect, and this is one of the vital laws, which will also change the economic status of all citizens in BiH, i.e. by strengthening the function of the state in this respect, everyone will get it. To get everyone and try to find the best solution. In consultation with the experts here, I have indeed come to the conclusion that the least earthquake today would trigger this differentiated rate, which I have proposed with my amendments, which, in fact, was unanimously adopted on our commission. And, I think, unfortunately, the House of Representatives has made a mistake for political purposes and delayed the adoption of this law, to the detriment of all BiH citizens, and I don't think this House should be followed. We are, indeed, me, full of it, I think that this home so far in this mandate is doing great, and there are no political big dilemmas and there are no dilemmas and there are no big differences and I don't see any delegates here, which is not so as to improve the situation in BiH. Since this is such a law and these amendments that have been unanimously adopted on our commission, I see no reason, and, if I understand Mr Radović, that he has well-intentioned, that we too leave the possibility of prolonging how the House of Representatives did it, and I do not see the need for us to follow the bad work of the House of Representatives of this Parliament. If we can do it better than them, why don't we do it better than them. I am sure that they will certainly bring a differentiated rate, and I am sure that they will probably blend in on these percentages, on these percentages that are unanimously accepted on this committee, and because of that, I really suggest, that we show as a Dom example that we want to in time, honor the deadlines and open a ticket to BiH, where we open it all this time, since we eat in this parliament. That's why I really suggest that we think carefully about directing the House of Representatives to the knowledge of how quality work should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3431	I thank my colleague, Brk. Mr. Limov answered the words, and Radovanović answered the words, and Branko Zrno answered the words. Limov, you have your word. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3432	I am, of course, now in the dilemma whether to speak and make an argument in favour of the amendments that I made before the very agenda point, and I was inclined to accept the commitment of our college, which, as I understood the management, was to go in a way to respect the conclusion that the House of Representatives had made with this question. I am also pleased with the presentation of the president of our commission by Mr. Radović, so now, however, I am determined to say my position in principle and I will leave the possibility when it comes to second reading that and more thoroughly speaking about the argument, which defines me to go after the solutions, which, as I understand it too, Mr. Brka has made clear, therefore, for differentiated rates and I will not now, given that he has provided some information, and I have a complete review here, I will not be more specific about it, I am also inclined, that of course we also act in a similar manner to which 10 % of these countries, which the esteemed colleague Brka mentioned, did not, therefore, tend to be at the level of Denmark and Slovakia, but the other countries have practically four different rates. I would take advantage of this opportunity, so first of all, I would support the ambition of our council of ministers, which has been defined for the dynamics of VAT introduction, move as soon as possible, as I can remember next year. So by passing the law today or in twenty days, we're practically not going to question this dynamic, because... and obviously it will be, I hope so, because it prevails, it's my feeling, the commitment to differentiated rates, now it's just a matter of calculating percentages, etc. And I appreciate that we are not going to bring this current at all, which is the middle of next year, which is why I am loathing the ambition and insistence of all those involved in this activity to work so that we do not question this framework. This framework is an international community, as I recall planning to do so sometime next year and, of course, I support, in this sense, the Council of Ministers and our domestic experts who claim that we are in a position to introduce VAT in the middle of next year and no one seriously questions the need to introduce VAT. So that's what, I think there's a consensus in political and professional circles and that's very important. I'm not, of course, going to make an argument on this occasion, which is why I'm at a different rate, which is why I'm at a zero rate, etc. This is what I will do when we speak, I hope at the next session, and in this sense I do not agree with Mr Čengić that all of us today, if all of this were to be mature, are to finish today, because I would like to acknowledge the position of our commission and give an additional opportunity for the amendment to act, bearing in mind, precisely the fact that if we adopt this law on 30.9 we will practically be very ambitious, which we have drawn out ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3433	I thank my colleague Limov. kolega Radovanović, meanwhile, gave up the discussion. Zrno can't see you're not here. You want to talk. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3434	Well, basically, I've given up the discussion just a few remarks. I, however, agree with all the discussions, and I wish we could resolve this VAT issue today, so that we no longer repeat its reasons what it means for BiH, and especially for this one of the conditions, etc. But I'm talking about principle here. We, however, made a principled commitment to work in the way we worked, to wait for the results of the House of Representatives' work, and then to work in accordance with the results they reached, and if I were to be sure that it was an obstruction, I would like to, perhaps, say something ugly and believe that it wasn't, even if I were sure that it was political dance, then I would be, absolutely for Mr Hasan's proposal. However, I am not sure, and I suggest we wait for what my colleague Limov said, because those ten days don't mean anything to us, we remain within the time frames, but with one note. If the work of colleagues in the next parliament continues in the same or similar way, then I am so that we do what we should do as members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3435	Thank you, colleagues, for the Zrn. Now we give the word to Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3436	Mr. President, I thought not to speak, esteeming our time off, etc. However, this is an important law and I will only say a few of my thoughts. Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the three countries in Europe that have not yet introduced VAT. So, with Moldova, Serbia-Montenegro, it's still the only BiH. All countries have done this for reasons that there is no better, at least to this day known model and way of picking up public expenditures and I think it is a big deal and a major step forward for BiH to introduce VAT for several reasons. First of all, tax evasion and fraud will be reduced, secondly, to create a better environment for those companies and businesses and all other activities that they want to do, in accordance with the applicable rules and will reduce the space for unfair competition. And, thirdly, I think that we will create better preconditions for general progress and development in BiH and that we will have more money with equal tax burden. I have a problem with one fact these days, which is that even the proponent is not convincing enough in his arguments when he advocates the model, first of all, whether it's a unique rate or whether it's differentiated. On the other hand, they are not said, in my opinion, the most important reasons and as the last goal, and this is said to be that from an opportunity of tax burden as it is today, with a rate which would be a single tax rate of 17%, and on the other hand, it is said that the expected amount of income would be all income based on the level of today. I don't agree with that right now. I'll tell you why. This would mean that the efficiency of our future system and tax collection would remain at today's level. I think it's unacceptable and unsustainable. Again, on the other hand, we have information that a billion, some speak two. What I think 40 is a little over the top. Billions of KMs, real revenue goes away somewhere. So, it doesn't add up, which are very significant percentages of not picking up and very little pick-up efficiency. So these two obviously don't go together. However, I am that, however, it may be a presentation of people, which sometimes, perhaps, is an awkward expression and do not say what is really a state. So I think that the thinking of our colleagues in the House of Representatives is also the responsibility of our commission when it is thought that, however, the principle, which is one of the principles in this proposed text of the law and that it is thought, i.e. to introduce a differentiated rate of two, plus zero, and there is, therefore, of two rates, of two amounts. However, I also believe that the proposed amendments are not of sufficient quality and are not subject to the necessary arguments and projections and budgets around the height, and I am also not sure that a good and quality list of goods, goods and services, which should be in one or the other rate. Also in the third. And that's why I don't think we should be in a hurry. We have enough time, by the end of this month, and, to me, it's much more important that we have a more quality solution than that we're in a race, so I don't know if it's supposed to be 21 or 28. Here, these are my key promotions, and I couldn't say this most importantly, and I'm going to say just one more thing, to back up these claims, one of the republics of the former Yugoslavia Macedonia, when it introduced VAT from an opportunity to leave the tax rate at the level of the one from before, and it had an increase in tax revenues of over 25%. What's that all about? That this system was at least as effective as it was before, and that's why I'm surprised that people from the D.O.D., the IRS, etc. They don't talk about it much. Or we're afraid in advance that we won't do it and that we won't have that efficiency. Of course, I know of some other objective our limitations, etc. difficulties, along with, here, structural and so some of our relationships and that there are several administrations, which have worked in some different, however, circumstances, have been set up differently, etc. to the fact that we also have a certain number of restrictions and dictatorships from our customs policy, which from the IMF, which from the WTO, etc. but, however, I believe that we must not be so pessimistic or at least a little optimistic, better said for the realists to say that in the same tax burden, with good and quality work of all the competent authorities and authorities in charge of collecting these revenues, with VAT we will not achieve greater income. And, one more thing, what worries me the most is that the most responsible people in this country are at peace with one condition that tomorrow we won't be able to have any larger means, which we can do in an agreed way, and yet, given the experience of others who are doing better and better, that we can direct and develop certain priority branches of economics. I think it's necessary and it's necessary, and here's just two more information, so I'm gonna stop bothering you. In the first half of the year o.g. We also have some good indicators, such as the increase in RS exports over 20% in the Federation close to 20%, etc. In some cases, import growth, around 10%, etc. It's certainly very optimistic and significant improvements and I don't think there's room for any of our oversupervisedness or even a little pessimism. Because we're talking about how people go out to us, etc., and often we, too, are people in power who contribute to the creation of a climate, how it's unspectived, I don't know either. And that, in fact, they have nothing to look for here. I think there's a little bit more to bring in 41 optimism and real and realism if you want, I think this time we're a little too careful and we're afraid and then we don't believe in our own success.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3437	Thank you, fellow Jukić. We've really talked a lot about VAT these days, and we've told each other a lot. He's going to get the word of a colleague named brkati. And, look, I appreciate it, I see that my colleagues checked in, so they gave up, what I was going to say to my colleague before me, so, esteeming each other, and in that way, we show our respect. Here, I give my word to my colleague, Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3438	... second time I'm reporting, doesn't mean I don't respect you, which Mr. Chairman just said. I really appreciate all of you, but I feel the need to add a few more things. I really spent days talking to people on this subject. That, I simply gave myself the task of doing this as best I could. And I really picked up a lot of information from people who know that and in places where I could get information and I'm 100% convinced that this is a huge step for BiH. And I am convinced that these proposed rates and amendments now adopted on the commission are today the best solution for BiH, which does not mean that it will be the best solution in a year or two, but today it is certainly so. Why? Because this rate guarantees the flow of these revenues that the state today has and what Mr. Jukić said earlier that Macedonia had 25% higher on these basis and we hope it will be something more than that. That way we'll have more control, less smuggling, better everything preserved than today, and I don't doubt the success of this activity at all. But I'm surprised at something else. I can't just accept it. Oh, you're all witnesses to that. In fact, what's stopped now? A pure political game in the House of Representatives, where the opposition is doing its job. Let it work. But what did we all accept to be upside down into that circuit? Why does this need this home? You don't need this home. Because, look, I'm 100% in being unanimous and all of us here 15, and we're all just so this should go. And we're all about finding a solution. I'm sure, I'm absolutely certain that nothing important will change in 15 days, and our message to Europe is, far more significant now, than to give it to 15 November, or October or what I know. And, for that, I do appeal to my colleagues to accept this because we did it on the commission. I am so that we respect order, that the House of Representatives does something, so that we later, and that was planned. We didn't think they'd have a political game at home. And now we're head-to-head accepting that we're breaking into that game. I don't accept. I don't want to get into this game, and that's why I'm appealing to us to say political maturity, to tell these BiH citizens that we are in these political games on such important things, not to break in, but to pass laws that need this country in time without political games. Especially on the commission, we're that, what about the Commission's position now? Shall we take the official position of the commission? The Commission has accepted this. I don't think we should undo it. Why cancel it? Why should we define the work of our home and our commission, because they're playing a political game there. It's an honor to that one man who manages to screw it up in 42 whole Bosnia and get everybody into this political game. I'm not going to get into that game and I'm asking you not to let anyone get into that game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3439	Thank you, fellow Brk. Word came from colleague Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3440	My colleagues, I welcome you, too. I think we're discussing one of the most important laws for a country and it's quite clear that the seriousness of this debate is that everyone in this house has seen it as an extremely serious thing. I was lucky, so I took part in the work of the commission of this financial administration, and then I discussed it in the College, and we discussed this law very seriously. We can't disrespect it, I apologize to my colleague, Brk, but we can't disrespect the views of our colleagues from the House of Representatives right now. We basically agreed on one thing. That both homes want this law to have differentiated tax rates and that differentiation is calculated differently. Our home and our commission believe that the rates of 20 and 10 and 0 are the system as we have proposed in the amendment, that is, how Mr. Brka suggested in the amendment the best. Our colleagues from the House of Representatives still think that differentiation at 18, 8 and 0 is the best. So we agree on one thing, that they need differentiated rates. Let's all check our budget again, our calculations, and try to find an optimal result in the truth, which we'll all agree on. I don't want to agree with Mr. Brk, that some people, abuse both time and space, and the situation and want to form some of their views before this election or to benefit from the election campaign, by discussing this law, to worship performances as the only friends of the people, and everyone else is either smaller friends or not at all. It's unacceptable and it can't be accepted, it's for all of us, I think the people need to know, but the goal is to find an optimal solution. What's wrong with us accepting the decision proposed by the College of our home, going with our amendments, they're very important to us, and we're going to defend that attitude, but to recalculate and check our calculations, it's not bad, let's check it out, let them check it out, too. Our colleague at the House of Representatives says that unlike some who count it on a broom, he accounts on a computer. We used to do the same on the computer, and I think the bill is good. But we'll see whose computer is the color. We've got a chance, we'll have a chance. I'm asking you at this point and I think we've had a lot of discussion, we've taken the situation very seriously, that our conclusion and that the vote be, that we wait a little bit longer, just like he suggested, come on, I'll tell the College of our home and as our commission suggested. I think it's good and I think it's smart. Why? I have to be honest here right now. It is one decision, which in principle, I believe that at this point and does not smell international organisations, the international community, and simply and there, and it is humane that with people who help us have conversations, to talk, to negotiate and to look for optimal solutions and they are there to look for optimal solutions and to find optimal solutions and not to break things over slaughter. I don't think that's good. And here I am, on the 43rd trail and thinking like this I dare even ask that we go to this solution as suggested by the College of the House. I respect my colleague Brk's absolute attitude. I have to admit that I'm similar this morning, whether he was talking or yesterday I can't do this, and I told my colleagues in the Serbian Parliament Club that it's about time we got behind our decisions more seriously, that we didn't have to stick blindly and firmly to that principle, that we weren't going to bring anything that didn't bring the previous home, the House of Representatives, but they did understand at the end of the day that it was much better to wait a little longer and to check our views again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3441	Thank you, fellow Pamuk. The brkati was about to speak yet. Just before you do, I hope that after your discussion we will not have to form a committee to reconcile the positions of the Bosniak Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3442	Just one sentence. When it comes to rates, at the current rate he suggested, which is proposed in my amendment, I speak only illustrations of 20%. Mercedes remains at the same price as it is now, at a lower rate Mercedes is cheaper. How do you explain to the citizens that Mercedes needs to be cheaped now and children's goods collected? Please. I think we're taking care of where anything is put. This has been accounted for in these amendments adopted by our commission. That's all I'm saying is that when you think about what they're being led by, what's being taken care of when these rates are proposed in the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3443	All right, Bošnjak. I don't see a computer running, whose computer is this Mustava? Since there are no more reports of a hearing, is there anyone else who hasn't spoken twice? So here we have, as I was saying in the introduction, we have a proposal for conclusions of the Kolegijum of our home, and their text is next, here, please listen carefully after we haven't printed them out. So, the first House of Nations supports the principles of the proposal for a tax code on additional value established by the competent commission of our home. That's the first one. The second is, the House of Peoples asks the competent commission to draw up within 15 days a new report on the proposal for a tax on additional value, taking into account the debate which has been conducted as well as the new amendments, in accordance with Rule 90(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I don't understand. Please. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3444	Let's cut that deadline to at least 10 days from 15 days, because after that, we have a commission, and then after that, the commission is scheduled for Dom. That's, you know, so that's this, that's that. Or maybe at least
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3445	Here's if my colleagues from the College agree with me, I'd like it to stay these 15 days, but you know that we've had, if we had, we'd always have done something earlier, so let's keep this deadline formal, but we won't be late for the House of Peoples. So we express our willingness to do it, or until 15 days to be. Up to 15 days. And I'm sorry, here's my colleague Jukić here suggesting, so in the first lock we put something in, here's what this whole conclusion means. The People's House supports the principle of introducing a differentiated rate of tax on additional value as proposed by the relevant Commission and another would mean the conclusion being, the House of Nations asks the competent commission to draw up, in accordance with Rule 90(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House within 15 days, a new report on the proposal for a tax on additional value, taking into account the debate which has been conducted as well as the new amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3446	What are we going to do if those in the House of Representatives continue to fight?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3447	Let's hope it doesn't work that way. We can even pass this law, if they don't bring it, he's out of control. I think whoever wants to see the message from our home as well as the atmosphere, he can see it, and the law can't be, to function until they bring it home. So, thank you. I see by the look on your face that these conclusions seem to get this, enough support to pass. So, I'm opening a vote on the proposal for the Kolegijum's conclusions. You can vote now. Okay, 11 for, 3 against, I find there is, there is an entity majority, these conclusions have passed. Thank you. We move to the next item of the agenda, that's point 25.25. The proposed law on customs policy of BiH, first reading This is the first reading of the law under Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the law in its first reading at the 43rd session. 45 I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3448	The BiH Customs Policy Act has been discussed by 23 foreign and trade policy committees. At the session itself, two amendments were proposed and adopted. According to the information we had and received at the House of Representatives on the commission, there were no amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3449	I apologize, colleague Čengić, can you somehow hear you very little? Maybe the paper bothers you, or something needs to be stepped up.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3450	So, according to the information the commission had at the time of the debate, the amendments to the representative committee, the competent committee of the Pscrete House, were not submitted. It was a large number of technical corrections because it was a very large law, a law that thoroughly regulates customs matters with the structure and competences of all institutions and a thorough debate has been conducted. In a joke someone said that the law is so precise that it solves the question of if a fly from Bosnia moves to the neighbouring state, repairs the tooth and goes back, if there's any customs charges. So precise and detailed. The explanation, the people who have worked, is that this law has arisen as a consequence of defining issues that have not been settled in the 99th year law. So, new questions, new relations of strength. Very briefly, the law received very high grades in total but caused a very serious debate in one part, which led to the session being interrupted and continued, etc. and this is a question of whether this law has legally resolved the issue of jurisdiction between the Council of Ministers and the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. It is interesting that, in fact, in this law, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Administration is like a key institution to which it is called, which decides which one, which one, and the debate actually appears who should have been the proposer of this law. Of course, the Council of Ministers did, but the law enforcement officer was one working commission that was not included in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, although according to the Law on Ministrys and State Institutions of BiH to the foreign trade institutions under Article 4 in relation to Article 9 and vice versa, it is responsible for the conduct of customs-tariff policies. For this reason, after a long discussion and consensus, the commission unanimously agreed to define two amendments formally submitted by counterpart Brka and accepted by the commission. 46 To conclude, this law is really just as important and the commission suggests that this House adopt the law in the text as it has proposed, so with the amendments it has accepted in both readings. Let me just say, despite the fact that the House of Representatives passed this law in the first reading and took the view that the next session would consider a second reading, to remind you of the House of Representatives there were no amendments. I must admit that I don't understand why the House of Representatives has made such a decision and has not decided to extend the deadline for amendments. So that was their decision. It is my suggestion that we do not go to the House of Representatives here, I think that today we can declare ourselves on this law in both readings, and the House of Representatives will adopt the law certainly in a text different from this because of the amendments that our proposal contains, these two amendments, so it would be necessary after that to form a committee, or to propose a committee for text alignment. So, in the end, we propose that the law with these amendments be passed on to this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3451	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Here's a suggestion. Are there any more discussions that have been reported? There isn't. We're going through procedure. So no one signed up for the discussion. I will now give this BiH Customs Policy Act in first reading for the vote. So, with the amendment one of course. So, I'm opening a vote. 13 for, unanimity adopted. I will, then, remind myself of the fact that the House of Representatives passed this law at its 43rd session, in the first reading. We now had a proposal from Mr. Čengić and he explained that we were having a debate on this law and in the second reading and possibly adopting it. Nothing, I'll put it to the vote now, that proposal, Mr. Čengić's proposal. So you've heard the argument of this, like this. I'll give before the vote. I'll take a break of 10 minutes. We have one request and a journalist about, they want to take statements about this VAT, because in their opinion it's the most important item of the agenda. So, 10 minutes break, so we continue and in the meantime you can consult. 47 In BiH's customs policy, we adopted the first reading. [[PAUZA]] We have come to Mr. Čengić's proposal that we consider this law in the second reading, and I will now put that proposal to the vote. Are we all here? We did. So, I'm voting on Mr. Čengić's proposal. Shall we go in the second reading? 3 for, 3 abstentions, 7 against, I find that this proposal has not been adopted. So we move on to the next item of the agenda, that's Add.26. The proposal for a law on the State Border Service, we have it in our first reading so that according to Article 90, there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the law in its first reading at the 43rd session and I am opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Boško Šiljegović, here's your colleague, Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3452	Thank you, Chairman. On the committee, opinions on the existence of a valid constitutional and legal basis and compliance with the Constitution of BiH, the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy at its session of 31.08 gave its report on the proposed State Border Service Act with six amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3453	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. I don't see any applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of adopting the law in the first reading? I'm opening a vote. So, 15 for, unanimously adopted.../interrupted connection... in the first reading of the law was adopted unanimously. Moving to the 27th agenda, that's 48 Ad.27. The draft law on missing persons in BiH provides for the first reading of the review of this law, which is in accordance with Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law in both the first and second readings at their 43rd session with three amendments. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. So, I thought she might have failed the electronics but she didn't. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Who is it for the Law on Missing Persons in BiH to be adopted in the first reading? I'm opening a vote. 15 for, therefore unanimously passed this law. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. We got a report from the committee in charge. The second reading discusses amendments, votes on the law. We didn't have any amendments. Is anyone picking up? Niko. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law. I'm opening a vote, of course, on the law. Unanimity, 14 for. So the law was passed and in yes, yes. Given the fact that the law has been passed in various texts we should also attach this, commission to bring the text of this law into line. So, I'm asking the club chiefs to make their proposals. Mr. Šiljegović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3454	I propose Mr. Boško Šiljegović to this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3455	Thanks for the suggestion. The Hrvat club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3456	Ante Spajić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3457	Spajić, Mr. Genjac
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3458	Osman Brka
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3459	Osman brkati. So, gentlemen of the Serbian Club, 49
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3460	I apologize, we propose Mr. Đok Pajić after the consultation. It's his area and I think he'll make a contribution to the alignment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3461	Okay. So we have a proposal. gospoda Pajić, Spajić and Brka. I'm opening a vote on the composition of this committee. Please approach the vote. 14 for, unanimity therefore. Congratulations to the board members on the newly elected. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's A.28. Proposal for a law on bottled drinking waters of BiH, first reading What is in accordance with Article 90 is under discussion on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings at the 43rd session with nine amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? I don't see any reports. So, I'm closing the debate. Who is it for us to adopt this Law on bottled drinking waters of BiH in our first reading? Open vote. Unanimity, 13 for. The law in the first reading was adopted unanimously. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. I give my word to Mr. Brk, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3462	Which was adopted at the House of Representatives with nine amendments. That's what you said, and there were no amendments in us. I'm not in favour of voting in another reading right now, but of leaving the possibility of more amendment action, that we don't have to form a commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3463	The same amendments were adopted in our commission
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3464	So they're adopted, we're not told 50
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3465	Turn yourself in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3466	We're not told it was adopted on our committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3467	No, it's the same text. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The Commission adopted nine amendments that are identical to the amendments adopted at the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate. Are we actually voting on? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no new amendments. Niko one answered your question about it, just to check it out. All right. We can vote. So we vote on a law that includes these amendments. Open vote. 15 for, therefore, I find that the unanimity law on bottled drinking waters of BIH was adopted in both readings in our home in the same text as in the House of Representatives. Point 29 of the agenda, Add.29. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH, first reading This reading is in line with Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law in both the first and second readings at the 43rd session with one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3468	The Commission for Foreign Trade Policy discussed the law at its 22nd session on 27 July this year. The Commission has given support to both principles and principles. Three amendments were made to the Commission itself, i.e. I think four, but three were accepted and they became an integral part of the law. According to the information we have in the House of Representatives, there have been some very strange movements, there are, there are no amendments, accepted, not accepted, and it has finally been concluded that they are returning this law to themselves in the commission phase. Yes, you do have a note, so read a little bit, so you'll see, they've extended the commission phase to determine the commission phase, etc. As far as our commission is concerned, we haven't had any more amendments. We agreed to the views and we proposed that the text, that the law in the text was accepted on the committee be accepted on the House. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3469	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Here's my word to Secretary Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3470	I spoke to the secretary of the House of Representatives this morning. She told me that these laws were adopted in both readings with one amendment. That's my information. It was, it was a second reading today. At the previous session was the first reading. Believe me, that's what they told me this morning and that was the amendment that everyone accepted, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, who said an extremely good amendment and a quality amendment that must be installed. They didn't send us a notice because it was
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3471	Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3472	Here's a copy of the report from the session, from the House of Representatives session. Let me just sit down and I'll read it to you. It says this, therefore, that Sead Palavrić participated in the further discussion, so it is the Law on improving foreign investment in BiH, the first reading. And this is how Seada Palavrić, Selim Bešlagić, Momčilo Novaković, Šefik Džaferović, Petar Kunić, Fatima Leho, as well as Minister Dragan Dokić participated in the further discussion. Dragan Doko writes Dokić by mistake. After the debate, the conclusion was reached. For vote 20, against 13, from the Federation for 15, from the RS, pardon, for Federation 20, against 13, from RS 5 for. In order to allow for a new commission phase and to invest amendments, and to draw up a new report by the competent commission, after which the proposal will be discussed in the first and second readings at the next session of the law. Here's this in writing, what I just got from Mrs. Nevenka who's [[Common discussion]] And that's another thing, I apologize. What's the last one?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3474	Mr. Secretary Tomić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3475	It was, but it was at the 402nd session of the House of Representatives, it was at the end of the 7th month and now they had the 43rd session, they had this law yesterday and was adopted with the amendment of Mrs Hadžiahmetović with one amendment law adopted. It was in both readings yesterday. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3476	In our first reading of this law, we need to make a statement. So, I'm opening a vote. Here you go in the first reading. Unanimity, 15 for. So I find that the law was passed in the first reading. And I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. We have a report from the commission. The Commission adopted three amendments that became an integral part of the text of the law. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The new amendment was submitted by Vinko Radovanović. The amendment and Vinko Radovanović in Article 2(2) is changed and said, the agency's headquarters is in Serbia's Sarajevo, I believe, in Sarajevo, Republika Srpska for a new one. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3477	Just for a little while. As far as I know, this isn't a new amendment. It may have been re-invested, but this amendment was me thinking on the commission and the commission rejected it. That's another thing. So he's re-invested. I just want to get to know the Dom that this amendment was on the committee, that the commission was considering it and most of the votes refused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3478	But in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he had the right to invest. We will now declare Mr. Radovanović's amendment. So, I'm opening a vote. 7 for, 3 abstentions, 5 against. There's no entity majority. He's got to go to Kolegijum. I'm declaring a break of a minute, two just to try to bring the Kolegiju into line and get back to work. We didn't get along. [[PAUZA]] There was no harmonisation among the members of the Kolegijum. In accordance with Rule 60(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, when no agreement is reached, whether it must be declared in accordance with this Article, which is who is against it. So, who's against this amendment, is that how we vote? Open vote. Yeah, yeah, let's just get this straight. I'm canceling this vote. So who's against this amendment? That's how we voted last time. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3479	You can see worse who's against it, we have to go, because now it's the second round of voting because two-thirds of an entity can't be against it, so the amendment goes through. If there are more than two-thirds, the amendment cannot pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3480	Okay, so who's against it? I'm opening a vote. One, two, three, four, five, six, six against the Federation. Last amendment. Okay, so I figure the amendment's over. Now we're going to vote on the law. Is anyone actually answering for a word? Okay. Here's an observation. From the RS who's against? It's nobody. I find that no one is against Mr Radovanović's RS amendment. So, the amendment has passed. So we're going to vote on the law. No Niko answered for the word. So we're voting on the law. You can vote now. 14 for, 1 against. Therefore, I find that the law has been passed, but it has been adopted in a different text than that adopted in the House of Representatives. We are obliged to appoint in accordance with the Rules of Procedure a joint committee for text alignment. And I'm asking the club chiefs to propose. Here are the Bošnjak.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3481	Mustafa Pamuk _________: Mr. Velimir Jukić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3482	Mr. Vinko Radovanović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3483	Okay, you can cover our home by yourself. I'm just kidding. If there's anything we want to change, here's after colleagues and members of the College have declared that they won't be there, because they have plans, the law, now it doesn't matter when we adopt it is. 54 Okay, so I am opening a vote on the proposal of members of the Conciliation Commission, composed of Mr Pamuk, Jukić, Radovanović. You can vote now. 13 for, 1 against, I konstatovati that this composition of the commission has been adopted. Ad.30. Proposal for a law on control and control of the crossing of the state border, this is the 30th point of the agenda and the first reading we have now. The first reading is in accordance with Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings at the 43rd session. I'm opening a debate. I have the wrong information here is whether it was adopted in another reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3484	They've extended the deadline, they've extended the deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3485	So, technical error. Here's the thing. Now I'm going to say again, so we have on the agenda a bill on the supervision and control of the crossing of the state border in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3486	There's been a very specific situation around this law. We didn't have a report from the last session of the House of Representatives. It seems that during the session, I at least didn't get a specific situation with regard to this law is the fact that the Joint Committee is in charge. This is the Commission for Defence and Security, which is common to both homes. As far as I know, I have not seen that report yet, but the House of Representatives has adopted the conclusion that the commission phase should be extended, and therefore MPs of the House of Representatives have been put in a position to act in amendment on this law. Since it is necessary to ensure a level playing field for both both home and delegations and MPs that they can equally, especially when it comes to joint committees, to submit amendments, and the situation has created the need for an extension of the commission phase because as far as I am informed, there have been shortages in the law and technical and normative and legal nature and indeed the need to extend this commission phase. And I think for that reason that it would be good, that we adopt the same conclusion as the House of Representatives and that our conclusion is that the extension of the deadline for the commission phase is equal to the deadline and the House of Representatives and, of course, it is quite meaningful because the Joint Commission and the Joint Commission will sit in that term. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3487	I thank my fellow Genjac. I give my word to my colleague, Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3488	Please, since I am chairing this Joint Commission, let me get something straight. There's nothing to question about this Joint Committee. The Joint Defence and Security Commission held its session 31.08. All procedures were carried out by a fellow Genjac, you were present, but 1st and 2nd. An OHR meeting was held in 09th where OHR representatives, representatives of the Directorate for indirect or, independent taxation of BiH, representatives of the State Border Service, European Monitoring Mission, OHR, European Police, KAFO and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations were present. You all received this memo, where the representatives of the KFAO disputed in the draft law of a provision and asked to return the law to the commission. So I don't allow anything to be disputed about the Joint Commission, but here's the letter. We all got this letter signed by Director Kemal Čaušević. And then OHR representatives asked to return to the Joint Commission at this stage and representatives from OHR and KAFAO would come and say which provisions were controversial in the proposed law. So, I'll accept this variant to go as it is in the House of Representatives, but please, don't let anyone say, now it's this Joint Commission, so it's not. All the Joint Commission has done, submitted its report, it's all over but two days later, a meeting was held at this level and said there was something controversial about the law and that the law should return to the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3489	A fellow Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3490	I believe that counterpart Šiljegović does not think that someone here mentioned that the Defence and Security Commission has done anything controversial. The Defence and Security Commission has indeed held a session, held for six hours, discussed several significant laws, adopted amendments, and there is really nothing controversial about it. It seems disputed that I, for example, did not get a chance to see this memo from KAFAO and from Mr Čaušević. Where's the problem? We'll figure it out. I didn't have that information, but it doesn't change, I mean, it's pure technique. The important thing is that there is a need to follow up on the observed, I still don't know which species to extend the commission phase to make it better.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3491	Okay. From what I understand, we have a proposal for this conclusion and I think we should make a statement about it by voting. 56 Who is this conclusion proposed by Mr. Genjac? I'm opening a vote. 12 for, 1 abstention, 1 against. So I figure this conclusion has passed. We move to the next item, the 31st agenda, Ad.31. The election commission's report on the 2004 municipal election financing no, it probably says general, did you get a report from the committee responsible, the House of Representatives is at......session 7th September 2004, I don't see a promoter here, no one
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3492	I suggest we return the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3493	I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Mr. Đoko Pajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3494	It's a shame there's no one from the Republic Election Commission, but I have to publicly here at this House of People's session express one dissatisfaction, carelessness, negligence, it seems to me that these, I don't think, but I am convinced that these elections will not be fair and even. The election law of BiH and the election law of the Republic of Slovenia provides for a way to finance election commissions and parties running for elections, etc. However, we have an absurd situation, and I would like it to be transferred and we will certainly send it to the Electoral Commission in writing these days that big and strong political parties are favored again and those who do not have their representatives in the municipal parliaments are not, I am going back I may not know it in general in all municipalities but I am going back to the Municipality of Bijeljina, that not a single mark and less political parties that do not have their representatives in the Assembly have yet won and therefore have no chance to lead an equal election campaign and to participate in the race for the upcoming elections. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3495	I thank my colleague, very agile colleague Pajić, who has a solid miniature for the first session, I'm joking a little bit. Niko one's answered the word yet. Comrade Pamuk, would you like to make your proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3496	No, I'm kidding. I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3497	He was joking about his colleague Pamuk. Okay, so I'm opening a vote on that. Who's to adopt the report? Open vote. 8 for, 4 abstentions, 3 against, the report was adopted. So 8 for, 4 abstentions, 3 against. Point 32 of today's agenda, Add.32. Appointment of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH, in accordance with Article 39. The Law on Communications, members of the BiH Regulatory Agency Council, appoints the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. At his 43rd session as a member of the agency, the House of Representatives appointed a professor, Dr Milorad Živanović. We received a proposal from the Council of Ministers with Professor Živanović's biography. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. Who's for the appointment of Professor Živanović? You can vote. 12 for, 1 abstention, no one against. So I find that professor Dr. Milovan, here writes Milovan or Milorad, now I don't know what the man's name is, Milorad Živanović appointed member of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications Council. We're going to the 33rd item of the agenda, Add.33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between BiH and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, I will read on our OPCW about the privileges and immunities of the OPCW The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this Agreement at the 43rd session. You've received a report from the committee in charge. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of giving consent to ratification? Open vote. 15 for, therefore, this Agreement has been ratified. There is unanimous agreement, therefore, for ratification. And we move to the final point of this agenda, this session, that's 34th in a row, 58th Ad.34. The appointment of a member of the Commission for the Control of the Intelligence Security Agency is, in fact, ASA, I am opening the debate. He has the word Mr. Bosko Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3498	Mr. Chairman, since we, by decision of the High Representative, have taken part of the committee of delegates from the order of the Serbian people, so that there will be no commission delays, so that Mr. Radović has taken over the leadership of the Administrative Finance Commission of the House of Peoples, the chairman of the commission has sent a request to the club, since there are already 4-5 committees to propose instead of him our new delegate, Mr. Pajić, to the Commission of Parliamentary Oversight Intelligence Agency, and here I propose to delegates to make this replacement.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3499	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. I give my word to my colleague Tomislav Limov. We have your proposal to make a statement of course about him, but before that, I give my word to my colleague Limov, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3500	Of course, I'll be very brief. I'd just like to warn you about the procedure. Previously, this member should be resolved and only then appointed a new member so as not to be disturbed is the structure. A bit of a joke, but here's the thing. Let's meet the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-09-0.u3501	Yes, to accept really this is in place. No more reports. I'll be the first one to see if Mr. Radović's release from this commission. Who's for Mr. Radović to get rid of? I'm opening a vote. So, we're solving a colleague of Radović. Who's in favour of Mr. Đoko Pajić being a new member of the commission. I'm opening a vote. So I congratulate my colleague Pajić and he could buy a drink now that he has become a member of a very important body of our parliament. I'm closing this session now, but allow me a few sentences after the conclusion. So I'm closing this session and thank you for your effective work. 59 Now this, after the session I speak. So, you've been during this session you've received a call for the next session. It's on the back of the colleges and club chiefs' agreement. So, it's about those five laws that were proposed on the agenda so take them off, so here we put them on and we found one modality to end it all. Well, here's a break of 10 minutes until the technique is ready, because we're going to have to listen to the anthem again, or we need to follow protocol because this is a new session. So, 10 minutes break, so we move on. The session ended at 5:35 p.m.
