ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3758	Dear delegates, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you and open the 34th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session, all 15 delegates are present, so 5 from each of the three constituent nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For today's 34th session, I propose the next Agenda 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. A record from the 33rd session of the House of Peoples, 3. Report by the Joint Commission on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Court of Justice of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts of BiH, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 6. The request of the Financial Administrative Commission of the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Labour Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure, 7. A request from the BiH Presidency to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on value added tax (VAT) – second reading, 9. The Special Report on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Election Registration issues for the exercise of an active voting law and on the achievement of the passive voting rights of national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 2004 municipal elections, 2 10. Reports on the financial audit carried out by the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution for 2003 year : (a) The Agency for Information and Protection of BiH, (b) the Centre for the Removal of Mines BiH, (c) the Directorate for Civil Aviation of BiH, (d) the Directorate for European Integration, (e) the Directorate for Implementation of the CIPS project, (f) the Home for Human Rights of BiH, (g) the Institute for Accreditation of BiH, (h) the Commission for the Protection of National Monuments of BiH, (i) the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, (j) the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and Economic Relations of BiH, (j) the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, (i) the Permanent Committee for Military Affairs of BiH, (n) the Council of Ministers of BiH - Service, (o) the Commission for Property Requirements of Persons and Refugees, 11. Report on the state of defence and security structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 12. A report by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy on the proposal for conclusions and measures on the Information on the state of security of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with Article 46. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People are not voted on on the agenda, and it is considered adopted as proposed. So we move to the first point of the agenda Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions The answer to the delegate's question was received by delegate Mr. Boško Šiljegović. Are you satisfied with my colleague Šiljegović's response?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3759	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have received an answer to the delegate's question I referred to the State Service Agency -- what is national representation at the State Service Agency? I'm not satisfied with the response to the national structure of the National Service Agency either. In response, the answer contains and contains elements of impudence, I repeat the impudence and the Club of Serbian delegates will send a letter to the Agency's leadership. Namely, in one section it is said of a total of 12 employees is one member of the others, two are Croats, one is Serbs and 8 are Bosniaks. All right, that's a blood count. He says in order to clarify the answer, since we do not understand the ultimate intention that the envoy Boško Šiljegović has asked himself and afforded himself the leadership of Mr Finc to arm me a little bit in this response. Finally, it says -- there is no obligation for the national structure of one 3 institutions to reflect the national structure on the last census, but the same obligation exists only at the level of all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the club will send a letter, this is no longer a delegate question of a representative of the Serb people, but a complete club will send a letter, and I think we will send a letter to the Council of Ministers on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3760	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. I ask delegate Tomislav Limov to plead for the answers he received at the last session, and Mr. brkati to prepare himself. Here's a colleague of Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3761	Dear Mr. President and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, distinguished fellow envoys, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the international community and public information funds, I have asked at our 27th and 28th session the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the delegation issues concerning the platform of negotiators and problems related to negotiations on the border line led by representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina sleepers of neighbouring countries to the Republic of Croatia and the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, and I have also asked a question concerning stolen official vehicles of various state and entity institutions for the past 22 months. All of you distinguished colleagues who have read the answers to my questions will understand that I am, for a reason, dissatisfied with the answers. Although I appreciate the effort that has been made, but the answers are incomplete in the section relating to the number of state bodies that have stolen official cars in the past two years, and the part relating to the names of our negotiating team because those names, I don't know why they're simply not listed in this response. I am particularly dissatisfied with the state of the answers, and I must say, firstly, the answer indicates that 25 official cars have been stolen over a period of twenty months, although I know there have been more stolen yet and from those 20 vehicles it is clear that it is worth more than a million marks. Frapantan is the fact that none of them have been found, nor have the perpetrators been brought to justice. We all know that stealing cars is the content of organized crime and that many people buy their stolen car. Mr. Hilmo Selimović, Police Commissioner Canton Sarajevo, recently said organised crime groups stealing vehicles operate in Sarajevo. It's a business that, I'm convinced it has a transnational character. Dear colleagues, I would like to express my astonishment behind this pay phone with the following fact, namely, the police in Sarajevo in this year, until December 1st, found the part where the car was stolen by 89 thieves. Already named on December 1st, so 15 days ago, none of those 89 criminals were in prison. What exactly are we doing and what is it about when thieves don't respond, and people who are in charge of using and guarding official cars also continue to work as if nothing happened? There are cases that some of them were stolen twice, of course different two vehicles. In my understanding, it's also humiliating when criminals steal cars from police, intelligence and military, and it's the highlight of humiliation when they steal the car of the Bosnia and Herzegovina security minister, because it does, in addition to other things, talk about the relationship between the forces between organised crime and our state structures. And what will an ordinary citizen really hope for when it comes to their and the security of their property? Second, the response to establishing a state border line shows that this head can only hurt us. The mandate of our negotiators expired on December 2nd of this year, but the agreement is gone, although they have been constantly announced. I can hardly accept the fact that we do not have at least an agreement on border traffic, or an agreement on a simplified process of human and slave traffic, because it would make life much easier for people on both sides of the border line. The interest of all sides, therefore, is both Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a sovereign state and it is unacceptable, for example, that our people have major problems in the processing of their country, which in some cases is only 50 metres from the border line, but of course in the Republic of Croatia. Individuals, we are witnesses and in the public of the published data pay fines for crossing the border to process their private property. In the disputed area, the disputed area, there are 100 parcels of which 97 are the owners of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens. I also live in the border area, and I know that we citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have problems crossing to Croatia to work their country, but Croatian citizens are handling their properties in Bosnia and Herzegovina without a problem, transporting goods to one side and the other much easier than we do. As far as I'm concerned, I'm here for pure reciprocity and nothing less. It is also known that on the basis of the views, along with the other famous barringer commissions, the boundaries are unchangeable in these areas. In reality, however, this is very questionable. For example, only in the area of Janje 700 hectares of Bosnia and Herzegovina since 1992, I will say that the military border police forces of Serbia-Montenegro have occupied, and it is known that Bosnia and Herzegovina is required to move the state border and Serbia-Montenegro's demands for part of our territory in the area of Zvornik and Bajna Basta hydropower plants have been made public. These are very serious issues that only one body and no commission or one other body in this country can decide on. The work should be properly included by the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It would be good, and I think it would be necessary for the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to provide the peoples with full information within 60 days on the progress so far and the results of negotiations between representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the setting of the border line and on the relevant agreements of states that regulate border traffic issues of people and goods. These days, we have witnessed the fact that the Presidency has made certain issues public in this regard, I would say in connection with this issue. In this regard, I have delivered to our esteemed College and a concrete proposal for a conclusion that I have said in practical terms, and I am asking that the College, i.e. to enable the President to make that conclusion known. Thank you very much. In this way, we would give the purpose of asking questions, because it is not essential that I get the answer and that it is done, the point is that the question encourages relevant entities, 5 relevant entities to work and inform the Parliamentary Assembly and the public in general about this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3762	Thank you, Mr. limov. Here I'll give you right now, we've had a brief consultation here with the members of the College, and since we don't have a business opportunity to go with this proposal of yours, as you suggested here in writing, we think you can suggest a special agenda point at, say, the next session, because here we are now on the agenda for today, so that's the answer to the Kolegijum. I'd like to ask Osman Brk's coelga to see if he is.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3763	I accept your proposal, and I ask you to put this agenda item on the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3764	I would like to thank my colleague Limov, and I would like to ask Mr. Brk to state whether he is satisfied with the answer he received from the last session.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3765	I thank you and greet you and I got the answer. I thank you for your answer. But I'm not happy with him at all. Exactly, my question was with a desire for this country to find answers to similar situations, and if you remember this is a question of irresponsible behaviour of people highly positioned political in neighbouring countries when they come to Bosnia and Herzegovina and I have received the answer that the party concerned is in the name of which the gentleman, the gentleman in question, has been punished by the Electoral Commission with 10,000.00 KM and it is all over. I think it's one big mistake and that's not the answer at all. Bosnia and Herzegovina must find ways to free itself from such under the quotes of well-intentioned people who come to Bosnia and disperse inter-national religious and any other hatred. We do not need such people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think that Bosnia and Herzegovina must find ways to free itself from such guests and to declare certain people... or that simply the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina deserve to no longer listen to such people who come to Bosnia and Herzegovina with their last intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3766	Can we conclude that you said you weren't satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3767	Yeah, yeah. I'm not happy with the solution. That's no solution. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3768	With a solution. You're satisfied with the answers. You've got the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3770	I thank my colleague, Brk. Are there any new delegate questions at today's session? Mr. Radović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3771	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, at the address of our delegates, and MPs, a letter has arrived from a single humane operator complaining of a major fraud in the field of copyright, and they are being implemented through the Institute of Standards, Measurement and Intellectual Property. So my question would be addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resolute Ministry, to check the allegations and report to us on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3772	I thank my colleague, Radović. There are no new entries on this agenda. I therefore conclude the first point of today's agenda to answer delegate questions and delegate questions. The next, or second item of the agenda, is Ad2. A record from the 33rd session of the House of Peoples, please, I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll get to the record now. You can vote now. The record was unanimously adopted. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Court of Justice of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in the proceedings before the courts of BiH you received a report from the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission. 7 Does anyone from the Commission want to say something before? No, I don't. The House of Representatives adopted this report at its 47th session on December 2, 2004. So, I'm opening a vote. It was unanimously adopted 14 votes, one didn't vote. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina has also received a report from the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both of us at home. The House of Representatives adopted this report at its 47th session, held on 2 December of this year. Niko one answered. So I'm opening a vote. Who's for the report? Thank you. Unanimity, 15 for. We're moving to the fifth item of the Ad.5 agenda. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report from the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both of us at home. The House of Representatives also adopted this report at its 47th session, held on 2 December of this year. So, who's in favor of adopting this report? You can vote. Voting closed. A Joint Commission report has been adopted. The sixth item of the agenda Ad.6.Requirement of the Financial Administrative Commission of the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Labour Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 100(2) The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this Article after the debate. Amendments shall not be submitted since they are a member of point 3. 8 But I would like to inform you that the House of Representatives did not adopt the request of the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives to consider the draft law supplementing the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, and the law will be discussed in the ordinary procedure. I'm opening a debate. Here we have the President of the Commission, Mr. Radovic, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3773	Since the Commission's proposal under consideration at the House of Representatives needs to be considered in the ordinary procedure, not under Article 100, so I propose that we adopt this view, too, that the Law be considered in the ordinary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3774	So, if we hadn't gone before the ore, or not to go before the House of Representatives, we should vote against the president of our administrative financial committee. So the answer to the question of who is that the law is being considered under Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure should be against going to regular procedure. So now I'm opening the vote. Against. Therefore, this requirement to go according to Article 100(2) has been rejected. The request goes to regular procedure. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, please turn off the microphone for your colleague Radović. Ad.7. A request from the BiH Presidency to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure therefore have a debate on whether the Law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to cut deadlines for reviewing the Law at its 47th session, held on 2 December 2004. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3775	Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the College, respected colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, before any discussion, I would like to understand one important thing in my opinion, which is whether there is any understanding that this law is in close contact with the Banks Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given that the law has not appeared in the procedure so far, it remains unclear how this law is possible and when it is accepted if there is no Law on Banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I am interested in whether we get an answer. I do not have any information 9 that this law has already come into parliamentary procedure and I am interested in what stage the preparation of this law is possible or in what other way the competent authorities intend to comply with the application of the Central Bank Act in the period until we get the Banks Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, that's one thing I think I should say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3776	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Here we have a representative of the Council of Ministers, Mr Kumalić, Deputy Minister. Can you answer this? And we have one from Central Bank, so I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3777	I am Jasenka Žigić, a legal adviser at the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is true that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act related to the inclusion of supervisory supervision within the Central Bank has to do with the Law on Banks created only by Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is now being prepared. However, we have left in the transitional provisions that the Law on the Banks of the Federation and the Law on the Banks of Republika Srpska, which are even in its texts, will not be a problem in the transitional period to apply the Central Bank Act, i.e. the amendment that is now being proposed. And the Banks Act will be under discussion in Parliament at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3778	Mr. Čengić. Come on, let's have a colleague named Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3779	The beginning of next year is in 15 days, so is it at such a stage, is the law at such a stage that we can expect it in the next 15, 20 days, here a month, or is it in someone to say the initial phase? In fact, there is one very simple fact. According to my understanding, the Central Bank is an institution that strongly insists on this law and its urgency. So not only on the law, but on the urgency. And on the other hand, we have a situation that we don't have this other law that's actually almost the other half of this same law. Well, then in that part, a little bit just sort of in, unspeakable. We're pushing one half, and around the other almost nothing happened, or maybe it is, but we don't know, because we only know about something when it comes to parliamentary procedure. Until then, we don't know what stage it's at. So I would ask you if you could tell us how long do you think it takes real time for this law to reach the Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3780	Well, I can't exactly tell you, but I hope the beginning of next year, this law on the banks of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be in the process. Personally, I think that in relation to the current Federation law and the 10 Law of Republika Srpska, this law will not have any substantial and major changes, only it will be Bosnia and Herzegovina's law, and right now what we are proposing to amend the Central Bank Act and apply in the transitional period of Federation law and Republika Srpska's law on banks, so it will not create a problem that there is no law on the banks of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As you probably know, it's about amending the Central Bank Act to put supervisory supervision under the auspices of the Central Bank. Supervision is a regulated provision on the Supervisor on the Banks Act, but they may be in some details to experience a change but there will be no substantial changes to that part, I don't even believe it will be about the organisation of banks, just means what the law will be about BiH, two laws are united in one piece, and there will be a Law on Banks and BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3781	Thank you, Mrs. Žigić. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3782	I thank these answers and hope that, therefore, explanations may be so to say perhaps formally satisfactory, but it is essential that we still have a law on banks at the level of BiH. Therefore, not only is the Central Bank taking over these responsibilities, but also because these issues need to be addressed at that level. If we go back to this law alone, I want to say the following. This law belongs to that group or to that list of laws, those 40 laws that need to be passed, in order to implement the commitments towards preparations for the start of Stabilisation and Association negotiations with the European Commission. So, by that standard and by that criterion, this law is both important and urgent. And about that, I have no dispute. I'm one of you, and we all agreed that all these laws were to be finished by 30.09. Here they are not yet finished, and in that sense it is certainly important that this law be done as soon as possible. On the other hand, I believe that it is clear to all of us that this law implies significant procedures, organisational, human resources, etc. except for this very law in itself, at the level of the Central Bank, or at the level of the then existing entity banking agencies. In this sense, there will obviously be a reduction of entity agencies in terms of the number of people, their role will be changed because they will become some kind of central bank exposure. True, it is likely that when we discuss the law itself, we will have the opportunity to discuss why the legislator decided on this solution, for this option, so why does he keep calling them agencies and retaining a position like that, instead of being the real exposures of the Central Bank in this area. So, bank supervisory, I'm not sure what's important in my opinion, is next. If we accept today that we will discuss this in a shortened procedure, and as I recall it is therefore that the law should be passed within 45 days. Then, one very serious question arises. How realistic is it for the Central Bank, it takes time for it to apply this law from the time the law is passed? I know that there in the transitional provisions is also mentioned some period, and what will happen in that period, but you know very seriously, is the question, is there going to be some kind of break, some empty walk in one period, from the time the agencies are no longer doing their own, that jurisdiction of the supervisory of the banks, until the time when the Central Bank is able to do that job. In that part, I am not sure that it will be of great benefit that we will speed up the process of passing laws by a shortened procedure, unless the Central Bank takes action, therefore, to prepare itself, to take over these powers within 11 reasonable but very short periods of time. And in that part, I think if we chose to go in a short procedure, we'd be here. What I'm talking about, we have two parts – the law and the application of that law. There must not be a break here for one minute in the activities that are happening. But not a minute because banks work, work, watch out. So the question now is where do we get, where do we lose, or can we agree to synchronise activities, that the period we spend under quotes or use to prepare laws is also used to prepare institutions operationally, that when they get the law that they can function. If not, is the proposed text proposal clear enough today and answers the question – will some of the activities carried out by the entity banking agency at this time be really frozen in the next two months, while perhaps the same people who are now employed in entity agencies are employed in the Central Bank until they get the office, while they get the papers, while they get some jurisdiction, while they bring in sublegal acts. Because the Central Bank doesn't have any sublaws now, it can't pass them until it gets the law. He can prepare them, but he can't bring them. Now that's one question, and I think it would be useful for any further decision to understand the answer to that question. Or the answer will be to say until the day of that and that, all these supervisory activities are being done by entity agencies, and from that day on, the Central Bank is working literally from that day on. So it can't be and shouldn't be an empty walk. Because, please, I mean the whole economy, the whole life has existed at the functioning of banks. Supervision is a daily job, because it has these two aspects of issuing licenses and withdrawing licenses and overseeing bank work. It's a day-to-day operation. The agencies work less daily in one of the banks and have the opportunity to react daily, etc. Now, this part is very important in my opinion, that we as someone who doesn't do the day-to-day work, but who makes decisions to understand it and find a form together with the proposing, the formal presidency, but basically the Central Bank behind this job and the entity agencies to find solutions so there's no empty walk at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3783	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Here, I'll ask Mrs. Žigić to speak further.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3784	Well, I have to say that since February, we've been preparing for the transfer of supervisory to the Central Bank's wing, why is this all now brought in in December, it would be a long time to explain. I don't think there's any point to that right now. However, I want to say this, we are aware that it must not be interrupted for one second and certainly will not be interrupted, the agencies remain Federal and the Agency of Republika Srpska and with people both in full composition and in the rooms where they are now. So that's not going to happen, and we're already preparing for these technical actions, meaning for taking over workers and for all the administrative things that have to be to, when agencies join the Central Bank. As for acts in the Law, acts now in force will be applied for 6 months until the alignment and adoption of acts by the Central Bank is carried out. So what I'm trying to say is that we've really been getting really serious about this job and I realize your fear that we can't get to a single second of chaos and here's if I can say I guarantee it, but I can just say that we're getting really serious about this job. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3785	I thank Mrs. Žigić. No more reported for this agenda item. I'm closing the debate. Who is it that the Law is being considered in accordance with Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I'm opening a vote. Unanimity, 15 for. So it will be considered under Article 99 of this Law. A kind announcement of the next eightth point, the agenda is the arrival of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić, I welcome him. So the next point is Ad.8. Proposal for a tax on additional value (VAT) – second reading There is therefore a debate on amendments and votes on the law. The House of Representatives passed the Law at the 46th session, held on 4 November 2004 with 29 amendments. At the 28th session of the House of Peoples, the Law was adopted in the first reading. The meeting requires that the committee in charge in accordance with Article 90(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations draw up a new report on the Bill of Taxes on additional value, you have received a new report from the competent commission. The Commission has adopted two amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the draft law. Here you go. We'll daći the word first to the President of the Commission. You want it or you want it. We'll give the word to the promoter. I'm sorry. Mr. Terzić, chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3786	Thank you very much, gentlemen of the delegates, before you there is a proposal for a tax on additional value that has so far received the support of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board of Entity Governments, Council of Ministers and your Administrative Financial Commission. So far discussions on the VAT law for me, regardless of all and some bile tones, etc. They represent a great encouragement since, if you have noticed, this is the first law in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the signing of the Dayton Agreement, which was not colored by national paint, but by the colors of interest groups and colours that were mostly heading towards the difference between position and opposition. In preparation for this session, we have provided you with more materials from which you can see why we support and why we expect that you will also support the proposal for a law that generally proposes the following: - the introduction of VAT in Bosnia and Herzegovina since 01.07.2015, - the introduction of a single VAT rate of 17%, - the introduction of a company registration threshold of 50,000 KM and - the introduction of a zero export rate, so the application of the Sixth European Directive. 13 During the preparation of the Law, we have been working on a number of quantitative analyses that clearly point to the conclusion that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs a single VAT rate. This analysis was supported by the entity prime ministers, and in the materials you received our joint statement regarding the introduction of VAT. In public, but also during the debate at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives, I would say with the right to place an emphasis on the need to adopt a solution that will ensure greater scope of social protection for all those categories of less wealthy citizens who could be affected by the possible collection of life supplies due to the introduction of VAT. However, despite the fact that we do not politicise the content of this law on a national basis, I cannot notice that under the firm, alleged aid to the poor, poor with the abundant use of political methods is actually proposed and solutions that far more correspond to the population with a higher standard of living. Namely, solutions are proposed for introducing differentiated tax rates which are equally exempt from paying taxes the poorest and richest. Differentiated rates far more correspond to the population with a higher standard of living because they have higher pay power and more spending. Our constitutive analyses carried out on a sample of bread, milk and edible oil have shown that the possible accumulation caused by the introduction of a single VAT rate could further overload the budget of the poorest categories of the population by about 40 to 50 million KM per year. At the same time, the population with a higher standard of living would be spared about 250 million KM of VAT-based taxes, which would be a clean annual loss of fiscal income that the country cannot and should not be denied. What is particularly worrying is the fact that double rates, in addition to the greater benefit of the richer part of the population, would have been particularly favourable to smugglers and organised crime, as well as to the expansion of the grey economy that is already large and poses an obstacle to the rapid growth of the private sector, attracting foreign investment, pension growth and employment. In view of this, we believe that it is necessary to go to one rate of VAT, as a more effective finding of public revenue collection and a reduction of the grey economy, but that until the introduction of the VAT, we need to prepare social protection measures, which would mitigate the consequences of the possible collection of basic life intentions, but only according to the poorest categories of the population. You noticed that I often use the notion of a potential price increase. Let me explain this to you on the example of the bread that we specifically worked on. Namely, there is no guarantee that under zero-foot conditions there will be no collection of bread. On the other hand, our analysis shows that there is no specific justification for increasing bread prices and conditions of introducing a single rate, and that it could increase to 10% maximum. In fact, at the price of bread, far more affects the price of flour, the price of fuel. Introducing a 17% rate should lead to a reduction in oil prices. Some favors, like. Transport, which is now subject to sales tax, will not be charged with VAT, which should affect the reduction of one part of the price of flour. In addition, oil prices are expected to continue on the international market, and all estimates suggest it could fall by 30% by 2006. As an illustration of the price of oil affects the increase in the price of bread, we will point out that in 2004, regardless of the drought and expensive flour, he did not collect bread, but he collected it because of the rise in oil prices. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the 17% VAT rate, which is usually one of the lowest in the region, will not have a crucial impact on price growth and that other factors will have a far greater impact on this. However, we are aware that traders could take advantage of the opportunity and unjustly increase prices for 14 superprofits. In order to warn us, we are considering introducing a special control mechanism to monitor the growth of bread prices in the first year of VAT application, with the participation of the NGO sector. We also have experience in some countries in Europe, such as France, which for a time even frozen the price of bread when VAT was introduced. Finally, let me give you an example of Montenegro, which the VAT introduced almost two years ago. Given the similarity of our economies, the high size of the grey economy, similar rates of sales taxes and the fact that Montenegro has also introduced a 17% single VAT rate, I appreciate that this is the best example we need to study to gain insight into the possible effects of VAT introduction in our country. It is particularly important to note that Montenegro has also worked parallelly with the introduction of VAT to establish and strengthen the new tax administration for indirect taxation. Today, we have shared several charts that clearly indicate that the effect that we also want to achieve in BiH has been achieved in Montenegro. In the first row, the level of public revenues increased by only one year of VAT administration by about 55% and in this year 2004, it is expected to be almost doubled compared to the level of public revenues before the introduction of VAT, which allowed the average pension growth of around 10% annually. The average pension in Montenegro is higher than the average pension in BiH by about 35%. No trend in consumer basket prices has been observed after the introduction of VAT, except in some small extent. Before the introduction of the maximum price increase was up to 7% and after the introduction of the VAT, up to 8%. This adds that other factors affect price growth to a far greater extent than tax growth. Especially because of the low VAT rates of 17%. Before the introduction of the VAT, there was about 45% of Montenegro's grey economy, while in this year its participation is about 30% lower than in our country. I am aware that it is attractive for many politicians to represent differentiated rates, because it is easier for them to glean peoples' sympathy and political points. However, let me make a few observations of prominent scientists in the field of fiscal economy, among them the most famous Mr. Tajt, who have influenced the introduction of a single VAT rate in transition almost all countries, and only after a time when they strengthen tax administrations, to a differentiated rate. On the subject of the introduction of one or more VAT rates in transition countries, Tajt said at the consultation of economists in 1998: the answer to the question, one or more rates, in the theory of VAT was easily and generally accepted. Wherever political opportunities allow, one cannon should be introduced, i.e. It is necessary to introduce as few rates as it will satisfy politicians, which says that the number of rates is a political category rather than an economic category. All scientific workers from this region agree that the indirect taxation system is not the most suitable means of equating social differences, and that the system of direct taxes is much more suitable for this. It is important to point out that, in addition to reforming indirect taxes, we are reforming income tax and profit that will ensure an additional distribution of national wealth in favour of poorer layers of the population. In view of the forwards, I would like to point out again what the three prime ministers said about the introduction of VAT, which is that together with the entity governments, we are ready to define by the end of February the measures of social protection of the most vulnerable, which would have taken effect parallel with the introduction of an additional value tax. Repeat, we are particularly prepared to ensure price growth monitoring in order to prevent abuses and without reason the collection of prices of products in BiH. 15 In the end, let me highlight the importance of introducing VAT as soon as possible. Since next year, BiH will be the only country in the region that does not have VAT, which will put our export sector in a more difficult position. With this I propose that today we adopt the draft VAT law and work together to achieve all the assumptions that the VAT is starting to be introduced into BiH since 01.07.2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3787	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić. The President of the Commission, will you? Mr. Radović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3788	Gentlemen chairing, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Financial Administrative Affairs of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, at its 22nd session held on 09.12, discussed in accordance with Rule 79(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Proposal for a Law on Tax on Additional Value. At that session, we had more amendments to Mr. Pamuk and the amendments to the College of our House. In the debate, they were redefined and most of these amendments related to the shift in the period of application of the VAT Act. It is also on the basis of Zaljica Dom, that the new circumstances that led to the debate on this law, which is very important, our commission, had in mind the adoption of the text of the law which was at the House of Representatives with 27 amendments. In particular, Article 23, which spoke of a higher rate, taking into account such a conclusion and in view of the fact that a wrong picture was created in our public about VAT. The fact is that VAT, the introduction of VAT will be burdened by a consumer basket and our concern is to protect the poorest. Also, a wrong picture was created that more rates, less burdens the least economically endangered categories were incorrect. And that's why the commission said, so besides this, that, besides these adopted amendments and the proposed text, they had to adopt appropriate conclusions that would be some kind of exit from the existing situation where there would be a lot of problems with agreeing to the single text. So, what the Commission is proposing to me at the House now is to adopt the proposed text to the House and the one adopted by the House of Representatives, so I would say this, so the conclusion of the Commission is: to adopt the proposed text as proposed by the promoter with a single rate, with this in mind all that I have previously stated and the presentation of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, so the Commission proposes to the House the following conclusions: therefore, the Council of Ministers is in charge that, together with entity governments, we make social programmes for the most vulnerable categories of population, by the end of 2005, and this is our obligation from this strategy that we adopt, the medium-term passion of development of BiH, where we have said that our primary priority is to combat poverty. Furthermore, it is up to the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for indirect taxation that as soon as possible with technical preparations for the introduction of VAT, precisely because we remain the only country in the region without VAT, and there are favourable circumstances that our poor external trade balance is disrupted, that we go into a larger deficit externally. And the third conclusion, it is up to the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for Indirect Taxation to undertake the necessary activities in better informing the public and creating overall images of the effects of VAT implementation, the importance and the problems it will introduce. The fact is, at this point in time for BiH, the single rate is much more acceptable. It is indisputable that VAT at a higher rate of 16 is better, but let us be prepared for technical reasons, for economic reasons, for all these reasons that make the environment that at this time VAT is a unique VAT rate is acceptable to us but that it has not received enough arguments in public opinion, especially in means of informing where we presented the wrong picture, that VAT save for lower categories. This best says this example of what the Chairman of the Council said for certain purposes, so those in the basket, that is bread, milk, where there is no guarantee that the rate will no longer mean an increase in that basket. The commission therefore proposes to adopt the proposed text of the law with a single rate, with these conclusions attached by the Commission to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3789	I believe it's clear to everyone now about the VAT Act. We have several speakers reported. It's Mr. Brka's turn first.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3790	I'm grateful, and I just want to say a few sentences as a member of the committee. Mr. Nada Radović is indeed like the President (?) stated the Commission's position as we made the decision. But I want to say something, because I think you should say it in this place. In the preparation of all the legal acts that come to this Parliament, to this House here, I think sometimes very much lacks real information, not just for us here, but for the public. It's usually very familiar, you'll all agree for sure, that what people from the Council of Ministers or from the entity government are proposing, comes very often to the point of criticism, very fiercely, because very few people who actually do these projects get places in public. They always get more public seats than those people who sell fog, like last night at "60 minutes," a famous former Federal government minister, a well-known fog salesman, said what he was saying. As a result, the public accepts the critics of the authorities more easily, and that makes it easier for the people to accept it. But here it is my suggestion, in fact, that the Council of Ministers, with much more arguments before the adoption of some important laws, with much more facts, goes public and prepares the public for the adoption of a certain law. I have the impression that in this case, that's exactly what was missing. And that's why it makes sense for me that the opposition always attack, and you know who attacks the most. That's logical, but it doesn't make sense that the opposition in the media have 95% of the place to work and attack and 5% of the media has the most responsible in this country, in this time of the adoption of these legal projects. That's why I think that, as we as the House in the rest, I am also known as a critic that our information in Parliament is not on the level because very little is going public, what we do here is much more critical of what we do than what we actually need to do. Now the press will say, it's always our fault. It's not their fault, it's those services that need to be provided to journalists with certain information they don't often have. That's why I volunteered to say this, because I think the people need to be explained in an argument, the facts of what it is and then it wouldn't come to these delusions, I'm absolutely sure that with good social programs, I heard this morning that there are them, but I do not know what they are, I've heard that there are them on... the levels, social programs but they don't have money, if they have it, and if they don't have a good conclusion on the Commission 17 we suggested to the House to make quality social programs, and with some analyses, they've called me people by phone, businessmen that I actually got a real surprise last night, because I thought they would be at a differentiated rate. However, 3-4 people from different parts of BiH called me last night who are in business, I am not in business, they are in business, and they say, they need a single rate precisely for crime. And that's why I think it takes a lot more facts in public, with a lot more arguments, and then the people will accept it much easier and much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3791	I'd like to thank my colleague, Brk. Mr Tomislav Limov, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3792	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, I don't see the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so I wanted to say my feeling, it's quite clear that today's debate will drop from the tone of the debate that we had in September this year, on the same subject, when we came forward and supported the differentiated rates. Of course, this isn't a simple question, and there's something called a consensus, which is that no one has ever really gotten up and said we don't need a VAT. So we need VAT, and I think we need to pass the VAT Act. So that's what's undeniable. And now it's perfectly normal for people to have their own proper views and use appropriate arguments. I will personally stay because despite respecting the efforts of the Council of Ministers and the esteemed chairman of our committee, I am not convinced that I need to change my position on this issue, the more so when we compare the fact that in six EU countries we have four feet, counting naturally zero, in ten countries we have three, in nine countries we have two and there is not one that has only one. It is clear, therefore, that we will not have a role model for the countries of the European Union that we are seeking. One day, in some other circumstances, we will have a debate over the introduction of the second or third or I don't know how many steps, we will leave it to the time they didn't want to, and I personally believe that, regardless of certain calculations, they will be able to talk about the direction of what the distinguished Prime Minister Terzić was talking about, however, by applying a unique rate of wealth, they will become even richer, poorer. I'm sure with this VAT, we have two programs. One programme on the protection of socially endangered categories and another programme on incentives, primarily our production thinking of agricultural but other forms of production, I'm sure this would go a long way easier, because then it would simply be an argument that goes to the side of those who do not believe the elements that are being read. Look, at the last session, we found that every fifth man is on average in BiH, and that's the data from our document that we've been reviewing, and about the medium-term development strategy, so there's a standard below the poverty line. It's different in both entities, but it's less important. The fact is, I believe the number of poor will be increased. Namely, he will collect the products he warned the prime minister of, no matter what we think and what calculations he did, so from bread, milk, medicine, children's needs, so from child food, and I know that on the other hand he'll get the cheap planes, the cheap, Mr. brkati comes out he last said that he calculated at 10% of this super-differentiated rate, as it says, that Mercedes won't pick up, here I'm telling him that he will, so he'll be cheap, he won't pick up, but he'll get the planes, Mercedes, gold watches, whiskey, etc. I think it must be taken care of our country's paying power, which is objectively below the level of many other countries in transition, and that it is difficult to disprove expectations of improving poverty. Furthermore, by processing agricultural products and under current conditions, it is difficult to oppose ino competition, although they are exempt from tax rates for many agricultural products. I think that in this way we will bring into a difficult position domestic production of finished products because it will disappear the possibility that raw materials producers place primary products to domestic processors. If the placement and 18 are realized, the ransom prices will be in many cases below the cost of production, which will lead to the collapse of primary production and in such conditions I am really afraid of the awakening of so-called. The black market. There's one piece of information that's indicative. I'll end up with that, of course. In the first six months of this year, the number of cargo vehicles, the truck is either, was reduced in BiH's entry by 12%. On those 300 so-called. Wild crossings, the number of those vehicles has increased. I assure you because every vehicle that comes from the direction of the Republic of Croatia passes in front of my house, it is irregular and that number of these vehicles is significant and I think it covers those 12%, I am not going to engage now. So, of course I understand that the outcome of this will be as Mr. President asked and this, as far as I'm concerned, I will remain with my respecting therefore that this question is certainly one of the most important things and time will show therefore whose argument was stronger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3793	I thank my colleague Limov. The next speaker is Mr. Đoko Pajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3794	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, at the 28th session of this House, since 9 September of this year, I was certified as a mandate in this House and then on the day before that, I received the proposal for a law on VAT and at the very session of the House I received a report from the Administrative Financial, Financial and Administrative Commission of this House where three amendments were proposed to the proposed VAT bill, i.e. the introduction of differentiated rates at three rates, i.e. 20, 10 and zero rates. My colleagues were already talking about it, I didn't participate in the discussion at the time, I didn't even have the opportunity to make amendments because I had passed the amendment phase, but I had thought for two days about all aspects of the introduction of the tax on additional value, because to note, I worked long in the Tax Administration, I was an inspector of the income administration and I was also familiar with this problem until then and after the discussion, to remind Mr. Nad Radović, Hasan Čengić, Osman Brk, Tomislav Limov, Branko Zrn, Velimir Jukić, Mustafa Pamuk, at that session, I was really pleased with all these discussions and all of this, the gentlemen I mentioned in my discussions, it was in some of my thinking about all these elements that should be incorporated into the tax on additional values. And of course, I didn't even want to discuss it, since then, there have been many debates over the tax on extra value. I am, of course, incentivising to this point, coming from a poorer part of the population and the RS and BiH, and I believe this is not a political issue and that fear has entered a large number of BiH citizens on the issue of introducing an additional value tax. I personally believe, and I am convinced that the introduction of a single VAT rate will significantly jeopardise the difficult situation of the huge number of socially endangered BiH population. It's my personal conviction, and I can't give it up. I believe that the House of Representatives has made a lot of efforts to find a compromise between what the Proposer, or the Council of Ministers and what was adopted at the 28th session as the conclusion of this House. So, the promoter proposed a single rate, we then proposed, and in that conclusion the House of Nations supports the principle of introducing differentiated rates in the proposal for a tax on additional value. And I think, I really believe that the House of Representatives has made a lot of efforts to find one responsible compromise between these two proposals and I am convinced that what the House of Representatives adopted is more realistic than to introduce a uniform rate. And that's why, I think I'm up for the introduction of VAT, of course, I'm not against VAT, but I think the more realistic variant adopted by the House of Representatives is, and that's why this time I won't vote against either tax, I'll be held back. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3795	I thank Mr. Pajić. Here, the prime minister gave me a signal that he would like to say, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3796	I would just look back briefly, so that delegates in discussions and in certain legalitys would not repeat themselves. So first of all, what Mr. Limov was talking about, we got the Association of Agricultural Producers to support one rate of 17%. We received from the BiH Employers' Association support for one rate of 17%. So it's not like we can't say we're having political discussions here. We still have political discussions. As I said at the House of Representatives, we simply here and would not want it to be seen as a debate about who knows more and who knows less about VAT. This is about the essence that BiH remains the only country in the region that has no VAT since 01.01.2005. And that simply for these reasons, we need to introduce VAT urgently and efficiently. The threshold of 50,000 KM has just been determined because of this fast and efficient, fast and efficient introduction of VAT in view of the administration that will deal with this. You know, that indirect taxation management, the laws that we passed at the end of last year, is only this year being established, you at the Indirect Taxation Authority have that we're just holding back a department that will deal with VAT. The state must prepare for the introduction of VAT. Any person who, under the law, has to be covered by VAT must undergo certain training, this must be provided to him by the Direct Taxation Authority. A first-row management must keep records of all those who, under the law, enter into the obligation to pay VAT. This threshold of 50,000 KM, which is the highest in the region, I think is about 30 kuna in Croatia, is just set up because we came through calculations to cover 95% of the turnover in BiH and about 20,000 businesses. This fact that 20,000 are business entities, leaves us with the possibility that with this degree of development, the tax administrations can count on us to succeed in the following year and to make a record and train all those to whom it applies. If we have differentiated rates, at least twice the number of business entities we're going to have to include, which we're going to have to prepare, learn how to do it. And now, if we want to introduce VAT in 2005, then we can only use these elements. If we're going with other elements, as Mr. Pajih says, and how has the House of Representatives defined itself, then we're going to introduce the VAT in two years. So this is not about who knows more about VAT, but who knows where we can quickly and effectively do it. And I just suppose, and I expect that from the MPs at the House of Representatives, that they have confidence, that we in the executive government know more about what we have, than this one, the MPs themselves. And so I ask you, in this light, to observe a debate over one step. We can put forward social programmes to provide protection for vulnerable people for possible purchases that will result from this introduction of VAT. We can provide that, and ultimately, in your hands is an absolute control mechanism. If we don't convince you by social programs, that the most endangered residents will be protected by the introduction of VAT, you can simply change the date of introduction, you can and then this one, talk about double rates. But why miss the opportunity to introduce VAT quickly and efficiently in BiH. Because we're afraid of something. Isn't it easier then to give the Council of Ministers' trust, the Directorate for indirect caution, to entity governments that in policy direction, as we have suggested in our proposal for a VAT law, we try to do it in a quick and efficient way, with the guarantee that there will be no disturbance, what will happen. Finally, since 01.01.2005, we will have a unique Law on Tax on Transport of Products and Services in BiH and a single Act on Excises in BiH. These two laws will be implemented for six months before VAT is introduced and these two laws will then allow maybe a month before, somewhere in the sixth month, to come out with a six-month 20 report on how the application of these laws reflects on this one, price stability and budget filling, etc. But let's not talk about the subject right now if one 17% rate is supported today, a threshold of 50,000 km, that cataclysm will happen tomorrow in BiH. Nothing's gonna happen. Only we will have the opportunity to try to make preparations by the seventh month and start introducing VAT, and the complete re-indentation, the complete mechanism of controlling the introduction of VAT is again in the hands of MPs and delegates. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3797	Thank you, Chairman Terzić. Rijeka has a colleague Velimir Jukić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3798	Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the Council of Ministers, members of the International Community, dear guests. I'll do it very briefly, I even thought I wouldn't talk, but here's a few of my thoughts about VAT I'll say. I think it is necessary to introduce the VAT as soon as possible and that is most important for BiH. We are witnessing major evasion, tax and heavy charge, low budget charge at all levels of government. Tax bonds are very skilled in avoiding their tax obligations, and I therefore believe that the introduction of VAT is very important and important, and it is a quick introduction. Also, to quickly introduce VAT, the VAT system is important to make it as simple as possible. What's a question for me, or questions are a few of the following things, which is the height of the 17% VAT rate. It is the lowest in the region and it is, of course, stimulating for investment, investment, etc. However, the question is whether this rate is high enough to ensure everything we want, which is primarily the financing of good and quality social programmes because they are the guarantee that the poorest layers of our society will not be left without adequate social protection. However, the second question that is also a question for me is also the height of the total income threshold that we have asked as a PDV obligor, 50 thousand marks, which is a moment ago commented by the prime minister, and I am also sure that this is low enough or I think that this threshold is too high, but if we have the fact that we want to introduce the VAT quickly, then it is the only way to justify it, it is my personal opinion and thinking, not just mine, but the people I have talked to, preparing for this session, or to discuss this issue. And because of this height of the threshold, a significant number, however, will remain out of VAT reach. There's a number of several thousand, four or five thousand, which isn't a small number. I'm afraid that because of this relatively high threshold, the subjects will think that they may be shared in less and thus avoid the obligation to be VAT bonds. I think this fact, the administration and all those involved, the resolution ministries, the Council of Ministers, should be kept in mind. Furthermore, when it is also referred to as VAT and as market regulator, then also about the VAT system, i.e. more than or one rate, etc. as some driving developments, etc., then VAT levels or different rates, as a generator of development in the economy, I think that makes sense and logic, i.e. the objection that the differentiated rate is better, but we are not at that stage responsibly arguing that we can quality introduce such VAT for a short time. I am also convinced that we will be thinking very seriously about this in a year or two after the introduction of the VAT. So today I would suggest that one of our conclusions be that way. Therefore, after a maximum of one year of VAT administration, quality information shall be made on all its effects in application and then there shall be one obligation to consider the need to introduce additional VAT rates. And then we would give right maybe to those who are thinking, who are severely buried on their claims and attitudes that VAT is at a higher rate better, etc. 21 So here were my basic observations and considerations and doubts, and finally one as a contribution, so the conclusion that a quality report on all its effects is made for a maximum year from the date of administration of the VAT and the possibility of introducing additional VAT rates. Here, I really wouldn't be long, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3799	I thank my colleague Jukić, here I really think we've said a lot and heard a lot of each other and for a long time here in the parliamentary procedure is this law. Here I see a fellow Genjac just picked up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3800	Dear chairman, respected guests, members of the Council of Ministers, chairman of the Council of Ministers, colleagues, I would like to hear a few answers to a few questions about the process by representatives of the Council of Ministers before a definitive discussion. So, in order to be able to define a final discussion, to contribute perhaps in a state of conclusion, to some final points, and I think that is necessary, in order to preserve both the issue of dignity and the Council of Ministers and both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly in this process. So, I would like to be answered, therefore, according to the VAT development project that KAFAO has created with the VAT working group and this project is comprehensive, as it is said, with allocated activity flows, I would ask someone to tell me according to this project, at which percentage the staff issue is realised, at which percentage the issue of the IT system is realised and at which percentage is the issue of spatial capacities for regional centres and offices that are large numbers? That's one question. The second question, did the Management Board, i.e. the Direct Taxation Authority, form a VAT implementation team, because it is one of the measures necessary to prepare the VAT and implementation...agreed, what has this VAT Implementation Committee done so far, to what extent has it achieved its plans? So that's the next question. Finally, it is known that during June there was an IMF task force in BiH, which came here at the request of the chairman of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, Mr Dikson and the IMF task force made up one draft, a working material which was, of course, available to the Council of Ministers and a working group to draft this law. It is known that the EU Customs and Fiscal Assistance Office has played a significant role in drawing up this law. It is known that the law, along with the working group, has definitely experienced a specific version of this group. I am interested in whether there is an estimate, how much money has been paid to hire foreign experts in this task force that came before the IMF, and how much money has been spent on hiring foreign officials in the EU Customs and Fiscal Assistance Office, orientativeally, at least how many funds and consultations with experts and the involvement of foreign experts, how much funds have been spent on this to achieve a definitive version of the law? So, I'd like to ask an answer and then I'll get involved in the discussion afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3801	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Delegates, I don't see anyone reported. Here's Mr. Terzić. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3802	First, to take the opportunity to say that Mr. Jukić has justifiable fear, as we do, that this is too high a threshold. And surely the speed, the speed needed for the introduction of VAT, has defined us to go with this threshold, with clear and our concern that some of the abuses that are relevant to all societies and so on may happen to BH. We still took this high threshold, counting on two elements. First that the moment we capture and when we start charging this VAT from business entities that are legally covered by such a high threshold, we can in some time period from six months to a year and we intend to lower that threshold. And that's the practice of all the countries that introduced VAT. And the second element is that, as in all countries, the discussions before VAT was introduced were huge. After three months of VAT introduction, no one has discussed anything anymore, but everyone has seen that both those who are not and have an interest, which are not covered by the programme, apply., because this threshold does not exclude those companies that do not have 50,000 KM traffic per year, so our assumption is that we will also have one large percentage of those companies that are legally not required to apply, that in the first few months of BiH VAT lives themselves apply for this, the record. So we have this fear, too, and I don't think as a government, we have any fear, but we are ready to intervene and follow the situation in that area and intervene if these abuses are mentioned by Mr. Jukić. Mr Genjac, the answer, when it comes to the establishment of the Directorate for Indirect Taxation, I also told the Commission of your House, when we talked about the amendments and this law, and suggested that the Director of the Directorate for Indirect Taxation and the Council of Ministers and the Representative and the House of Nations be informed, firstly as we arrived at the implementation of the Law on indirect Taxation, secondly after the adoption of the law in the text proposed by the Council of Ministers, each month we have one piece of information on how to monitor this,...what the Governing Board has given itself the task. When it comes to funds. I know, and I know, as far as I know, that the price of what the IMF was doing in BiH in that analysis is zero, and how much it was spent on experts and on the work of expert teams who prepared the law for the Directorate for indirect taxation, I think we should use a delegate issue to help us, too, so let's ask KAFAO, because it was KAFAO who ran this, which had a certain amount of funds from the CARS programme from the European Commission and it was all in their organization.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3803	Thank you President Terzić, Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3804	The Genjac said he'd continue the discussion after the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3805	I don't mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3806	I thank you for the answer, of course. Whether it's a parliamentary question or otherwise, but we're going to add an answer to the question of how much it costs to hire experts around and these areas and similar and how much credit resources are spent on using these experts and the services of these experts. Nothing's wrong with that. That fact exists. The nature of these issues is, in fact, impossible to separate from the context and the ambience in which this law is being discussed. I will remind you that there are three political party presidents sitting in the Council of Ministers. The three political party presidents are enough to convince their delegates and that that is enough for one deputy vice president of the political party who was for this concept to support the House of Representatives for the Law. If BiH institutions hire foreign experts, if they hire IMF experts, if they have hired CAFAO in accordance with the applicable agreements and if this CAFAO uses in front of the European Commission to support and assist the development of the fiscal and tax system in BiH, if this is its role and if these institutions create a very detailed, elaborated project, explained thoroughly. It is only strange to me that members of the Council of Ministers who are behind this project are not suspicious and if the presidents of political parties are unable to explain to their members who are in the House of Representatives about the importance and necessity and the need for the adoption of this law. And it happened at the House of Representatives what happened, it's the sovereign right of the House of Representatives, I understand. However, there was an argument there that as many questions as possible could be raised that would be placed in a zero rate, etc. The area, and there were few talks on where BiH with opportunities with institutions, with funds, with the capacity to implement VAT. Therefore, the presidents of political parties were not in a position to convince delegates from their parties to vote, to support a project that was given considerable funds, so it is not strange that the public, of course, was not convinced at all, convinced, especially when it comes to the fact that it is often on television that people who are late for terrible tax evasion and that they present VAT and that they are established as protectors of poverty etc. A little unfortunately, there were Council of Ministers in those activities. It happened at the House of Representatives, and between that and the possibility that the atmosphere had changed in the House of Peoples. It is very likely that here the atmosphere of the House of Nations will result in support of such a bill. And from the beginning, I was saying there's no alternative to it, there's just no alternative. There's no alternative. For the sake of the dignity of this house, for the sake of dignity and of the Council of Ministers, I think it is necessary to clarify the next thing. Why has there been a change of delegates from the same parties in relation to this proposal? What happened in the meantime? It happened in the meantime that the municipal elections had passed, one resignation had been announced, unless the same rate had been applied, or a single rate had been adopted. There have been several certain performances, writings by representatives of the international community, which could have been seen as a particular kind of perhaps even stronger suggestion, etc. I think it should have been explained that in the definition of this home, and quite certain I believe, therefore, this home and these delegates, and quite certain my definition had no impact on anyone, whether the municipal elections had passed, whether a resignation had been announced or accepted, whether there were certain suggestions etc. As far as I'm concerned, what every delegate could read from the material, from the VAT lab, in the process that he came to, we don't have that luxury at all to talk about the possibility, whether we have two or more feet. We don't have that luxury, I'm also thinking about whether or not we're going to start on July 1st to apply the provisions of this law. Given how busy it is in the Administration of Revenue, that it is very small, given how difficult this process is, given how much information system has not been solved yet, and that the conditions of 24 functions of the VAT system uniquely and binding the information system which costs both material resources and training, given the necessary training of the staff in the institutions, given the state of the other institutions, which are in some way continued with the Indirect Taxation Administration or the connection with the Indirect Taxation Administration, we do not have the luxury of talking about whether we are single or two feet, we simply do not have that luxury, and I think that the weights should have been thrown on these issues. What needs to be done, what needs to be done very urgently and very effectively to prepare BiH for a single rate of VAT application and to ensure that the monitoring structure ensures that VAT is implemented with one rate. Because, indeed, I repeat, we have no luxury, and before us is the time of July 1st we won't be able to ensure the application of VAT, or its most significant provisions, is simply my assessment, based on what I learned about the state of the Directorate for indirect taxation, the mood and not subjective, but the mood of experts who are able to work in the area of limited salaries, of the need for training of these people etc. So, I'm very skeptical and I don't think that's possible and I don't have the luxury to, unfortunately, talk about it. If we don't, we're not at all in a position to afford a luxury to talk about whether or not two feet. She's actually asking if we're going to start in '96. years to be able to spend a unique rate. When the most developed countries, countries with a constitutionalized system, a very functional system, are starting stability at a unique rate, I think it should have been very clear to the public that BiH with existing functioning, with existing relations, simply has no luxury of thinking. So, this is very, I think it's important to say that it's not that the House of Nations is determined depending on how the wind blows, or whether we get a statement from the ministers with or without their photos, I think that, therefore, by bringing in the prime ministers and their dignity, I think we should say it very clearly and should, therefore, clearly say exactly what condition we are about VAT, which are our necessity. And finally, then, I would like to finally propose, therefore, the conclusions that figure, which appear in front of the commission and which appear during the debate, it would be good to take a break to formulate the conclusions in a way that is more precise, more clear, more specific deadlines and more determined responsibility. So there are also suggestions and conclusions, which are good, which are set with vague deadlines, perpetrators, I think we could contribute to that in some pause that also very clearly the public shows the determination that there is no fog at all that the necessity of social assistance to those who will be affected and that it is very clear when it will be and how it will be and that these conclusions reflect that mood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3807	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. It is true that we have two conclusions in front of us, one is commissions, and one is Mr. Čengić, who are the same on occasion, only a little more precise than these commissions, and they have one more, but here, before we enter into this proposal, Mr. Genjac, I give my word to Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3808	Mr. Chairman, I am very pleased that we have the opportunity to talk today in a second reading of the Tax Act on Extra Value. 25 I'm not going to list all the formal reasons why this law should be discussed, because he's a package 40, one reformist, because this is, I think we should start with what's essential. We have a situation of slow but secure economic development and progress in this delight. We have an increase in exports situation and we have the fact that our imports and exports are still significantly burdened with imports, i.e. The trade deficit in this country is very high, unacceptably high for a country that wants to develop faster. We have in another situation the fact that we have significant categories of population, which are in that area that could be treated as an area of social care, protection and programme. In other words, we have one very clear position and the question of what are the measures, what are the methods that we can go faster forward. The medical dictionary, saying, and here are the doctors, needs to find some therapy that will be more effective than the existing one, so that the healing goes faster. The countries, not in the environment, but in all the countries that have ever experienced development in the last 50 years and over, apply what we are talking about today. So, tax on extra value. What is more specific to me is, not how to treat those who have suffered severe illnesses, but how can they be healthy so as not to suffer, but to create an ambience in which the sick will be stronger. That's the essence of this whole story. We cannot put forward the issues of social care and social programmes unless we have previously defined that we need to provide room for production. The conditions for production in BiH are only possible in two ways. Foreign investments and domestic activities, i.e. domestic production, from a domestic investor. This first depends on a set of conditions, including the existence of VAT law. The second, that domestic producers produce more, depends primarily on them having fair and correct conditions for sale. In other words, they are not exposed to unfair competition or brutally said they are not exposed to competition with smuggled goods. All those in this country, from those who live next to the border to those who live in the centre of this country, from those who produce and who sell, from those who pay obligations and who do not pay, know that there is a significant evasion of obligations on products that are being poisoned and trafficked in BiH. If there's an instrument that can be more effective than others to reduce evasion, to reduce smuggling, then it's VAT. And that's the way to increase production. With the increase in domestic production, we cheaper our domestic product, we get more domestic products on the domestic market, we open up space for new jobs, we provide more funds for pension funds, health, employment and more, and finally we get into the situation of raising our domestic economy to a higher level, which, with its product price, quality of products and services, will be competitive on the domestic and finally on the foreign market in order to get to the necessary position to reduce the trade deficit. I think this is the essence of the story we need to talk about. And for that reason, I put this in the first place, and then as a consequence of these activities, we come up with what might be called side or side effects on society, or on certain categories of population, in terms of burdening life costs. Which is also a fact. It would be good and it would be necessary if we had already had this, a clear presentation of these indicators. However, we will be clear and know precisely that at this time in our country, there are no institutions that have precise statistics, unfortunately. There are no institutions on whose statistics we can fully and fully base our estimates, so then we have to compare them with international statistics concerning BiH and get some approximation. Anyway, it's very clear that VAT is and I think that we all agree, the way and the way to solve these big issues and move forward faster. I'm going to move on to a very specific thing now. 26 Given the fact that the application of the Tax Act to additional value, in the first year, not calendar, but in the first 12 months, will show particularly negative effects on certain categories of population, I think it is necessary to adopt this first proposal proposed by our commission, perhaps slightly different in this proposal, and therefore I say, here in the second sentence, therefore the measures to be prepared, to propose the BH Council of Ministers and Entity Government, these measures, which will include the criteria for the allocation of funds. So to define who the real categories are. Look, we often have fog in front of us today, and when we talk about social measures, we don't have a clear picture of what the criteria really apply to. Are now categories of someone who has a basket of life intentions, are the categories that fall into this, are those who receive minimum wage or are categories that receive a minimum pension or are categories of those who do not have any employment. So that's the question now. So these measures, which will include the criteria for the allocation of funds and resources for their insurance, will be presented to the Parliamentary Assembly. I didn't go here more precisely, nor did the commission go more precisely, with a very clear view. The Council of Ministers of Entity Governments is required to define the two now. Where they get the money and how they're going to spend it, which means eventually legal measures, which laws and sublaws need to be additionally adopted in order to make this possible. The next thing you know, it's probably going to be some sort of set of laws that solve these issues. The next question, no big dilemma, all agree, and those who support this solution, so with one or more rates, with a higher or lower threshold for VAT obligations, we agree on one. Yes, so negative effects, i.e. increased pressures on enterprises that now have to pay obligations for goods immediately at the border, that certain obligations towards pensioners and others, therefore whose funds are lower income, will be increased, there is no dilemma that these effects will show up in the first six months. It would be quite understandable, if we agreed here today, to really agree to apply these all measures, i.e. The application of the law does not enter into force, but the application must begin on 01.07. next year. When I say everyone, I'll be very clear. I know precisely that the Council of Ministers, the Directorate for indirect taxation, and other institutions in that area are leading in these obligations. We can't abolize ourselves. The Parliamentary Assembly runs politics in this country. The Parliamentary Assembly runs every policy, so it also leads this, economic and developmental and social. And he has to have his own attitude. And it must have the willingness and determination to take part in the obligations and risks and tasks and responsibilities of the job. That's why I invite you to work with the Council of Ministers even more and more often. The doubts raised are based on past experience and some formal facts. So, doubt that we may not be ready for 01.07. next year for application. When I say in some facts, the type of number of employees, the means, there are software, hardware, there are no, there are no spaces. However, we have other experiences. We showed in this year, as in last year, that when we really agree on something, and when we're determined to do it, we need to know one thing. By implementing these, so by implementing the VAT Act, we are really only harming those who live by the law, and all those who live within the law and benefit from the functioning of the law in this country. Some first day, some 60th day, some 180th or 360th day, but we use it. Therefore, I call on my esteemed colleagues, so that we are truly prepared to work from now on to the application of this law and its application with the Council of Ministers and others until the beginning of application and after application. This third conclusion is very important in my opinion for the next reason. We can come into a situation where, through the use of VAT, we can secure increased funds based on taxes. I believe that. I'm not going to tell you the numbers of a certain precise one, but the estimate is between 300 and 400 million marks could be increased within 12 months, from 200 to 400 here if you want, but it's also possible that if we make future decisions to reduce certain customs 27 obligations, or to be absent, then we're going to make income from that part that's very important, and it makes this whole smaller. This reduces the tax revenue effect and thus reduces the situation that we will not have enough resources. For this reason, it would be very important to agree that, at least in the following year, there is no change in customs rates and excise rates, counting that we must implement the obligations of bilateral agreements, which are already running towards our neighbouring countries and others. But then we don't take any new commitments and we don't reduce any further from now on, customs duties and excise duties, so we have these resources. And in this part, I'll be clear. I think we need to agree through conclusions or in another way, and I'm asking you to discuss it a little bit more, because it seems to me to be the only point we haven't specifically discussed, so that's what it is. There is no dilemma, it has shown the experience of all countries that, after 12 months of application of such a law, there is an increase in the gathering or collection of public revenue. Those funds will appear. We should figure out what to spend it on right now. I think it would be most common, to agree, to provide precisely from that surplus the resources for social protection measures, but not to eat everything, the other part of the means to provide for development projects or to encourage agriculture, employment, whatever we want to call it. What's that ratio? Is that half or half, or for this a little bit more or a little bit less, that's another thing and I think it should be defined now, and then flexiblely set. In the end, I'll be very clear. The most important thing is to get into the process. No Niko, absolutely no one can be, by any simulation, and I know that there are experts here to simulate these economic parameters, can be sure to the end that all effects will be positive and negative in a year. And that is why I support Mr Jukić's proposal, to agree and conclude, that after a year, therefore, based on analyses prepared by the Council of Ministers and all those working with the Council of Ministers, in the Parliamentary Assembly, we will discuss all the effects, positive, negative and debated measures to mitigate the negative and encourage the positive measures that will be caused by this application. In the end, this now looks like a brave move, I must say, don't be angry, it's not very brave. He's not very brave because he's being extorted. Because we have to do it. But something else is a fact, this law is formal reform essentially. This is a law that changes cultural habits. This is a law that changes the culture of a society, of a community. Whoever introduced this law has introduced new elements into the culture of that community, new customs. We didn't mention the fact that we're all going to control whoever's smuggling, by looking for an account for any favor. For any purchase, for any service, all in a row, and that everyone in the chain of production, from the first one who buys repromaterials, then the payload, so I don't know the half-product, will ask the previous account, so that we may be freed. So we're actually putting ourselves in line right now for VAT enforcement control. It's an entire culture. This is what those who study learn for years, and those who learn it through life will need even more time. So I'm saying, this law is something that's really one part of society's entire culture. For this reason, I feel it is necessary and I am taking the opportunity to express my dissatisfaction and share that dissatisfaction with almost all the colleagues who have discussed, in the part where those who have worked to pass this law, and have prepared it did not spend enough time and effort to provide more quality information for the public, including information for us here. For this reason, I believe that the Council of Ministers must indeed be in charge of developing a programme of the necessary information to the public, which must last for at least 12 months in which both citizens and economic operators and institutions will be well-informed, educated and prepared for both the start and the permanent application afterwards. 28 In the end, I thank everyone who worked on this law. I call upon my colleagues to give consent to this proposed text of the law, and I think that the suggestion, that is, the proposal of a respected koelga Genjac, to take a break in which the conclusions might be a little more precise, so that we have to oblige the competent institutions and ourselves for part of our duties. I believe that after that, we will be in a position to find a solution with the House of Representatives for the final text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3809	Thank you, Coelgi Čengić. A colleague of Neimarlija. I was going to suggest, I apologize if you'll excuse me, here's the Kolegijum agreed that we'd give Dom a really good time to take this break now and try to sublime this all that we've said on the basis of these conclusions. Here's what I'm going to do, of course, to an esteemed colleague, Neimallia, I don't mean to deny him, but I believe you'll agree with that, so, after the discussion of fellow Neimarlija, we're going to give a break up to half three, and before that, of course, we need to propose people who agree to these conclusions. Here's a colleague of Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3810	So, a colleague of the presidency, colleagues from the presidency, delegates, guests, the Council of Ministers chairman, without a reservation for the VAT law, I am aware of its importance for regulating BiH's economic space and its importance for strengthening our country's economic system, towards approaching Euro-Atlantic insituations. However, I will be restrained by expressing my abstention, disdain and dissension, with a media and particularly institutional presentation of this extremely important legislative project. Four and a half months ago, the bill was sent to parliamentary procedure. In the meantime, we have received only one text, as far as I know, of the Management Board of Direct Taxation, which explicitly recommends this one rate, which is the consequences or reasons of this, of my dissent, for the lack of adequate media presentation of this project. I will only give an example of the speaker that was already mentioned, who was on TV last night, in fact, one former politician who is now obviously an opposition on hold, who on several occasions performed as an expert and several times last night again presented the theoretically impossible thing, that the introduction of a VAT with one rate will automatically mean 17% of the collection of bread. It is theoretically possible that bread can collect 16.1%) but it is theoretically impossible to collect 17%, 4.5 months after being submitted to the parliamentary procedure of this extremely important legislative project, so we are still in a situation that is so media-accessed by the promoter, of the position, of the opposition official, that someone who is issued as an expert, here and before our session, can say that it will automatically and has repeated it several times, 17 times, which is theoretical nonsense. Because of this nonsense, as well as a whole series of, or a horrendous coma, I would say politician on hold, to whom he has every right, perhaps the media have the right to follow the logic of sensationalism, to produce sensations, and even on television, more sensationally, to say that bread will collect 17% than 9, 10, or I don't know 11%. But I keep them entitled to it. The legislator, the position had no right after 4.5 months to leave that space in which 4.5 months would confuse people with cheap politics and one terrible communication. For this reason, hoping that in future such important projects will be monitored not by a book which would be logical to go along with them, all indicators of their possible and conjecture and effects and all 29 others, but at least some paper that will at least half the script, so I think of this institutionally, we as Parliament have not received anything but one piece of paper in which, in one way, come on, here I do not know how to characterise it, explicitly recommend it, there is no need for parliamentarians on the part of one Management Board to make any explicit recommendations, it is enough to say that it is recommended. You know who is specifically recommended. And that's the only paper we got. For this reason, expecting such legal projects, this will not happen in the future, that I do not list other reasons for the additional that I might call, let's say the story of which has never been denied, that the representatives of the International Community have argued this one step in our informational, read mathematically, read by intellectual restriction, or by our limitations. We can afford a lot of things so we can think of each other as stupid, but there's not one nation in the world that allows another to keep him stupid. No Niko has denied it. I am afraid that, at some point in the development of the reason for this, there is also a point for which my colleague Radović, mentioned by Halid Genjac, who, of course, also spoke of by the prime minister, and where they are completely in agreement, but I think the promoter also made little reference to entering the scheme. It's not about our informational, intellectual and mathematical assumptions that we're dealing with various operations. It's about the fact that the prime minister was talking about is the fact that it's actually a state of affairs. However, this practical state has not even come to us in its objective indicators, and it could be given to us, especially to our public. So, I'll be restrained, hoping that with projects like this in the future it won't be like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3811	Thank you. I almost fully understand the frustration of this team and expect that, in the next period, discussions such as this discussion of Mr Neimarlija will contribute to these frustrations in this House as little as possible. I will give my word to President Terzić, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3812	Respecting Delegate Neimallia, I went out now not to replicate it, but because I usually intended to end the debate for both the public and all of this, and the ambience in which this, the debate on VAT, is happening, to say a few things that don't affect the outcome of your vote at all. So, I think it's, that all those who say we're unprepared for the VAT hearing are absolutely right. And I just want to remind you. The Council of Ministers is trying to speed up the introduction of VAT, trying to provide a single economic space in BiH as soon as possible six months before the deadline, the legal deadline that the Law on the Directorate for indirect taxation gave, and which ultimately expects Europe to expect from us, six months before the deadline, we agreed on the text of the law. It wasn't until the end of the year that the text of the law needed to be brought into line and the procedure started. We did it because we wanted to do it first, that absolutely not dependent on the international community, we are working on this project, we are looking at our economic situation and we are trying to unite economic space. The second reason why we did this was that the Administration for indirect taxation in the afterlife, had to have one let's say, clear proof that they had begun to function. You know that there were some laws on taxes in the Federation that I finally had to appeal to the Constitutional Court, 30 because there was no application of the Law on the Direct Taxation Administration and in that segment we started acting as a rule of BiH to pass the law and then this one, we don't apply it. The administration of indirect taxation is a control mechanism, respect for the Constitution. Taxes are under the Constitution exclusively in the jurisdiction of entities. That's why we have members from the entity governments, ministers from entity governments who have the right to veto any project that affects the scope of the tax. We have been able to reach consensus here, and this is the one qualitative leap compared to the government's so far and the council of ministers and entity governments who discussed VAT and you know very well that this, for many years, has been a talk of entity VAT and not of VAT in BiH. I am responsibly saying that here last night we had the opportunity to hear from some of Parliament's leaders, that no one from the International Community at the Council of Ministers on me, the finance minister, had put any pressure on us to commit ourselves to this kind of project. I responsibly claim that this is the project that we are running and that we consider to be the only one that is possible. And all the coincidences, the negative consequences of ebentual that the introduction of VAT could cause in BiH we, from me, to my associates to the Directorate for indirect taxation. So we also show that we are a team of people who are not hiding behind the international community. Never, no one has put pressure on us, which is constantly showing in public one rate of 17% that we have to do this, do this. A mistake where it was made, I must admit, I'm not a man who transfers responsibility, but a mistake has been made in the College of the House of Representatives who chose timing when we're going to go out with that law in a parliamentary debate. A month before the election, first of all, I couldn't dream of letting ourselves do it. No one was consulted, and they had a package of 46 laws that were from the Physibilities Study. The VAT wasn't from the Physibility Study and what I expected, as well as all this, and the Administration for indirect taxation was that after the election we'd start talking about this topic. Why? Because it is a fantastic polygon, that every political option, and there are about 50 and something in BiH, says its word about the law, and before the elections there is no way of not being such an attitude, to be the protection of the socially endangered, etc. That's why I said I wouldn't talk before the election, because my word would be 54 parties commenting, this way I have an opposition, I have this one, and some parts of the positions I'm entering the dialogue with. So, I absolutely accept that we weren't prepared for the debate, but we also didn't determine the timing of the debate. We only after maybe a month, two days, here we got in that hot atmosphere we got certain indicators that were clear to everyone, and that we could present to the public. So, here, it's also very important to me because of the Council of Ministers and myself, and also to you, to point out once again, no one from the International Community has pushed us and asked us to go this way. We got and Mr. Genjac was talking about the IMF report, we got a clear report with certain quantifications. And we have chosen to offer BiH this and we answer for it, without any reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3813	I thank President Terzić. I think there was an impression of what the fate of this law would be, i.e. I believe it will be adopted, but here is now how we agreed, before we give a break, i.e., the Kolegijum suggests that this break be used by one group composed of Mr Radović, Mr Čengić and Mr Jukić, to agree these proposed conclusions, so I give a break up to 15 to 3. 31 At the point of today's agenda, it's a proposal for a tax on extra value, we have it in a second reading. [[PAUZA]] We had a break, we appointed a committee to propose conclusions, here's the conclusion. You have them on your desk. I'm closing the debate, so maybe here's the first thing we should do is, if we read it, I'll ask the secretary to read the conclusions, so possibly if he has any objections. Read it to the secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3814	...and the Council of Ministers of BH and the entity government to ensure through measures of social protection and programmes the protection of the most vulnerable categories of the population, following the start of the application of the VAT Act. These measures, which will include the allocation criteria, sources for their insurance, will be presented to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly by the end of February 2005 at the latest. Such a commitment was also made by Prime Minister Terzić, Mikerević and Hadžipašić in connection with the introduction of the 01.12 VAT. In 2004. 1. It is up to the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH to carry out technical and personnel preparations to enable the application of this law from 01.07.2015, 2. It is required of the DGS BiH to cooperate fully in implementing the VAT Act, 3. It is recommended that in the next period, and for at least one year, the competent authorities retain the current customs obligations and comply with their rates according to the effects of the application of the VAT Act, 4. It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare a full analysis of the effects of the implementation and measures that will provide further positive results and an analysis of the possibility of introducing a higher rate after one year of application of the VAT Act. 5. It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to organise appropriate information to the public, citizens, business entities and state institutions in all aspects important for the implementation of the VAT law for the next 12 months, starting from 1 January 2005. It is necessary for the BiH Council of Ministers to propose funding for this purpose in the 2005 draft budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3815	I thank the secretary, if it's a mistake, Mr. brkati, you haven't called for a discussion. Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I'm closing the debate. First we vote on the law, we vote on the Tax Act on additional value in the second reading. I'm opening a vote. 1 abstention, 12 for, I find that the Tax Act has been adopted. And now we're going to come to terms with the harmonised conclusions that the task force has made. You heard them just now. 32 So, I am opening a vote on the conclusions of the House of Peoples. You can vote. 12 again for one abstention. So I find that there are conclusions adopted regarding the Tax Act on additional value. Now, since this law has been adopted in a different text than the law adopted in the House of Representatives, I would ask the club heads to propose members of the Commission to agree with colleagues from the House of Representatives. I'd like a colleague of the head of the Serbian club, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3816	Sir, nada Radović from the order of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3817	Please, Mr. Spajić in front of the Croatian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3818	In front of the Croatian people, Mr Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3819	Thank you. I pray to my fellow Genjac in front of the Bosniak people. Here you go, pal Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3820	So, I propose Dr. Genjac to be a member in front of our club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3821	Thank you. You heard the suggestions, Dr. Genjac, Mr. Jukić, Mr. Nada Radović. I'm opening a vote on a proposal from the board members. You can vote. This proposal has been adopted. So congratulations to the board members. We're going to the ninth point of today's agenda, that's Ad.9. The Special Report on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Election Registration issues for the exercise of an active electoral right and on the achievement of the passive voting rights of national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 2004 municipal elections, you have the report ahead of you. The House of Representatives adopted the report at the 45th session on 12 October 2004. I'm opening a dot on this one, on the agenda. I give my word to Mr Filipović. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3822	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I feel the need for just a few words. The constitutional-legislative commission has discussed this special report by the Ombudsman on the issues of voter registration in order to exercise an active electoral right and to exercise the passive voting rights of national minorities in BiH during the local elections. We discussed it almost a month ago, something even more. We have noted this report and have also assessed that the conclusions and recommendations contained in the Ombudsman's Human Rights Report are very acceptable. I propose that this House conduct a debate on this material, to accept it as it was suggested, as proposed by the ombudsmen and at the same time, since, in particular, the recommendations of the Ombudsmen require that amendments to the Election Law be made. Since local elections have yet to take place since the Electoral Commission has found all the proposals or suggestions in the Electoral Commission, we therefore propose to this House that, after discussing and accepting this material, all opinions from the field from the municipal election committees, make a conclusion that the electoral commission would be required to prepare in this sense amendments and supplement the Electoral Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3823	I thank the President of our Constitutional and Legal Commission to Mr Filipović. We have Mr. Ljubić's ombudsman present here, so here he can, if he wants to participate in the debate, and here comes Mr. brkati. Here you go. Here, he didn't sign up. Just got a chance if he wanted to.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3824	I thank and need to say a few sentences about this material that I have really read very carefully and really joined Mr Filipović who said that the Ombudsmans in this case were right. In fact, I have had an impression so far, and this material is proof to me that in fact, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina were the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina when elections and constitutional categories when it comes to citizens were something foreign to the state. It was simply a citizen who would decide whether or not he would participate, if he were to participate that the state was in fact practically not concerned whether people were going to go to the elections, which is very wrong. In particular, this applies to people who for certain reasons, not to elaborate now, we know why they live in large numbers outside, how they went out and out and what obstacles are put on them so they can participate in the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The best evidence is every next election where there are always fewer and fewer percentages of people going to the elections, which is actually for me to the state, not to the citizens. And what the Ombudsmeni have proposed, I really support and believe that the Election Commission, and also the parliament of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one and the other, must understand these objections with the most good sense and simply provide constitutionally what the Constitution provides for citizens. That's not what the state with this law has done so far. And indeed, I thank the ombudsmen in this case, although I very often have a critical approach to some of their solutions which I often disagree with, but I have the impression that they have now worked really without any pressure, independent of anyone and therefore they have come to such good conclusions. 34 I support them earnestly, and I hope that by the next election, we will have enough time to fix this current law which is as it is, unfortunately, so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3825	Thank you, Mr. Brki. I think it can be realized that even in this case when it comes to the ombudsmen, domestic people mean taking responsibility in their own hands and that's one of the bright examples. I'll Molić Mr. Ljubić to speak to you briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3826	The esteemed chairman, distinguished MPs, was the aim of this special report to consider the possibility of also taking action in the Electoral Law, but also in the predictive regulations that work on the Election Commission to remove administrative obstacles and opportunities for a greater number of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to vote in the elections. We feel justified to simply consider the possibility that much more than the competent domestic authorities are sharing orderly official records of citizens and their residence, because there are simply not all the remarks that we have received in the conduct of our investigation, because how can a man not be included in an 18-year-old electoral list? So they say it's hard. And how's that? Has anyone ever signed up for military service? Everyone got it when they turned up a number of years of calling to pick up. Thus, the bodies keeping official records can simply arrange it to enable a person to have the right to exercise his right to vote. If he's gonna use it, that's another question. In particular, it is very unfortunate for citizens of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina who do not live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have escaped, displaced, expelled, to be asked for certain documents that they can hardly reach, or if they can come. They've been embodiesded with high costs and very often and psychologically, and perhaps sometimes essential people are afraid to sign up for some records, because they're afraid they'll lose their rights where they have them. It's justifiable fear for that reason. I think that the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina should commit meanings by law, as well as by implementing regulations that the competent authorities use the possibility a little more means of exchanging official records and simply will not happen to us if we look at the number of registered bodies varying in tens and hundreds of thousands from election to election. We simply must not let a large number of citizens lose their interest. Because if a man should, especially that is characteristic of refugees who have to register every time for each new election, I'm telling you that half of those who actively participate as candidates, I'm not sure they've always checked that they're on the election list. So now figure out how to do it. That is why we recommend that this be considered seriously and that Parliament normally initiates and amends the electoral law in the context of its procedure, because certainly, given all other initiatives, I think this initiative deserves serious consideration. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3827	I thank Mr. Ljubić. I don't see any more reports. And I apologize, Mr. Jukić. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3828	Well, I'll be real quick. This is all that's in this report, I think it's done well and correctly and really this is an opportunity to just briefly remind ourselves of certain provisions in our electoral law and procedure, here's first of all about registering voters. I have a feeling that whoever came up with this way as if it were his main intention to threaten people to approach the elections in some way, so they're looking for a variety of formal reasons to make it impossible for people to vote. Instead. As it stands here, it recommends that people, or officials, be obliged to make quality ballots. In our case, it's the opposite of what's perfectly normal. Here are our institutions, the neighbouring Republic of Croatia has a very liberal, clear, logical view on this issue. If you are able to prove that you have a document of that state that is valid, you can access the basic document by the elections. And with us, I'm going to repeat the reasons for all sorts of things to make it impossible for people to vote. So totally detimulative. And I think that this should be another opportunity for us, perhaps to go with one conclusion and among other visible and recorded shortcomings and bad solutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, and this is one of those bad solutions, bad definitions, that it should be accessible to changes and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law and all that is seen through this application of this law, all four years to remove it in one, but it will still not be good for it to be short-term, but to start with changes and additions, and then, there is a rather solid period of time and time to then and through various initiatives and others to change these and supplement the devices as fully as possible and as possible. So it won't be just one piece again, so there'll be a lot of other parts and solutions that aren't good. So I suggest we adopt one conclusion here today and get to know the House of Representatives in the sense that there is also a need for this, as well as other perceived shortcomings, to approach the preparations for amendments and additions to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3829	I thank my colleague Jukić. No more reports. So now we're going to get to the bottom of this report. I'm opening a vote. So who's in favor of accepting this report? I thank you, I understand that the report has been unanimously accepted, although we have a proposal from my colleague Jukić, as I understand it, so the conclusion would be that the Council of Ministers is in charge to approach the development of amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law. A kolega Filipović will help a little as the chairman of the committee in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3830	I believe that this is a lapus, so the Commission has proposed, which is why I came forward, the Constitutional and Legal Commission is proposing, since all the comments have been made, that we have all and certain answers that have been made through the implementation of the local elections from the electoral commission to the public. So 36 that municipal electoral commissions were essentially delivering all the problems to which they met in the application of the electoral law currently on the ground, through the implementation of local elections. If we had, too, a lot of dilemmas, some ambiguities and in the implementation of the general elections, the proposal is the Constitutional and Legal Commission, or let, in that sense, and I suggest that this House, therefore, draws a conclusion that it will commit the Izorative Commission which, under the law itself, has the right to propose amendments and additions to the Election Law, so that it also proposes amendments and additions to the Election Law. The conclusion would be, behold, I was free to propose to read it like this – I am in charge of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we can put it that, in cooperation with the Council of Ministers and relevant bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I am referring to the constitutional and legal committees, approaches to the preparation of amendments and additions to the Election Law, and based on the observed shortcomings in the current application of the Election Law in the previous general and local elections. I think it's just fine here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3831	I thank my colleague Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3832	Please. Yeah, absolutely respecting the recommendations, because that comes from the Ombusman recommendation in the material.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3833	Okay. Now we've added that. Please make it clear now that this conclusion is not repeated. Open vote. I find that this conclusion has been adopted unanimously. We're going to the next item on the agenda, the tenth. So that's Ad.10. A set of reports on the financial performance audit carried out by the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution for 2003. Is there any need for me to read because I listed it in the agenda? If you don't think so, I won't list these institutions, I've listed them in the agenda. So we got the review office's report. We also have a representative here on the audit. Also, we've received a report from the committee responsible for the House of Peoples. The House of Representatives adopted these audit reports at its 47th session on 2 December 2004. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here, we'll make it possible for Mr. Samir, the auditor. Here you go. The Commission won't. He says there's no need. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3834	Dear MPs, I thank the delegates for the opportunity to address the House of Peoples, and I would take this opportunity to read our proposals for the 2003 report. Under 1. I propose that the system, the internal control system, be regulated institutionally as an obligation for all budget users, which includes rules of consumption, procurement and cost limits, control, approval and monitoring of public expenditure. This item covers the introduction, i.e. the adoption of the Regulation, and includes the introduction of an internal audit in the largest budget users such as DGS, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, SIP, etc. The second point has already been fulfilled by this esteemed Parliament, which is that public procurement is regulated legally. The law was passed on 02.11. Third. To regulate them legally, regulate salaries and fees, but not through Council of Ministers decisions, but through system regulations. Fourth. We believe it is necessary to revise the Law on the Treasury of BiH institutions, since there are no criminal provisions in this law. Fifth. We believe that to revise the text of the Law on the implementation of the budget, such as the revision, i.e. the elimination of the provisions to use the current reserves to balance the volume and structure of expenditure, which can be very widely used. Next. We believe that accounting standards should be drawn up, i.e. to adopt accounting standards for the public sector or to adopt a law on accounting for the public sector. Within these six points, our auditors recommended the following more detailed proposals. It is necessary to formulate common rules on consumption and consumption limits for the use and use of the following types of expenditure: mobile phones, gifts and representations, official vehicles, fuel use, office material expenditure, rental costs, expenditure on formal departments, uniforms, costs of repair and maintenance of equipment, employment of employees on the basis of occasional or temporary jobs, information and information expenditure, training, etc. These are all categories of costs that occur in everyday practice in one way or another, but are not proportionally used by the user to the user. Next. It is necessary to improve and significantly upgrade the Council of Ministers' decision on salary fees and to specify them in most cases, meaning most of the expenditure. For example. the amount of fees allowed for the rental of the apartment. Evidence of the use of such fees, etc. I wouldn't be liberating these parts right now. Most of it, most of it is written in our reports. Next. We noticed that in the implementation of the special purpose programme, these are state projects the area is not institutionally arranged, it is not planned analytically with the precise rules at its disposal. Most state projects have been nominated, say the Law on budget implementation and in one amount, without dividing one amount into individual items within the project. Our auditors in many state projects simply cannot determine the purpose of spending. If the project I don't know about perfecting it, and 100 thousand marks are approved, it's given in one 38. We don't know, and we can't determine after the dedicated consumption, how much it went to get the office material whether it's right or not. It is necessary to prescribe that financial reports are submitted in early March along with business reports. That it's actually one whole. Any body that submits a financial report shall bring it together with its public report on its business. What he's been doing for the last 12 months. Furthermore, it is necessary to draw up rules on accounting and accounting coverage of many transactions. Many transactions are not described enough. We often find the other travel costs in place, say, or other costs. They're worth $3 million. In school and in these specialist trainings in which we have learned, the position of other costs has always been left for unexpected costs, fewer amounts etc. Because there are not enough instructions, quality instructions, rules that we're talking about right now, it simply stands in many cases that incomprehensible amounts are placed at the other costs, etc. I'll say it again. Making rules on accounting and bookkeeping of transactions covered, including the creation of instructions from the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury for analytical and sub-analytical items of expenditure. Seven. Procedures to create a commitment to handling cash, although it may be minor now, but we really need it. It is necessary to systematically regulate the principles of cash handling, the height of the cash max, the recording of payment obligations, the rules on material business, to adopt for all institutions. Set this up as a commitment and based on common rules equal to all budget users. Procedures for the use of information systems, data inputs on...system, data protection, data storage, should be adopted for all institutions in order to be treated equally on the basis of common rules in all of these cases. We happen to ask the budget user if he's making backup copies of what's already been stored in the server. He says they do. Where do you keep the backups? In the same room as the server. So if there's a fire, the server burns down, but it burns down those copies that were made. Many don't even make these copies. Well, there are no rules, no procedures, no obligation to do so. I'd like to add something that's been discussed at the House of Representatives. A review of the observations of the audit, i.e. a review of the conclusions of the House carried out every three months, instead of taking place once a year when the audit submitted a report and then leaving a year after that, and then the next year the review again submits the report. That the situation is considered quarterly, i.e. the state of fulfillment of the conclusions of this home of our recommendations, and in that sense that if the House accepts every three months, it will have a debate on the functioning of public finances at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular with regard to the latest conclusions, the recommendations of the revision, etc. In the meantime, we've done so-called. the previous audit for 2004. To the most extent, we recorded the situation as the institutions did business in 2004, immediately after the 2003 report. You, if the commission is interested, we're ready to file a preliminary report to get acquainted with the findings in the previous review of what we've been reviewing, somewhere by the end of this year until New Year's Eve I think we're able to do a preliminary review. 39 Many, many parliaments in modern Europe have permanent bodies that monitor the work of the audit. I can't keep it quiet and I would like to comment on it is that we have a problem with the budget that very, if we had established a lot of institutions at the state level, but we also witnessed some of the NGOs from Canada who came here, they were here and they were asking about the possibility of establishing a permanent body that monitors the work of the audit and the implementation of your and our recommendations regarding financial operations. For now, that's it. If there's any questions, I'm at my disposal. I'd like to thank you once again for the opportunity to address me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3835	I thank Mr Mušović. Mr. Zno picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3836	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I did not report for the debate, nor will I discuss these reports that we received, reviewed, read, and I have come forward to show satisfaction with what we have already received from the audit, or auditor, thanks specifically to Samir Mušović as one of those who made it possible for us to get what we received as a result of the audit. I came forward for another reason, and based on my simple personal duty, at least with one sentence, look back at what seems to have become a media campaign, and it's about the people who carried out this audit once, I'd say a very ugly and negative context, because they're asking the question of their further work, and by the very basis of well done work. So that's possible in a country called Bosnia and Herzegovina. They're guilty, not because they didn't work, but because they did and they did good fair and humanely, but I repeat to the pleasure of this home. According to this, already once this home has shown satisfaction to the people who have done this work and thanked them for what they have done. I wish this was what I'm only talking about speculation, or just an evil and ugly habit, even an ugly one. Therefore, I, as a member of this House, show both the satisfaction and support of both the people and the results of their work, because it is a mirror of both the fair and the real relationship with this country and the work they are dealing with and the work they have done. Secondly, not getting into the actual results of the review, we're all familiar with them, there's no need to get in, even we're aware and we're aware of what's wrong with us. I only experience these reports as first because this is the first time that the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament has been informed of what it has done in the past. So for the first time in this House's history, we know what we did and what we shouldn't have done. And in 2003, and here are the reports for 2004 as well. I see their work at this stage, in this two-year, their one-year phase, I see this work as their contribution to building a system in which we must, whether or not we want to find ourselves or not, and in which we must function. And that is why I once again show them my satisfaction and give them every commendation for their work and what they have offered us. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3837	Thank you, colleagues. There's no answer anymore. Halid Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3838	Dear colleagues, of course support for auditors is both necessary and welcome, and I think it is useful to take that support and hear and receive at this meeting of the House today, but I would go one step further. The media situation around the audit report on some institutions, including the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is well known what followed and it is known that, unfortunately, the audit finding in many cases and around many institutions has seen weaknesses and recommendations as well as what to do to remove these weaknesses. I propose that, following the adoption of these reports, one of the conclusions is that the House of the Peoples of the Parlametary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina asks the Presidency and all other institutions to inform the Parliamentary Assembly of what the institution has done in light of the failures in the audit findings, what it has done to sanction and what it has done to get rid of you in order not to repeat itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3839	I thank my fellow Genjac for a concrete proposal. Are there any more reported? Mr. Čengić, Filipović, Nada Radović. Let's go, Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3840	So, I join my colleagues who have supported the work of the Audit Office and I think it is necessary, so there is no dilemma that we have all, listening to their reports, reading the reports, participating in discussions together with them in some way upgraded our knowledge and relationship with the audit and finally towards the spending of public funds. There is no dilemma that we are not comfortable when we see ourselves as a Parliamentary Assembly having committed certain failures, there is no dilemma that we are not comfortable with when we hear that someone else who spends public funds has broken certain gaps, but their tenacity and consistency and consistency to draw attention to behavior and the facts of the bones have met and whatever the institution is controlled is extremely important and is actually the only possible approach and correct approach. In that sense, in addition to what we have heard so far, I think it would be good to also ask for information on what has been done on the basis of the findings of the auditors' auditors when it comes to spending these funds on various BH institutions, I think it would be good to also give full support, regardless of the possible comments, or the current comments in the public and the measures that we have heard from Mr Samir today, about what we should adopt from additional regulations, instructions, etc., or what anyone should bring in order to build a legal environment, or better said legal regulation which we will be able to further measure the quality of work, but at the same time also help those who work directly to implement therefore financial obligations from the budget to also be in a safe place, so that they can move which is defined. 41 For on one side we have phenomena where there have been violations, disregard for regulations, laws, etc. But obviously on the other side we still have the fact that there is one significant space that is not simply arranged, is not defined. And someone seems to have to sort it out one way or another, or we simply can't expect him to apply the regulations to him. So in that sense it would be good, I'd like to really try, if it's possible to define a deadline. So, I can't, I can't, it's not my profession, I can't tell you now whether it's a two-month, four- or six-month term, but if it's possible as much today or at any of the next sessions with the suggestions of an audit office or office to get one proposal, within which time of certain regulations, it would be necessary to bring that area first to the legal and regulations, and then we can insist on carrying it out. Of course, here should be just as real. We don't need to, and I've never heard of any of us thinking that we should abolize someone for bad work, especially for breaking the law, but at the same time we're all aware of the fact that we're still in the process of postponing the system. And here I especially agree with Professor Zrn that in fact this institution has done a great job of establishing a system or system that will allow us in the coming years to have an even clearer picture of what we are doing and how we can do how to avoid failures, but at the same time how the public gets to know and how the funds that are publicly collected are being spent and how we can actually be transparent to the end, and thus be an example to everyone at lower levels who also have the opportunity to spend public funds. So, I would ask if it's possible now, or at the next session to define a deadline within which these accompanying regulations should be brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3841	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3842	Thank you very much. To me, Mr. Čengić took my whole thought, elaborated almost to the end, and everything he said, so I'm undermining it, because I was just about to say a few words, because we simply can't do everything we heard from Mr. Mušović to get over it like we didn't hear anything. We have received such a useful suggestion in relation to the procedures, compared to the upcoming legal acts that should be passed. Here is what you should internally regulate certain institutions as a budget, in relation to what you should legally regulate and prescribe rules of conduct when it comes to all institutions. So these are such useful suggestions, that I would suggest therefore teaching in relation to what Mr. Čengić said that we get it within a day, two, three, defined in the form of a conclusion that this home on the subject of very useful suggestions could be determined at a session that we will have 22, it seems to me that the College said so, 23. Because this is very difficult, I'm afraid we wouldn't be very useful to hear today, and this is how one whole conclusion could be made, if it comes here in due time to prepare for a session that's up to us by the end of this month. Thank you very much. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3843	I thank my colleague, Filipović. Here's a colleague of Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3844	Well, I totally agree with my colleagues. I think it's a good idea that in this way we discuss and accept the revision and I would go further, until these conclusions come to an end, I would suggest that today we draw a conclusion in line with what our colleague Mušović has made for us, so we have to go from ourselves to our own. I propose that the Council of Ministers do a bill on salaries and other fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So a rather sensitive question and we're always on target for once, and we shouldn't be, it should be all public and transparent and there's no reason why we don't pass the first one to propose a law where it would be arranged and transparently placed under control that there's no space for anything that doesn't belong to people who work in institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3845	Okay. Then I don't see any more reports. I think there's some things that have been crystallized like this. I think the conditions have come to the conclusion of Mr. Radović's proposal, and as far as these proposals are concerned, Mr. Filipović and Mr. Čengić, Mr. Zrn, here I am now free to suggest that, let's say, the president of our Administrative Commission, in co-operation with Mr. Mušović, prepare this set for us for the next session on the back of what you were saying, the measure is. If Mr Mušović agrees, here he has good co-operation with Parliament? ...great, great. I think we can make a statement about it today. So we have Mr. Genjac's conclusion, you remember what it was about, so here we can vote. So first on the report for all these institutions and here I am opening the vote. Now this audit office report has been adopted unanimously. Now we're going to make a statement about Mr. Genjac's proposal, since he went chronologically first. So you can
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3846	It's a simple conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3847	Don't, don't, let's go today, it's a mature conclusion to adopt
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3848	to request a report from the institutions of the beneficiary of the budget on what they have done in the context of the auditor's findings to remove the failure and to sanction the failures. All institutions. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3849	I thank my fellow Genjac for repeating it. So I'm opening a vote on the proposal for this conclusion. Thank you. Mr. Genjac's conclusion was unanimously adopted. We are now voting on the proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mr Radović. Here, you can vote. We unanimously adopted this conclusion, and here I am going to do it again. I said this one, and now I'm moving on. Well, I don't think there's any need to make a statement about something that's not prepared. He accepted fellow Mušović from the Office for Audit, accepted the chairman of our committee. So I thank my colleague Mušović. Here's what I'm going to say on a very high-quality report, as always, and it's really a pleasure to list and listen to colleagues from the office for review when they present their reports. So we adopted him. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. A report on the state of defence and security structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been given to all of us. The House of Representatives adopted this report at their 47th session, held on 2 December 2004. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Mr. Limov, then Mr. Šiljegović. Here's a colleague of Limov, as chairman of the commission, if he can, you can choose Šiljegović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3850	All right, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have the need to, no matter what six members of the Joint Defence and Security Commission sit here today, very briefly. In fact, we have received one conclusion from the House of Representatives, which obliges this joint parliamentary commission, to submit a full report on the state of BiH's defence security structures within three months, with a view to all relevant aspects. Then we traced that conclusion, sent a letter to the Ministry of Defence, where we requested a report on the reforms carried out, and another report was on the state of completion. We've received a status report at 22.10. We sent this same report to the BiH Ministry of Security, by looking for information on the state of charge at the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, or in SIPI. In our joint session, held on 09.11. we had an obligation to submit before this commission a proposal for measures and conclusions to the House of Representatives, after the conclusion came from them, and then on this Joint Commission, given the importance of the security, security aspects in BiH, 44 we unanimously decided that such a same report is necessary for us to deliver to the House of Peoples for consideration. Following the discussion of the members of the commission, the Joint Commission unanimously accepted the report and information from the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security, which make up a full report on the situation in BiH's defence security structures, whose adoption is based on the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples with a proposal for 14 conclusions and measures. I'm gonna fly over that for a little while. We propose to both the House, in fact, we estimate that the security situation in BiH is not satisfactory. In the second conclusion, we said it was necessary for the Bureau to finally adopt a document on BiH's security policy, to ask the Council of Ministers to update and supplement issues of juvenile delinquency, data on killings by municipalities since the signing of the Dayton Agreement, etc. The fourth conclusion was to ask the Council of Ministers to bring security information to BiH for the first six months of 2004. The information was also required to cover the areas of the SIP, the OSCE, the Ministry of Interior, the State Border Service and others. The next conclusion is that an energy police action is required in connection with the crimes of planting explosive devices in BiH. Criminal legislation is also required to be harmonised with the European Convention. The Council of Ministers is asked to pay special attention to traffic security. It is asked by the Council of Ministers to try again to establish accommodation and breeding facilities for minor delinquents. We've set a deadline here on 31.12. In 2004. It is also sought on the issue of the State Border Service for its permanent accommodation and its staffing, visa harmonisation, harmonisation of sub-legal rules in the area of migration and asylum, the Council of Ministers is asked to sign an agreement with Serbia-Montenegro, to accept illegal immigrants, to work on building single information security systems in BiH and to ask the competent institutions for and work on forming working groups that will put forward proposals in the final table for single action plans or states to fight corruption and combat economic crime at the level of BiH. I've briefly crossed these 14 conclusions. So this is not what I was saying for the members of the committee who are from this House six years old. We've done a lot of work on this, a lot of material has come from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security, we simply propose to the House of Peoples to accept this report on the state of defence security structures in BiH with these measures and conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3851	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Mr. Limov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3852	Thank you, Mr. President, here's exactly how this problem can be talked about, some colleagues have suggested that I take it down, so I wanted to see this one, look at my colleagues, and as soon as I feel like I don't need it anymore, I'm gonna hang up. But in any case, I'd like to say congratulations to the commission on the excellent work done and what the president has just said is important this, 45 took away the contents of what I wanted to talk about, and I guess that's how other colleagues experienced it. And just some of the questions that I've been asking here have actually proved to be a preventive distraction and that it has been accepted from the competent relevant bodies and institutions of BiH and from the bodies at lower levels, our state organisations, in such a way that they have taken appropriate measures, then we would now have the appropriate solutions to those things that you have warned of, in particular I mean underage delinquents. You remember I've been asking questions about people who need psychosocial protection, medical care as you will, unfortunately, so far, the results are minimal. They certainly have an impact on the general score. Since counterpart Šiljegović gave one more realistic grade than it is in these materials, I only have to agree. So, yes, she's something more difficult than the satisfying assessment that my colleagues at the Department of Security have given me, and here, just with a few words to say, in general, I would say that quite frankly. We are a state that has gone into reform processes and is inevitable this segment of defence of security, intelligence services etc. And I almost dare to say here in front of you that we should have, this is now risky, but I'm going to use that term, two stories. One is a story that represents us as a country that is seriously approaching this problem, sets things up in a systematic manner and achieves appropriate results. And that would be the story that we were called to as state-level parliamentarians, to speak to all partners, conditionally speaking from the world. And the second part of the story, it would be to face ourselves, our executive power and our respective institutions, to see if it could go any faster, can it be more serious, can it be more thorough, because the very concrete indicators that are standing here, say it didn't work out with the dynamics that should have gone. For example, 65% of the people at the Department of Defense at the state level, we had to be up to 29. 06. (?) Set it up. I don't know why, but we're it, our home is that, who had a session those days and everything was prepared, we left it for 17.07. It was one of the conditions that they told us, although we finally got it and reduced it to the fact that we didn't cooperate enough with The Hag, so we made an effort to tie it to one part of BiH. It's people, the mission of the BiH state. It's the task of the institutions that we have, informing the state-level service, the SIP we're talking about and seeing how it's being implemented. And now that you see that there are no results on that plan, then someone malicious can draw the conclusion that it's consciously done so. Look at the Department of Security, the numbers are this, very worrying. I'm going to say one thing here that many people won't like, but really in the reform of this sector, there's no deviation. We've given ourselves up, and it just has to go its own way. It's not worth it to us not to fill what we end up giving ourselves. And then the foreigners accept and bind us to that and that date, etc. And of course, then it's easy to tell them that we haven't met anything. But, in general, the reform in this segment means very simply I will try to say it, as we did when we asked for the constitutional basis of our fellow Boško, it is generally a promise to say here, that we see it, no problem, so when it gets the consent of the National Assembly of the RS, then we agree to raise the relevant things to the state level according to the Dayton Agreement. Now, you see, when we decided to go into reform, then it automatically means I can't stay in the same position as the entity. We simply, we, the modest means that we have, in this process, have to focus properly and then it can't happen that instead of 100 and I don't know 60 and some of the people at the Ministry of Security are three times less or I don't know in the Department of Defense, that instead of 65% of what people told us, 29th takes so much and we do 3o-35% and it's 46.09. So everything is, I don't really see this one, too many reasons because there's no more going back. We did the thing and let's do it, we ask for responsibility from those who are obliged to implement, and that in the end this must all be monitored and the corresponding means and means must not be a limiting element in this sense. Five days ago, five days ago, the Federation government made a decision to continue the peace mission of our police forces in Liberia. You see, where does the Federation Government have in the Ministry of Security, we have a BiH state, it's done in international whether, I pray, the Federation government repeat, so 5 days ago the Federation government, that it doesn't turn out to be just one, the entities have to realize that these segments have actually left the state on its own, and let's do this more offensively, we implement that we can't complain because we're simply wasting the right time. I purposely presented this information which seems to me since Thursday, from the last session of the Federation government and I also know in time, so from a few years ago, that some international peace missions, the decision was made at the Federal Government, as well as at the Government of the RS, is whether. So, I think we all have the possibility of a more responsible engagement to speed up these processes because, I assure you, even if we were in terms of these two looking for them, so they can't find them for so many years, even then they wouldn't meet the condition. Here are the three, but that goes for another country, but here I agree with the package, so says Mrs. Delponte, and that should really be appreciated. People, when we're doing reports like this and I'd like the commission to distract us, let them write down all the elements that affect this. Let them tell us when they write about Interpol, we know it does, there's one whole affair about the deputy director, we don't know what it's going to be, but it can be written here that it's an objectively real problem, in the extreme line of security character. Furthermore, we cannot ignore the dimensions of whether, the social situation, hunger strikes, these, those etc., we must be very sensitive and warn that this is also a trend that can destabilize this situation at some point. And something that he's kind of doing and I think I found this one place, I found a foothold for what I'm about to say, to say the same thing. Namely, here is counterpart Šiljegović, who has been at some sessions outside BiH, where it is an unhinged attempt, you may be careful, it may be realistic, but as far as we as parliamentarians, as people who are acting in the proper responsibilities at the state level, should accept it or easily enter into the situation to discuss it, especially to sign some document in this regard. So, there are efforts to solve our problems, connect to resolve Kosovo's issues. Very open. There's an effort. We need to build a proper position here and make it clear, what we think and do not accept lightly thesis, how solving this issue that is an integral part of another country's problem, so in my opinion, we don't have to take it lightly, get into that trap, and simply in any way regarding the status, in terms of standards, yes, but in terms of status, no. I think that this, here with this observation with the support of all the efforts that are being made here and the support of all the results that are not supposed to be hidden, especially on the defence reform plan, and it is our primary condition, is it, first of all, PRP (?) So I personally support the conclusions that my fellow Bosko made in 14 seems to me to be elements. I have no objections to this, and I would like the Commission itself to draw attention to those who write in particular when it comes to the Ministry of Security, such information, reports or whatever it is called, or estimates, that this one, too, takes care of some of these elements and, of course, I am particularly pleased that the Commission has noticed that our conclusion, which I warned at the last session, concerning the 47 update of the document Security Policy of BiH, has not been carried out so far by the Presidency and the Council of Ministers. Of course, I didn't even get the answer. I personally do not need an answer, if they will comply with the request made by my colleague Šiljegović, so, if they will update it and deliver it to us as soon as possible, that we have this document in a way that is up-to-date and that meets our needs at this point, and things are rapidly developing in this segment. Perhaps already these days, especially in this segment, we will be faced with commitments that are likely to be time-consistent with the dynamics of our wishes, to fulfill what we are talking about, which is the sooner we enter the EU, the NATO Pact and other Euro-Atlantic and European integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3853	I thank Mr. Limov. Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3854	I also thank you as a member of the commission, I support everything Mr. Šiljegović, the chairman of the commission said these 14 points, but also what Mr. Limov said, too, but I can't help but say something else, I'm not adding that report. I analyzed this report very closely after that. It consists of two parts, defense and security. In defense, the report is indeed acceptable and a lot has been done there, but there is one segment where we are not satisfied and that is known. We have already repeatedly warned on the commission, with the staff full, with the slowness of the staff's fill, we are not satisfied but we hope that it will, however, promise to speed it up in these last months of this year, so we will see if it will come true. However, I would like to talk more about security here and put in those remarks that have not yet been made here and have not been concluded. Namely, I want to say something about two segments, traffic and narcotics. And one and the other, they're pretty much covered here, but both of them, except for what they're saying, nothing else is going on here. And I will only bring out the information that 179 people in traffic died in BiH in the first six months of this year. It is a frantic figure in the Federation and in one entity and another, meaning in BiH 179. It's a daily gin literally killed a man. In addition to how many wounded and injured go, with long-term consequences, etc. That we're not talking about material damage. That's one frantic piece of information we can't keep our mouths shut. And we have to warn, we have to ask for solutions to be found, to simply disable it. How different than in legal ways. We need to suggest to those who are responsible for supplementing these laws, in traffic I know that something is going on right now, that it will come to us quickly in the process, but it needs to come as soon as possible and it goes along that segment. Secondly, these reports show that every year, more and more are taking the wave of narcotics and the enjoyment of narcotics in BiH's territory, in the entire BiH area. And what about dientering me or, say, stealing a car? They've got the data here. Caught so much, 350 caught that they did. So what now? Caught and nothing. I'll give you a concrete example, in 2000, I caught a thief stealing my car in front of the Vishnik apartment, I caught 48 of him. He broke my door, broke my lock. Please, I caught him. I brought the police to take him, I brought the police. The police took him, to this day, believe it or not, no one called me to court as a witness, this guy or he left, probably, no consequences, caught in the place of stealing a car. Now, here's 350 people who are, cases where he's been caught, where he's been found. I'm curious now, what are the prosecution and the judges doing on these issues? I have the impression as a BiH citizen that as an ordinary man, the judiciary and the prosecution are independent, not as they are spoken of by an independent judiciary, they are independent of work. Look, they're independent of work, because if they did their job, they wouldn't have waited five years for me to be called as a witness to a theft I caught, not militiamen, they didn't catch. I caught and brought the millionaires. Please, I will, I'm asking you to complete this fourteenth point, please, we have, now you will say to the court, it's independent. And they have to lay down an account for someone in this country. I am requesting a report from the Prosecutor's Office and the BiH judiciary, of all levels of the judiciary, what they have done according to these directly established facts. Have they taken action from the D.A. and been taken by the judiciary? If it's not done, all of this here is said, it's lame. It's a bad thing because you're careful about something, security concerns not only the state and not the entity, but every individual. However I got caught stealing a car, so you could all individually catch it, so it's about every BiH citizen. Here we start blackmailing our children, kidnapping them. It has to be a unique security system at the state level. It's just that people have to understand that it's not waiting anymore, that it's done as soon as possible. And please, I suggest, there's still a lot of data here, that I don't give it to you, that I don't take the time, we all have this material, I really think that the BiH courts are supposed to be able to account for what they're doing on these issues that have been identified in this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3855	I thank my colleague, Brk. Here's a proposal from the Kolegijum that what Mr. Brka put out, that it goes in the form of a question of delegate and more binding,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3856	..now that they've adopted the House of Representatives and we, the same conclusions and that on the next commission, it's a special chapter, to process it and then come with one conclusion to the House. Mr. Osman Brak is a member of this Joint Commission, there will be more information.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3857	Half of our home is a member of that commission. Are we in agreement with this proposal by Šiljegović? Okay. Then there's no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. We vote on the report on the state of defence and security structures in BiH. Open vote. So with the conclusions, these are the components of the report, part of the report. Okay, the report's been adopted. 49 Point 12 of the agenda, Ad. 12. A report by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy on the proposal for conclusions and measures to discuss the Information on the state of security of BiH Whether or not there was a speech. At the 26th session held on 16 July 2004, we discussed the Information on the state of security in BiH and adopted the following conclusions, as we discussed the House. The first conclusion was that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to submit within 60 days to the parliamentary procedure a comprehensive information on the state of security in the BiH area for the mid-term 2004, the second was to include an assessment of the security situation for the next half-year period and an inter-resorial approach to construction, which implies the participation of the following institutions: the Directorate for indirect taxation, tax administrations, intelligence agencies in BiH, the Court of BiH, the State and entity ministries for refugees, work, social policy and others. The House of Representatives discussed the follow-up to the 41st session, July 27th 2004, information on the state of security in BiH, and asked the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level to consider proposals for conclusions. The Joint Commission delivered its report. As for the Joint Commission's report on the security situation in BiH from both homes, I would therefore suggest that we take this report into consideration. Anyone want to discuss it? Mr. Limov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3858	Of course, I'll talk about this briefly, because eventually, and my colleague Šiljegović and I, we touched this thing too, and I realized that that conclusion about his own assessment of the political security situation is different from what is standing here. I therefore accepted the Commission's view that the matter is even more serious. I want to be very brief on this, I'm not going to bother you with any concrete indicators at all. My colleague brkati was carrying one segment, and I also said that it should be complemented with other elements, and I want to warn you of one thing that is very fresh. And finally, I want to affirm the international co-operation of the security structures that has clearly resulted in a very concrete result, the international co-operation of police, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and BiH, that is, in this particular case of the Federal MUP and the RS MUP, which have all been incorporated, and therefore refers to the attempt, not to attempt, but to the actual abduction of this child, and given this very fact, I would like to say that it is a terrible danger for not only the political security segment, the aspect of looking at the situation in our country, but at all, is organised crime, because it has very often a transnational character. In this case, a man from Belgrade conducted the overall activity that was happening here and this very fact, thanks to the involvement of fellow police officers, from Serbia-Montenegro, we have come to results and in this respect needs, here I feel that in this way with these few words, I am giving support to one such orientation, the construction of security structures that will constantly develop cooperation, especially to go towards bringing here another institution, and that is EUROPOL and here we have in the procedure of this, and the relevant law. 50 I hope that by understanding both our colleagues and others we will meet this condition, to sign the agreement at last with EUROPOL, because practically after that law, and since a secret data protection agreement was signed a few months ago, however without law, it will certainly not work because the law provides for certain criminal provisions, etc. And proper protection, I'm using the opportunity to say, that we're just going in that direction and, of course, congratulating our police officer who has properly passed her exam. Well, pal brkati, I don't know if you've been out, I've brought out the information that in this year, 89 of those thieves, they've been caught by the hand the moment they steal the car, the same thing you said, I can say. So I fully support what you're looking for, and I fully support that. I've illustrated very fresh data, and we just need to see it. Because you see, one thing, and I want to warn you, people's dissatisfaction can also be expressed and because of the fact that we're building a system within which a man steals millions of marks and then settles for about five years and everything remains. So it's worth being a criminal. So we must be serious, and all of us, when we bring in, see that in a certain way, we respond to this challenge that is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-14-0.u3859	Thank you. No more reports. I understand we've received this report. And I'm closing today's session. The next session will be on Thursday, 23.12. at 11 o'clock. Cheers. The session was finished at 4:30.
