ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11167	Members, honored guests, I am opening the 30th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen at the session were invited by our regular guests and representatives of international NGOs who expressed interest in monitoring the work of this home. I warmly welcome all MPs and guests to the session. According to the Service report, I find that 32 MPs attend the session, 20 from the Federation, 12 from Republika Srpska, which means that we can make decisions in full and full at today's session. The absence was justified by Mr Vinko Zorić and other announcements of the absence is not anything I expect, but some colleagues and fellow Members arrive. Ladies and gentlemen, in the invitation to the 30th session, you have received a draft agenda for the 30th session. Yesterday we had a session of the College in an extended composition at which we agreed on the work of this session. The extended college supported the proposed agenda with one amendment, and it concerns therefore the 13th agenda of the amended agenda. This is the appointment of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Human Rights Obstacles, because we received a confirmed proposal from the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. I just want to remind you that for objective reasons, we only got the minutes from the 29th session yesterday, which means if the MPs haven't been able to read it to him today, we can create the mood to adopt this report, if he insists, at the next session of the House of Representatives. I would also like to inform you that yesterday we received a motion for a resolution from MEP Nenad Mišić proposing to put a temporary moratorium on Article 121. Rules of Procedure. You have received a proposal for this resolution and of course I have no objection to this resolution to act as well as to all other resolutions, but there is one small specificity, so this resolution is out of business, because it refers to Amendment 2 or moratorium to certain items of the Rules of Procedure which reduces the rights of the House and the rights of MPs and it is not good and of course, but I have no objection to today making any decision taken by the House of Representative. It is not common for resolutions to put aside certain parts of the Rules of Procedure, since it is known how the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives can be changed. And that is why I would pray that if we decide to send this resolution to the committee in charge to discuss whether or not this is possible at all. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been given the agenda, so with this amendment proposed by the Extended College. There's no need for me to read it. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11168	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that I had to go out for this pay phone when it comes to the agenda because Mr. Chairman said that we agreed yesterday that the agenda was going without notice. However, after the agenda, I came up with one piece of knowledge that offered me this. My reaction is next. I propose that the 7th Point – Proposal for a Law on the Security Intelligence Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that today's home, the agenda ends without that point, or that today's session be postponed. Reason, virtuoso manipulation of Article 94(1) The Rules of Procedure of this House, here are several times, and that someone in my opinion, and I will be corrected if anyone convinces me that there are other reasons. It may be a Kolegijum, may be a Secretariat or may be professional services or commissions that manipulate this member that the MP cannot be involved in his mission and his work so that he can react to accepted amendments. Namely, the college commission reports, they've already been sent on Fridays a few times after hours. In particular, when it comes to this law, I faxed in 19.23, so at half eight o'clock in the evening, and here's what I'm going to contribute to, you see, I got a report that I've been responding to within the hour and sent my amendments to accepted amendments and, of course, it was only my reaction to the machine that was called college, he accepted my amendments. On Saturday, there's no one in this building, there's no one there, Monday around 9:00, 10 hours after the coffee, someone approached the machine, took that material and took it to office protocol. Both these amendments bear a date on Monday 23rd and I find myself in an extremely perfidious way, as an MP now making it impossible for me to use 48 hours of the Rules of Procedure, which says that this is the minimum time to be accepted, or amendments to be considered late. 3 This is what has happened to me in this house for the second time, for the third time, and for this reason I ask – or to remove the point from the agenda, or to postpone it so that it may fit into tomorrow's term, or another that it may act with my amendments. I wouldn't talk about hard words here, I'll put it in writing, and that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11169	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. There is no reason for me to inform the public that there is no reason for him to be tenorous, nor for the College, nor for Parliament's services, etc. Rules of Procedure are clear. The problem is the commission was on Friday and there was little time. I don't know about this situation or that it's faxed, or this has any, any impact on today's agenda, because reading the law is in the first reading. So the amendments to the amendments are only in the second reading. I would beg my colleague Moranjkić, there is no need for harsh words. I'm sorry there's been a misunderstanding, but that's the situation, so we're technically and technologically equipped. The Commission is sitting on Fridays and there may be such misunderstandings and they are not only referring to Mr Moranjkić, but to all MPs. So this problem can be solved. It does not need to be tied to today's session because we have a law in our first reading, and the problem will be solved by the College to ask and have, there is no need for further interpretations. I think my colleague Moranjkić figured it out. So there's no trendy intent. We'll solve the problem, especially if there's a time when the fax is sent. I'm sorry it's Friday. I don't know about those details, but it's not an indecisive problem and there's no need to take off the point, because the law is in the first reading. What I would like to propose on behalf of the College is that the 12th point you received on the agenda is the Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement in the same text of the Insurance Agency Act. I have to say, the commission didn't finish the job. So this text has not yet been agreed and on behalf of the College, we propose that the 12th point be removed from the agenda, because we do not have a report from the Commission. So I ask you to respect this proposal, Clegi. Who's next to the word? Last night, of course, we agreed on an extended college to pay attention to this session today and to make sure there is no enlargement of the agenda, unless the special situation warrants it. Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11170	Dear colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like two points of the agenda to report. For today's session of the agenda, which I have not received an answer to since last session, although public pressure is increasing precisely on the subject, namely measures to support the development of domestic car industry. At last session of the parliamentary house, I asked for information to be given to me by the Council of Ministers on the support of the Bosnia and Herzegovina car industry. I didn't get that until today. Unfortunately, the situation in this matter is dramatic. I want to explain. I therefore propose that at the end of today's session we prepare information from the Council of Ministers on the state of play with support measures for the development of the car industry. I'll explain in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. By 31 December last year, the Council of Ministers made decisions on duty-free imports of so-called goods. (es k de de ca de) SKDCKD circuits, translated into collokial language support for the development of auto industry as the first stage of winning next steps. These decisions were made and applied to all importers, and I underline to all importers, not only the importer who was the only importer to benefit from that right. As of November last year, Sarajevo's folks Vagen sent a series of letters to the Ministry of Foreign Trade asking that this decision be extended after 31.12 last year as previously done. The usual support was given by OHR and SAFAO leaders in a process that was before the Council of Ministers. On several occasions, the foreign trade minister said that the project, which will have continuity, is, I repeat, about folks vaginan as a symbol of opening strategic foreign investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. He was finally told that this problem would be resolved by amending the Customs Tariff Act in preparation. That means somewhere around the year at this time could be solved. By this time of year, golfing 6 and golf 5 will not begin to be made in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina will only be a buyer of such vehicles, instead of being a regional centre such as, thanks to, I want to make it very clear here to tell the efforts of several previous Councils of Ministers and entity governments. So this does not concern at all the work of the previous Council of Ministers and the previous government, but thanks to one real awareness that these projects are of general interest. If such an approach is accepted, it means that we are practically closing the door, not only for this investor, but for others. Otherwise, I want to say that this is not just about making vehicles, but about producing parts for imports in Sarajevo and Bosnia and Herzegovina, in connection with the Sarajevo project, and so last year it was exported from the folk vagina to Sarajevo 86 million KM, and this company is the fourth to be exported to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Otherwise, the other company, which is jointly supporting the car industry, exported 99 million KM last year only 5 on the basis of one such administrative decision made by the previous Council of Ministers and in which I sat and in which the people of the current Council of Ministers sat in that mandate earlier. So last year, 185 million marks were exported from the country on this basis. I really ask you to put this in place today at the end of today's session, that the Council of Ministers prepare us with appropriate information and that we make one reasonable decision that will, in the interest of everyone and I use this as a method to show that we need to establish a dialogue on such matters, rather than be divided into power and opposition. Because these are projects that are of interest to every man in this country. So you'd like to ask that item of the agenda to be included today, even if the Council of Ministers here briefly informs us and assumes some obligation to see that we are serious about this sort of thing. Whatever Parliament decides, I don't want to talk about it now, there will be opportunities. And another thing I would like to ask, Mr. Chairman, given that we are seeing ourselves in public today, is that I do not suggest it as a part of the agenda, but I suggest that I do not propose today's agenda point, that given that it was dramatically addressed yesterday by the Practical Council for the Implementation of Peace on the Law on Education and for the fact that by 31.3., an appropriate law is not passed which should pass two readings in this Parliament that a whole package of 60 and a change of millions will fail for such an area. I would therefore ask the chairman to agree that we should make an appointment as soon as possible and to assign the Council of Ministers to the Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of this House, which will be first committed to the first reading of this law. I'm saying this because we shouldn't bring ourselves to have a session of the Parliamentary Assembly on March 30th in which we wave this in two swings according to article 105. Because it's a capital law that this Parliament has something to say about. I am saying all of this by saying that, thanks to your initiative, we signed the obligation a few days ago, that we will all have a consensus on a constructive approach to approaching European integration in a non-political way, rather than a political way. And that is why, as a concrete consequence of that, I propose these two things that I said today, in order to establish a dialogue on what we should all have dialogue about in this House. I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's to the Rules of Procedure, just for the first and for the second.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11171	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. He's proposing a new agenda point. I think that this second useful suggestion of Dr Lagumdžija can be accepted by one conclusion that perhaps the College of Parliament should address the Council of Ministers with a request 6 to the Law on Education as soon as they agree that we are aware of the deadlines and ask them to simply take care of the deadline that Parliament should adopt it. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we must first declare the new agenda point, that is Dr Lagumdžija's suggestion that, as the last item of the agenda, she would be 15, because the proposal is to remove the 12th point of the agenda for the reason we don't have a commission report. So this would be 15. - Information from the Council of Ministers on the state with a proposal for measures to support the development of the car industry. Who's in favor of that being the 15th point? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I understand that we unanimously accepted Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal for the 15th item of the agenda. So, ladies and gentlemen, we've adopted the next agenda. 1. Record of the 29th session, 2nd. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on an emergency mediation procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 4. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on New Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on New Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 7. Proposal for a Law on the Security Intelligence Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on the importance of public documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 9. Proposal for a law on judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 10. Proposal for a law establishing a Commission for Electricity Transfer in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 11. Proposal for a law establishing an independent transmission system operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 7 12. Appointment of Human Rights Obstacles in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 13. The election of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Council of Europe instead of Mr Hasan Muratović, 14. Report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Law Department for the period 01.06 to 31.12.2003 and 15. Information from the Council of Ministers on the state of play with measures to support the development of the car industry. Thank you very much. We move on, so I ask the Professional Service to inform the Council of Ministers, so that the Council of Ministers, informs the Council of Ministers, to prepare for the 15th point we adopted. We had, of course, so we closed the debate. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. So that's Ad.1. I'm opening a discussion on the record from the 29th session. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going too far for a plea. Who's in favour of adopting the minutes of the 29th session? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. I understand that the minutes of the 29th session were unanimously adopted. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. They're Ad.2. Parliamentary questions and answers Since last, these sessions have not received a single answer to the parliamentary question. Please, who wants to ask a new parliamentary question? Lagumdžija, Bešlagić, Avdić, Jahić. Okay. You'll all get a chance to ask the MP a question you don't have to worry about. Mr. Križanović. Here you go. Mr. Križanović, go ahead. You wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11172	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, before I ask a parliamentary question, allow me only a few details of the analysis that has been carried out so far of the issues raised. I did one to say an analysis of the representative's questions in the past year where I took all the questions of the MPs to the conclusion of 12.11. last year and all the answers arrived by 23.12 last year. Only a few figures for which the 22 sessions of our home were asked 130 parliamentary questions, and by the end of that year, only 50 responses were received, making it a little less than 40%. When an analysis of the time period from the asked question to the answer received is given two and a half, three and ten months. So there are more questions that have been raised since the beginning of the year that have not yet been answered. No question we've asked here has been answered orally, so the answer is now. That's why I'm formulating the next question. So given that the practice of parliamentary issues is the way it is, that here I am speaking on my behalf to the MPs that they are at all asking more parliamentary questions and that this instrument of parliamentary matters has lost its meaning, so I - I am referring to the question this time to the College of our home with the question of whether, when and what our College will take to ensure, above all, that the provisions of our Rules of Procedure are respected and that it will take all efforts to affirm this instrument of parliamentary issues as a very important instrument of communication with the Executive Authority. One of the conclusions that I have received is that we do have the Council of Ministers' full-fledged relationship with Parliament. Here in that sense, my representative question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11173	I thank my colleague Križanović. Mr. Bešlagić Selim answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11174	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, honored guests, despite the devastating result of the analysis done by Mr. Križanović, I still believe that we must ask questions, if nothing else because of our citizens. I have one question for the Parliamentary Assembly College and this is like this: - A social security agreement between the former SFRY and BiH signed in 2002 and passed the parliamentary procedure of the SRJ, but the procedure has not yet been completed in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. - When will this agreement be ratified so that our citizens can exercise their rights under this agreement and from the domain of pension insurance? I'd like a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11175	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. You'll get a written answer. I must say, we didn't get that agreement from the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. There is not a single agreement in Parliament waiting for our verification and that it has come to Parliament, but here I respect the question of my fellow Members Bešlagić. Dr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11176	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the question to the Council of Ministers, I would like to ask you in writing an answer. I'd like to know, what degree did the preparations come in making a fund donation program from a global fund that is being prepared by a group called SSN consisting of 30 people? And I'm curious about why one application was missed last October. Next is March this year. Obviously, people can't agree on how we need to get the donations people want to give us, and they are needed for young people of this country for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for prevention programmes full of transmitted AIDS, etc. etc. If it can mean anything by the young people I came out of on behalf of my colleagues who were with me at one of the seminars, the Council of Ministers should consider and forward the issue as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11177	I thank Dr. Živković. Dr. Sead Avdić called to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11178	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, on the basis of the conclusions of this House, and on the application of the Free Trade Agreement with neighbouring countries to the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, given the events and what we have concluded, which is that we have suggested and proposed that entity budgets for the purpose of foster measures for agriculture should be set aside up to 3% of the entity's budget, given the behaviour, for example, conditionally said by the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the budget planned less funds than it was last year. So there's no recommendation from this house anywhere near here. In this context is really the issue of the Council of Ministers, considering these small funds planned this year for the incentive measures for agriculture and the food industry, then the question of the fate of applying the Free Trade Agreement with neighbouring countries? We have said that there for up to three months we have brought a palitative measure, namely the Council of Ministers, but simply this remains a permanent problem, which means that it is asked by the Council of Ministers to take measures with entity governments to protect domestic 10 production, i.e. the necessary measures leading to the agreed pro-longing of this contract for a long period of time. And below 2.. I Sugeriš that in case the Council of Ministers does not objectively reach a consensus on the Law on Higher Education until 1 March, I propose that the College of the House of Representatives that this draft law, which did not receive a green light, should it not receive the green light of the Council of Ministers to review the possibility of introducing it into parliamentary procedure, that we go to first reading, whether from the College or simply from one club, or from an individual MP at the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By the way, this law is of strategic importance for meeting the conditions for a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and so forth, which simply enables real investment in indirect and direct organisation of up to $40 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11179	I thank Dr. Avdić. I would ask MPs to submit parliamentary questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in writing. Whoever doesn't deliver in writing will lose their answers. Thank you very much. Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11180	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, my question is - When will a member of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina be elected from the order of the Serbian people? I don't know if you know recently, it seems to me that there is already a year that Mr Branko Perić has been elected as another post, which means, and yet he has not appointed a member of the Serbian People's Election Commission, and in the end the current members of the Election Commission have not been appointed under the Electoral Law, but have been appointed by the High Representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11181	I thank my colleague Jovanović. Mr. Elmir Jahić asked for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11182	Like this. A parliamentary question for the Director and the Management Board of the Office for Direct Taxation, i.e. the Council of Ministers. - Why aren't the honorable members of 2. Law on State Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions as well as Article 7. Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration law on national representation, numerically and percentageally in the customs administrations of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia, and in general, but also in organisation units, 11 or parts, central office, customs offices, customs offices in the interior of BiH, and in particular customs offices and customs offices at border crossings do not supply this data. And what will the Director, the Management Board of the Legal Taxation Service, do to comply consistently with these provisions of those laws?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11183	I thank my colleague Jahić. The word came from Seada Palavrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11184	Dear Presidency and distinguished colleagues, I think you've all learned from the media that a delegation visit has occurred these days, it seems to me to me that the Republic of Serbia, or that it's the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't know Moscow. My question is, what delegation was that? - So is it entity or state? - What's her composition? It seems to me from what was in the media that it was a one-national composition. - What are the contents of the conversation and the results of that visit? - Are the procedures respected by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if any, some agreement has been concluded and the foreign ministry? Because it seems that no one who does not belong to the Serbian people in that ministry knows anything about that visit. I expect an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11185	Thank you. Who's still picking up the word to ask a question? Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, then Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11186	Mr. Chairman, it's a real shame we don't have members of the Council of Ministers here. The mass of these questions would stay, get an answer here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11187	They complained, I'm sorry, we're not sitting on the fourth because they have a session. Here we are on Tuesdays. They're not here today. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11188	So, since more than 20 different institutions are being established and upgraded only in this phase of the next 4-5 months, it is in line with what we recently accepted at the House of Representatives, and it concerns our accession to the EU in one process which is now due to be limited in this phase with the Stabilisation and Association Treaty. Once again repeating the seriousness of the SDP and our club to approach this matter with as much responsibility as possible, I would like the Council of Ministers to respond as soon as possible to which criteria and when and how they intend to make these institutions, given the policy by which the seats of different state institutions and organisations are distributed across Bosnia and Herzegovina, outside Sarajevo. I ask that I be provided with a list of those institutions that are now and where they are outside Sarajevo, that is, planned for the next 6 months, first in the next 6 months, in line with what we had here before several sessions as well as in the next few years, i.e. until 2006 to be relocated and where to be moved according to what criteria. I also want to be specific. I would like, for example, to be set up by an expert institution such as the transformation of the Institute for Standards and Measurement and Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and related to the so-called Institute of Accreditation, which is already a special institution, but also stems from the same institution, and yet again in line with the standards that we have received as a domestic task from the EU. Please give me an answer that will show that this issue is approached systematically and respecting the profession. I am saying this because I want to take this example, because so far in the last two years, huge foreign aid has been invested and more than 700 experts have been hired so far, as far as I am known in various meetings in some 40 technical committees and all of this has been done on the basis of laws that have been established, or adopted, by the Parliamentary Assembly in the previous meeting. But there's a huge job behind us, and as far as I'm aware of, like, 30 professional employees working here. Why am I saying this? Because for several years, huge funds have been invested, a team of professional people formed, and I want this law to be answered – how is it and whether it is meant to be distributed by political or professional criteria and to see what the Council of Ministers' policy is in this area? I submit the question in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the hope that I will be answered before the end of 4 months until when necessary
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11189	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Ćeman answered for the word, so Mr. Moranjkić. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11190	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues we have witnessed in recent months that we are working intensively on a development strategy, or as the document is already called Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this context, I will ask one question that can indeed and should be treated as a matter of developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in the field of transport. In fact, we recently ratified, I don't know if the procedure was brought to an end, a convention or a document of a similar name that regulates the regime, I would say Save as a waterway. Although I was born quite far from Sava, I am familiar with the fact that my colleague Munib Jusufović knows better that there have been river ports in Brcko and some other cities, some other places on the Sava River and there have been relatively developed river transport. Of course, both internal and inside Bosnia and Herzegovina and the formerly common state and connections to wider European waterways such as the Danube, etc. I also know that in these places there were citizens of the verse of the area, so the population who, unlike the coastal areas, were river boaters, etc. And that in these curulent times that have occurred, they have spread around the world and that, in fact today, some river photos or river to tell the sailor or already, as it is called, almost there is no such thing as Bosnia and Herecegovina. My question is – Do you intend to use this potential, especially some places of Bezovo Polje, etc. have been known to adequately connect the Sava River waterway with other river type waterways, i.e. Danube in Europe, etc. In view of some of the surveys, this transport is actually much cheaper, and how in the strategic plans of other countries is it present and seriously counts for it? - Is there any intention of using it to say, are these people who are somewhere in other fleets to rebuild the Bosnia and Herzegovina's river fleet? Of course transport, trade, etc. etc. I will, of course, deliver this in writing, and otherwise I ask for an answer in writing from the Council of Ministers, counting that the Council of Ministers will consult on this response both entity and relevant levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11191	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Mr. Moranjkić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11192	My question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers normally. I ask the Council of Ministers - When will they pass the new customs tariff law of Bosnia and Herzegovina? 14 For the existing Law, refreshed under the supposed decision on the alignment and establishment of the 2004 tariff of BiH, which came into force in 1.1.2004, did not bring anything new, on the contrary, it was simply prescribed the old tariff-rate. And everything old is out of line, and most of it doesn't have its required function anymore. On the contrary, many customs solutions are illogical and real mess and chaos in the country, and this decision is just a form of doing something about this problem. I'm afraid it's not over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11193	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. Dr. Hadžiahmetović picked up the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11194	Thank you. Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have three questions, i.e. two questions and one initiative. There have been several speeches here on several occasions about the need for an emergency formation of a concession commission in accordance with the Law on concessions adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina nearly two years ago. Unfortunately, we still do not have a proposal to draw up a concession committee which, among other things, is a syncoanon for any activity in engagement, i.e. working on, among other things on Corridor V-c which has been discussed on several occasions. But I'd like to warn you of this occasion. In line with the concessions package at entity, or cantonal level within Bosnia and Herzegovina, some cantonal congregations have already formed concessions commissions and are granting concessions to certain goods of general national importance for Bosnia and Herzegovina and should also be in the exclusive jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the concession commission. I suggest that the College initiates the Council of Ministers an emergency formation of a concession commission, because any further delay will make it too high. And I would like to warn that it will question the implementation of projects of type of Corridor V-c and other infrastructure projects. The second question I ask concerns the activities of the Council of Ministers and of this parliamentary assembly and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the mandated budget promoter of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state institutions. We are almost before the beginning of March of the month, we still haven't even received the first draft budget, the 2004 Budget Proposal. Any delay in the procedure will be called into question and the financing of institutions. Therefore, both the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers, etc. The question and initiative under urgent initiating the proposal, namely the submission to the Parliamentary Assembly of proposals or draft budgets for 2004. 15 And the third question concerns the position of entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina that play a role, so-called ". independent regulators. I used the term "so-called" on purpose. It refers to agencies already formed by the CIA The State Commission, the Energy Regulatory Commission, the concession committee to be formed, etc., many therefore independent regulatory agencies or independent regulators whose position with both national institutions' budgets and their activities and regulatory functions is not clear. The issue concerns, the issue concerns the Council of Ministers, and the initiative to establish, by means of one act, the position of independent regulators, the links of independent regulators with state institutions, the means of financing or transparency of the financing of independent institutions and, of course, the financing of state institutions and the independence of the regulatory function that independent regulators should perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11195	I thank Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Thank you. We're closing the second item of the agenda. Thank you for not spending an hour on all those MP questions. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. That's Ad.3. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on an emergency mediation procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for this Act with a request for an emergency procedure pursuant to Article 104. You've won the rules of procedure of this house on February 12th. I am opening a debate on a request from the Council of Ministers to discuss this law in a shortened procedure. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is in favour of accepting a proposal from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a Mediation Procedure Act in accordance with Article 104? Rules of Procedure? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously accepted within the third item of the agenda the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a Mediation Procedure Act in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. 16 We move to the fourth item of the agenda. That's Ad.4. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Bill with the request of the Council of Ministers for Emergency Procedure in accordance with Article 105, you also received on February 12th. The information is a law imposed on a temporary basis by the High Representative. I'm opening a hearing on a request from the Council of Ministers. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. Who is it to take the initiative of the Council of Ministers to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High and Court Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with Article 105? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So of the 33 MPs present, there were 30, there was no one against, there were three abstentions. So we have the majority, we have the entity majority. So now let's get to the point of the law. Who is it for us to accept the Amendments and Supplements Act on the High and Court Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? Do you mind? Abstained? So I realize that 32 MPs were in favour, there is no one against, 1 abstention and that we adopted the Amendments and Supplements Act on the High and Court Prosecutor's Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're moving to the fifth item of the agenda. That's Ad.5. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on New Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11196	The speaker of the House, Mr Nikola Špirić, called for the word. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11197	Fellow Members of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I think it is good to discuss new amendments to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina today, but I regret that the Council of Ministers may have missed a chance to find a better formula for amending Article 1. And here's what I'm going to read in Article 1 - Paragraph 18(a) of Article 1. The law deletes the words "maximum 3" and Article 18 after Article 3 adds the following position 4 which reads: "Excludingly from the relevant provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, international prosecutors are authorised to use English in their proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina or in their part-time affairs. The translation, interpretation of one of Bosnia and Herzegovina's official languages, provides a judicial interpreter." I don't mind, therefore, being allowed to speak English and yes, but what is controversial in this law is that language equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because if it is said here that translation of the interpretation into one of the official languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina will provide a judicial interpreter. It could have been more specific that the defendant's tongue would be used to understand the lawsuit, to understand the verdict. A Bošnjak, once a Srbin, once a Hrvat, will be saddened, and that can enable language equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for these reasons, I would like this to go to regular procedure, or to a shortened procedure. I don't think anyone in this room would mind this change being like this, but I'm very sorry that the Council of Ministers doesn't take care of what it is, Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it doesn't create a mood for no one to look at it. And not only about this law, but also about the next proposal of the sixth item of the agenda. It is - The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on new amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, where it has the same formulation. That'll be one of the reasons. If there's no mood today, we can only correct the last sentence. I'll be abstentions to this law, or vote against. There's no point in playing these things in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I guess we need to create an atmosphere to get into a normal situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11198	We need to declare, adopt, and then change. The rule of law, yes, 28.10.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11199	Did we verify it here?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11200	No, we're not. This is a verification. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11201	Please nice, then. This is a verification. Please, don't change my remark whether it's declared or adopted. So this is one remark that we as MPs must be aware of. Not necessarily for our relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina when It's about keeping an eye on the High Representative or someone from the OHR. [[knowledge or councilman, not understood]] We as MPs who want to arrange relationships must take care of it. And I say the OHR won't mind that we regulate it on one sentence to say that it will be provided by the interpreter and that the translation will be in the language of the defendant or the defendant. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Filip Andrić, then Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11202	Dear Chairman, I fully share my views with the previous speaker, Mr Špirić, our chairman, in so far as I wish to come out here with a concrete proposal. We keep repeating the practice that imposed laws come to us under Article 105 to accept, with a reason, that we cannot change it until we accept it. I suggest we give this back nicely to the Council of Ministers, so he can send us again as part of Article 105 of the proposal to accept it, but at the same time send us an article 105 and a proposal to amend and supplement this bill, and then we'll accept it nicely in the package. On the one hand. On the other hand, I must note that in addition to the three official languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are introducing both the judiciary and the fourth official language in English. Whether it's constitutional or not, you can evaluate it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11203	Thank you. Mr. Novaković answered for the word, so Mr. Beriz Belkić. Novaković and Belkić. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11204	Dear guests, I must say that Mr Andrić has taken the proposal from me, so the essence is that we would have to provide in some way that the amendments and additions of this law will pass in parliamentary procedure. The only model of security of this is to compare this law and the Law on Amendments and the addition of this law that is now on the agenda and thus ensure that we here in the 19 parliamentary procedure ensure that we do not have this situation that Mr. Chairman spoke of, which is evident. For this reason, I am joining this proposal and we will not support this law but we are proposing to reach a conclusion and return it to the process of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11205	I thank my colleague Novaković. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered for the word, so Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11206	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am trying to understand the concerns of the predecessors when it comes to the equality of the people and the official languages, etc. But this looks a little like a vaccination, or some kind of obstruction. In fact, if you carefully study the law and in this context this formulation in one of the official languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you will come to the conclusion that there is absolutely no way to endanger the right of all participants in the procedures to ask for the matter to be handled in their native language and that they understand it. I don't think there's really any reason to worry about this species that's been shown here and we're going to support taking over this law. Of course we won't lose anything if we take it today. This does not slow down initiatives to change and complement who needs to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11207	I thank Mr. Belkić. Replica Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11208	There's no need for Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11209	Ladies and gentlemen, I want the public working to dismiss this indignity that someone cares about obstructing. He doesn't care to obstruct, but to solve and to seek a solution. So I am ready to vote for this in the way Andrić suggested, that the Council of Ministers propose an amendment, against which neither you nor Mr. Belkić have anything. We agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11210	He didn't come out for a pay phone. Let's adopt 20.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11211	Well, look, let's adopt it's a push-in. Yeah, yeah, let's adopt, and then we'll know that later. Please be nice, so if the Council of Ministers, as far as I'm concerned, I'm willing to vote for this. If the Council of Ministers delivers by emergency procedure tomorrow and this request, I will vote for both. You know, there have been persuasions of those in previous periods, so no one thought to support it. I think we need to relax the situation so we can understand each other, not who's gonna cheat on who today or tomorrow. I'm not ready, and neither are you. So it's not the intent of obstruction, it's the intention of confirming the law, and it's the intention of amending the law so no one would mind. I didn't even say what language. Here, the court interpreter can say – I provided a translation into one of the languages. That's what the law says. And because one of the Srbin, Hrvat or Bošnjak doesn't like it, he doesn't care. So no, I don't think this is a problem for anyone. And if we're in a hurry, we'll give the Council of Ministers a warrant to do it. Why are we running away from it? Let the light turn on, let the light burn for 24 hours in this building. At five o'clock, you don't have a cleaning lady in the Parliament building here, let alone the Minister. They're not here today to hear what we're talking about. Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11212	If I remember correctly, and it is good to check the procedural laws applicable to the judicial authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the issue of using language, in particular the rights of parties in the process, has been settled. I don't think even such a formulation raises the question of this right of parties before judges and other bodies. But maybe there's some finesse that leads someone to doubt that in full capacity that right would be used and I understand this kind of, let me say caution, or here's someone else practicing it. But the reason I came out is the next one. In my own time, I have come from this pay phone, and some have suggested that the College of this House better say the College of Parliament, so both at home, try to agree with the authorities in the institution of the High Representative, so in OHR, one more technically acceptable, and essentially the same, one modality of confirming the law that would not actually mean the identical text of printing, delivery, so to say reviewing or adoption of that law, which would be a confirmation, but rather a special law that applies to one of these declared laws with two members, in which it would be that the law declared by the High Representative of that day, by the decision of that time and then, simply that condition which we are subject to in fact to our relations and the possibility of passing the law, is simply the necessary solution. That would be a better solution, especially when it comes to more extensive laws, and you know there have been such laws. 21 Regarding this particular question, let me give my opinion. Although, and of course, we hate to say it, but that's how the High Representative declared the law. Unfortunately, we cannot change him or anyone's joy during his confirmation. That is why I really do not see any reason to question today the confirmation of this or any other law which is on the agenda, but of course the then-authorised Proposer, any law, or the Council of Ministers, or one of the MPs may offer amendments and additions to that law that we are confirming today, or the basic text of the law. At first glance, it seems that it is more practical to obtain, in parallel with the confirmation of the law, the text of a law that is changed in a part in which we may not be satisfied. In principle, I am not against such a solution either, but let the binding of these two questions not and the conditionality will not result in maybe passing this law. And whether we want it or not, until we confirm the law. The law declared by the High Representative is part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system, although not by our will as sovereign to the extent that we are sovereign of the legislative body, but by someone who seems more sovereign at the moment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For this reason, my only suggestion is that, again, the College is dealing with this issue by changing the law form in agreement with the High Representative, and, on the other hand, that, as far as I am concerned, if we intend to change the laws, we will confirm the first law, even if it is necessary to fence anyone who wants to come out here and say what they are not satisfied with, and that someone who is in charge, any Council of Ministers, any MPs, etc. suggests changes and additions that then simply have a cleaner scene to say so, although solutions can essentially be the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11213	The word was repeated by Mr. Nikola Špirić. Wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11214	It's not the quote. So this is a debate where we have to find a solution. I agree that we cannot change what is imposed by the High Representative, because those are the rules. But today we can confirm this law and, in conclusion, oblige the Council of Ministers to go to changes to ensure language equality.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11215	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11216	Well. We can confirm that this is not considered an obstruction, that we confirm today these laws, and that we are asking the Council of Ministers in accordance with the debate, because everything else is losing its meaning. So according to the same procedure as we confirmed today, because this is a short 22 changes. If such a mood exists, we could finish this job today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11217	Here's my thanks to Mr. Špirić. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11218	Mr. Novaković. Here you go. It's prescribed, just like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11219	It's okay. It's okay. There's nothing to argue about. You're making a mess of it. We could be done by now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11220	Dear colleagues, I've had the correction of Mr. Ćeman's false claim. In fact, this is not about the right of parties to use their language, but about the freedom of a court interpreter to choose a language, to choose a language in which he will conduct a translation, or interpretation. So that's not the point. So I appreciate that it's procedurally regulated in the way Mr. Ćeman said, but this isn't the case here. Here is the case of the right, therefore, of the right to choose an official language by an interpreter, a court interpreter.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11221	Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11222	I thank my colleague Novaković. I think we found a compromise. Mr. Avdić, if we can, I don't mind if you take your word for it. So to confirm today this request by the Council of Ministers, we hereby oblige the Council of Ministers to offer, by the same procedure, amendments and additions to equality that will resolve what we have talked about, the equality of language to provide. Thank you very much. Who, therefore, am I concluding the debate to accept the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on New Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with Article 105? Yeah, let's get to the bottom of this. First adoption, then let's get to the bottom of this. Well, I believe, there's no need for us to be here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11223	Let's Momo to conclusions first. What's wrong with you people? Well, I guess we trust each other here. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11224	Who's for please nice? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I think we found a solution that solves things. I ask you nicely of 35 present, 30 for, no one against, abstentions five. I agree that we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on New Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with Article 105. Now we're confirming the law. Who is in favor of accepting this law in accordance with Article 105? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? It's good. The wealth of language enthralls us. What are you fighting about? I don't mind the language. Please, of the 35 present 30 for, versus 1, abstention 4. I konstatovati that we have adopted the proposal for a law on new amendments and additions to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to vote on the conclusion. Who is it to task the Council of Ministers to propose amendments and additions to this law, in accordance with the same procedure, to ensure language equality in the way we have spoken? Who's in? Who's against it? No abstentions. Thank you. See how there's a solution for everything. I understand that we have unanimously accepted this conclusion and are pleased to move to the 6th point of the agenda. That's Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on New Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. I just have to say that this conclusion applies to this article, because the same problem defines it. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. 24 Let’s go to the plea. Who's in favour of accepting the Council of Ministers' request to conduct a debate under Article 105? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of the 35 present, the vote was 30, against no one, five were abstentions. I figure we have a majority and an entity majority. We therefore accepted the Council of Ministers' request to discuss in accordance with Article 105. Now we're making a statement about the law. Who is it to accept the proposal for a law on new amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So out of the 35 docks it voted 29. It was against him, he wasn't nobody, abstention 5, one didn't vote. I am pleased to conclude that we have adopted the proposal for a law on new amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we're moving to the seventh item of the agenda. The conclusion remains the same as of course for six points. For it applies, and regulates the same matter of language equality. And by 7, we're going to go to Ad. 7. The proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Intelligence Agency (first reading) is proposed by the High Representative. It was addressed to lawmakers on 29 December 2003. A joint defence and security policy committee is in charge. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on the draft law on 6 January 2004. The committee's report was delivered on 20 February. I note that it is the law in the first reading. I would also like to say that today's session is attended by Mr. Kalman Kočiš, a former ambassador of Hungary to Bosnia and Herzegovina, chairing the expert group that has worked hard, agreed with expert teams and came up with a proposal for this law. I thank him for attending this session today and for showing great concern with the fate of this law and willingness that if there is a need for further clarifications regarding this law. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11225	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I would just like to inform this home and the public that I have sought to postpone this item of the agenda, means from today's session on behalf of the SDS Club, which is very important for the adoption of this law debate that will follow at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. In the light of the fact that I did not get consent from the College to this kind of delay, and given that the National Assembly is scheduled at the same time as this session, we have been convinced, and now we are a belief and not only on this law, but also on future laws that we must respect ourselves so much if it is necessary that all laws signed by all political parties as a condition for entering and signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement must be an expression of the will of all of us and must be agreed upon by them, even in situations that are unacceptable to others. Unfortunately, we didn't have that support, but also, given all this, which was preceded by this law, as well as the fact that the law is largely in the commission phase in line with the remarks we had, we will therefore support the constitutional basis, so we will support the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11226	I thank my colleague Novaković. I want to inform you that it is true that the SDS has requested a delay or a session or this part of the agenda for the reason that the National Assembly should give its vision. I must say, there was no mood in the College for us to make decisions by consensus. If the National Assembly, and today it shows muscle, which I doubt, it is not too late for the next session to make reservations on this law. If it took the National Assembly five months to transfer powers to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, it is called Mr. Novaković in one other word. And I said, I chair here, Mr. Kalinić and the National Assembly were able to plead on this law. They formed expert teams, gave people, and gave consent, so the joint commission of both homes gave consent and said good principles. And what Mr. Kalinić needs now is for him to humbly nod his head at the National Assembly today and say that we are pleased to pass this on. And I think that the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament should do its job, and the National Assembly should do its job. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Replica. Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11227	It's obvious that we don't listen to each other and that it happens to us because we don't listen. I wasn't talking about the National Assembly here, I was talking about the SDS Club's position and the SDS's request. I don't know what the position of the National Assembly will be. 26 I still considered it to be unlike some here that this must be this and all the other laws must be the result of the agreement of all of us here. And I guess we showed that, or some showed by signing any statements at all possible levels in this country, so when it comes to the end of a statement he signs and moves on. Without any obligation to sign what he signed there in his work and exercise that I do not say that he adheres to what was signed. So, please, I just wanted to get to know the public that we were looking for it. I'm still convinced that it would be much easier for us to come to the law if we respected each other more. But here's the thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11228	I thank my colleague Novaković. Let's move on. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Križanović, and Džaferović, and Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11229	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the SDP BiH Representatives' Club supports the adoption of the Intelligence Security Agency Act as well as the overall reform of the intelligence sector. We support this from the belief that this reform will allow greater security for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and further strengthen sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We would also like to stress that we highly appreciate the OHR's engagement in this reform and particularly the very successful work of the commission formed by the OHR and which ended this job five months ago. However, the fact that the Council of Ministers has not adopted this draft law that, therefore, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and its deputies have failed to agree on this bill and in a regular way to refer this law to parliamentary procedure, I would like to conclude that for the first time, as far as I know in our practice, we have this bill entering a small door by the High Representative, which is why I also want to point out that it is not in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of our home. I think that because of all of this, very much time has been lost and that Parliament has been brought into great delay in relation to the deadlines set in this proposal for law. And what is particularly important, I think we will have, given this introduction of major problems and we have a lot of reasons to suspect that this law will be effectively implemented. So while this proposal is a significant step in regulating the security sector and regulating Bosnia and Herzegovina as a normal state, there is nevertheless a series of provisions that need to be improved to that end. I unfortunately didn't get a report from our defense and security commission so, other than this, uh,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11230	It's the Šefik's sigh. It's nothing special. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11231	I'm going to be in a situation where I can possibly repeat something that has already been accepted by the commission and done it as a repair in this bill. So we in the globally can support this law, but we believe that several important repairs will define our final statement. First of all, we have one principled remark that a provision of this bill cannot be accepted that speaks about how to unite existing intelligence services in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. We believe that this is a mechanical method of merger and that this law should be stated - until the entry into force of this law ceases with the work of the intelligence entity service, and that the admission to Bosnia and Herzegovina's intelligence agency will be carried out in accordance with the criteria prescribed by the Directorate, i.e. the Agency's Directorate, we also consider that despite the fact that jobs in this agency are very serious, responsible etc. that over-emphasised benefits are employees of this agency compared to police forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as security advisory services are concerned, we believe that a special internal policy and security office should be established at the Council of Ministers to carry out professional analytical, advisory tasks for the needs of the Council of Ministers in the field of defence and security. Of course, the establishment of such a body should be regulated by other regulations, not by this law. We believe that it would be necessary at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as in other modern democratic states to establish a Security Council as an advisory body whose members, in addition to experts, advisers, would also be members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, presidents of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Security, Minister of Defence and Minister of Justice, the head of the Office for Internal Policy and Security, as well as the Director of the Notified Security Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We think it is not acceptable for someone who is not a member of the Council of Ministers to be equal with ministers in terms of rights and obligations and that the ranking of the director of this agency should be in the ranks of other directors of similar institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also when it comes to budgeting, this agency stands out of all other institutions and budget users, and we don't think it has a basis for giving it special status when it comes to funding. Also, the procedure for the appointment of the director of the agency, we believe that an exception has been made and we do not think that a procedure should be laid down for the appointment of a director from the prescribed procedure under which the Council of Ministers works when it comes to appointments. In particular, we believe that it is unacceptable to make a provision to check members of the Intelligence and Security Committee around the parliamentary commission, as the bill provides for a check of members, please members of the 28 parliamentary committee. This is unacceptable because the parliamentary commission is overseeing the agency's work and no one from the agency can check members appointed by the Parlametary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's so much for now. I think it's about the necessary adjustments that don't come into the essence of the agency itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11232	I thank my colleague Križanović for his word, Mr. Džaferović, the vice-president.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11233	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, before I leave or begin my discussion, let me just say briefly why I publicly expressed a sign of surprise as Mr. Križanović spoke. I agree that it's not right for me to do that while I'm sitting here in this place, but believe that sometimes a man hears such things that he can't control himself, he has to react immediately. It is an amazing thing that the Commission's report, which was completed on Friday, and it is a very large report, did not get MPs who are club presidents and who have offices here in the Parlametna building and I ask Parliament's Professional Service to submit a report on whether the Commission's report, the Joint Defence and Security Commission, was delivered to MPs. So that's one thing. I want that thing right here to know, who, whether the Service isn't doing well or some other things that don't have much to do with the truth. I want that thing cleared up. That's one thing. Second. It is no longer possible to submit amendments to this law. The law came into parliamentary procedure on 23.12.2003, and until the day the commission was held, and the commission was held on 17 and 18 February, it was possible to submit amendments. I've heard some solutions that my predecessor put out here today that I would agree with. Let's say some of these solutions were the subject of discussion on the commission and, of course, some solutions that I disagree with, but in any case today, it is no longer possible to put amendments into practice and it is known to all of us here after a year and a few days as we work in Parliament. That's why I said it, which is why I expressed the public sign of surprise sitting at the post of vice chairman of this house. Now comes my discussion. So esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a very important day for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina because today we need to enter the procedure of adopting a very important law, a very important law for every country and for our country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 29 The intelligence agency that is due to be established today would be the first act in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament to be responsible for the collection, analysis and distribution of intelligence data in order to protect security, including sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is the first principle of this law. I want to talk today about the principles of this law and the role of the deputy chairman of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who under the circumstances and led the session of this committee and signed its report. Secondly, the agency is a civilian intelligence security institution that will have the status of an independent administrative organisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The third agency has jurisdiction in the territory of the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Its composition comes and ceases to work on 1.4 this year by intelligence security institutions that previously operated in Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities, i.e. in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. On the territory of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the day of entry into force of this law, no other civilian intelligence security structure can be established or operated. This service will comply with European standards, as provided for by the law, be under four types of control, under parliamentary control, judicial control, administrative control and internal control. Today we have a chance to get a law based on the principles on which laws governing this area are based in modern, modern European and world states. So much for the principles of law. And I call on the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to support the principles of this law and vote today in the first reading. As far as I'm concerned, I am ready to go to another reading, but if there is no willingness to go to another reading today, then I will certainly insist as a member of the College that the session of Parliament is scheduled as soon as possible because by the end of this month we have a deadline given by the High Representative to adopt this law in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in both, of course, in both readings. About 120 amendments have been submitted to the law. The Commission, the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy, has considered these amendments with the assistance of representatives of the international community, particularly with the assistance of the head of the OHR Working Group for the reform of this area and for the drafting of this law, the present Ambassador Mr Kočiz, has adopted 49 amendments from 120 amendments. You will see from the Commission's report that it is part of technical amendments, and in part it is about the essential amendments for which I am saying here there was agreement and the international community. The amendments were therefore possible to invest regularly in the ordinary procedure until the end of the Commission's session, and after the Commission's session, the amendments could only be submitted to new aspects which were not covered by the Commission's session and amendments to the Commission's amendments, and I am in the capacity of, here are the members of the Commission and I have tabled 30 two amendments, and I immediately say amendments to Mr Moranjkić and Mr Felić, because they are not responsible for the fact that the Commission finished its work late Wednesday, and then wrote a report on Thursday, and on Friday, it was the last day or deadline for the amendment to be made here in Parliament, and it cannot go to the expense of the MPs, and this will be my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and this is my reply to Mr Moranjkić and Mr Felić that the amendments for me and their amendments here have been timely and that they need to enter the procedure of parliamentary debate. So, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to come forward with this, positively according to this law, and here on behalf of the Commission, I am taking the opportunity to thank Mr Kočiz for his great contribution to finally obtaining one of these very important laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11234	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Mr. Moranjkić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11235	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief. Me and my club, we'll probably vote for this bill because we know it's one of the reform laws, and we don't want to obstruct anything, and we're going to be transferred to that ater when it comes to reform laws, but in principle I can't stay deaf without saying a few words, so here's what I'm saying. I've also given this in the light of my amendments, and here I repeat in principle, if one bill came with 108 members, and 120 amendments were submitted to it, as is the case specifically with this law, then I come to a dilemma with three things that I'm saying here. First. Whether this bill is good at all, in other words whether or not it is good, so as such it should be returned, not to the processing of amendments, but to return it, in my opinion, if it is in principle we agree that it is wrong, to a total new structure and a new law to be passed. Or else. That it's a total obstruction of certain MPs, not to say everyone, or anyone else who stands behind them, and they normally carry that obstruction in this house through the separation of certain amendments that are invested in so much. And a third. This puts me in a position to question the seriousness of this House's work, and for the fourth time I don't know, and I'd like to hear it, if someone has a fourth thing to say, so I can accept it. And two. That's the first one. And I would like to go with one question, because by reading the report, here's what it says – that the High Representative delivered the proposal of this law to Parliament on 17.11.2003. So 31 over 3 months ago. I'd like to know, if someone told me where this three-month bill was wandering, where it got lost, and it was declared a reform law, then I'm just beginning to doubt what we're going to do with that non-reform law. When they get lost, we may not find them anywhere in someone's drawers. I'd like to know if it's this Parliament or if it's someone else, without being transferred to us like the last time it was an extremely painful situation when we transferred this thing to the Council of Ministers, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers was transferring to this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11236	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. The Republic is owned by Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11237	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have no objection that Mr. Moranjkić is humiliating and underestimating himself, but I do not allow him to humiliate and underestimate me, even at the very least other fellow Members. Well, I guess our role here is to make amendments. Then we shouldn't exist, let the High Representative or Council of Ministers pass laws, and then we shouldn't exist here. And Mr. Moranjkić is very often here saying that his right as an MP is compromised, and now he's telling a completely different story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11238	I thank my colleague Jovanović. Replica again Mr. Moranjkić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11239	I am sorry that my esteemed colleague Miloš Jovanović did not want to, or he could not hear and listen and accept my entire argument. I was talking about three options, and I asked for someone to tell me the fourth. It's not true what he said. I said - If 120 amendments come to one law, I didn't say they were unwarranted amendments. So, if I had said that, I would have accepted the replica that the gentleman is, but I said if 100 amendments came in and I put it in the first context, then I don't think that law is right, and as such it should be, not to supplement the amendments, but to return it to a complete new line of work. If that's it. And I put that in the first context. And I have not humiliated Mr. Jovanović, nor any fellow MPs, nor this house. I was talking about a phenomenon that started to come to us, that one member of the law appeared to us one and a half amendments. Then there's something wrong with the law. That's the first one. And if someone proves it's good, then we'll go get another, third or fourth solution. Therefore, I do not accept the explanation of Jovanović. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11240	Answer to the explanation, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11241	I'm sorry, I don't like to, but I'll just read it. Or it's a total obstruction of the MPs of this House. So we're making, if we've submitted the amendments, then we're making obstructions here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11242	I thank my colleague Jovanović. I ask my colleagues to refrain from further replicas. I think you two got along, and that's what I let you talk about until you smile at each other. Now, Mrs. Seada Palavrić answered her word. Let Mrs Ljiljana Milićević be prepared, then Belkić, then Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11243	Dear colleagues and colleagues and a special greeting to Ambassador Koci. I really want to express the grateful effort that Mr Kočić and the law-working group have made over the past year to get this law. On the quality of the law I wouldn't really convince anyone, enough to read the law, enough to read a letter from the High Representative who, unfortunately, was forced to appear here in the role of the promoter and agree, in a way that is indeed one of the most modern laws in Europe in this area. Besides, why don't you go with the amendments. In his letter, Mr High Representative said - give the Members of Parliament a chance to react and possibly correct the law in relation to its current, or original proposal. And we are really in a joint commission that is from both homes, where all three constituent nations have accepted a large portion of the amendment. I'm not sure that any of us liked each other, but in order to get the law, in order to continue this culture of political dialogue and a new compromise or consensus, we have accepted such a large number of amendments. On the need to pass this law, I don't think any of us should talk, because we all said last year that it was necessary from 1 January of this year to start the service at the state level, actually the agency, and that entities do their jobs. I, to be honest with all the MPs, not only did I expect parliamentary majority to have plebiscite support on this bill. And now I'm really uncomfortablely surprised by the discussion of the head of the SDP Club who would be returning this law, which is unacceptable to this, and in a situation where the SDP is about to portray itself as the loudest anti-demand fighter to be discovered by this very law. 33 Let us take the gentlemen of the 5th Law and observe the activity of the agency. Let's just take terrorism, take organized crime, drug trafficking, weapons and white slaves, illegal international production of weapons of mass destruction and trafficking, some of them are not punishable under international humanitarian law. I have drawn only some segments that cause Bosnia and Herzegovina to suffer terrible consequences in Europe and in the world, it carries epithets that it does not deserve, and it is up to us gentlemen to allow the agency to start working at the state level, because as long as they're broken up by entities, we cannot fight these evils and others that are within the authority of the agency. So, full support on behalf of the SDA Club and the principles and the need to pass this law and, by the way, one notice, I received a college report from the Commission on 20 February 7 minutes to 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11244	I thank my colleague Palavrić. I would pray, of course, that we try, I think that, I understand Mr. Križanović's discussion as one quite constructive object, and it's not good to have frustrations personal, especially according to the SDP, and that's why I think that part of the frustration should be kept, and that's why we're talking about the law. Mrs Milićević answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11245	Well, don't say that. You insult the president of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11246	No, I wasn't offended, I said I shouldn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11247	Well, you did insult her, you said she was frustrated with someone. How do you know that?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11248	We all see that there isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11249	Just hang in there for a second, I'm holding back, and you're holding back. Don't say that. Let her answer whoever she needs. Don't be a lawyer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11250	She's a minor, she'll replace you, dear.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11251	You're a lawyer for the SDP. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11252	I'm asking you to run a session. I just want to relax you a little bit, and they're not good frustrations, and they're not the Šefikove. Here you go, milićevićko.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11253	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I am not a little frustrated with this story.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11254	I think you're the most frustrated here. That's the joke.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11255	Here you go, Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11256	I apologize to you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11257	He should just apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11258	This is like a Spanish series.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11259	What are you supposed to do?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11260	I'd like some seriousness, please. We made a little joke. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11261	Look, I want to make my remarks about this law. They're specifically related, so I think this job is a big deal here contained in this bill. We go to European standards, there are normatives, but with this law happens one thing that is obvious in most of the laws that come before us, and that is what people ask, and that is actually a question for all of us in Parliament. We have item 6. financial resources for law enforcement. We are being persistent and the laws that we receive from the Council of Ministers, here in this law which did not come this way are the official sentences which read – the financial resources for the work of the Agency will be provided from the state budget in accordance with the Treasury Act and the like. 35 So here we pass laws that give great authority, prescribe certain things, and we are not able, nor do we have an estimate of how much it will cost Bosnia and Herzegovina. So at all our laws, we don't have the practice of getting an explanation, which is the practice of the countries in the world, so it's known in advance when a law is passed, when it comes to Parliament how much it's going to cost the framework implementation of that law. And I think that we actually have a problem after the implementation and implementation of the law just what we're about to enter into that process, and we didn't know how much it would cost us, so then we get problems with the accommodation, the centres, it costs so much. I believe that in terms of this law, in terms of all the laws, my initiative would be which, in future, we will receive with the law in a framework or that we know how much it will cost, because in this way we can have a projection and we can have a budget that is real and can start doing it exactly in the timing that is intended to meet our obligations. In this way we seem to build a tower in the air, and we have no foundation for it, nor do we have a basis for it. So that would be an initiative and perhaps an objection to this law. Secondly, I believe that the text of the law is not respected, and that is in law, for example, the defenses we have adopted with respect, this is not a respected law on gender equality. Well, here we have written law in the male race. If he or she brings, let's respect at least what the rule is to implement in the text of this law this gender equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11262	I thank my colleague Milićević. I just want a little answer to give, he's right when he says that there are no explicit means to implement this law, but I have to say to the public that the governments are entities, why it's hiding from the public, whether it's good or not, they signed agreements that for newly created institutions, they're going to automatically empty the concessions according to the state budget. Why are you reluctant to say this to the public I don't know it, but I do know that in such a way the leaders agreed to finance the newly created institutions. They are reluctant to talk about it, so I think that it is asking the question of counterpart Milićević, but here if she can be helped by this answer, and the government of the Republika Srpska and the government of the Federation have signed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11263	She didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11264	So we have to ask the members of the government, because you see they signed a general agreement. Yeah, well, that's those who exercise power. Okay. Please, nice. So the answer. I agree you should ask. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the word. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11265	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the Party's Party for BiH will refrain from elaborated for which we have both had places and opportunities and times and we will be determined immediately very precisely. So we will uphold the principles and principles of the law. We are even ready to discuss the law today in another reading, regardless of the number of amendments. So much for our relationship to the law. When it comes to funding, it would be good for the Council of Ministers to approach the whole thing in a different way for the public and for ourselves. So first, let's see how much the existing system costs the way it is today and I assure you that this project is certainly 40% cheaper. Only this should be done in a transparent and correct manner by both the public and the MPs. Therefore, I have no fear when it comes to the financial aspect of the entire project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11266	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Đedović answered for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11267	Can I? Gentlemen chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I understand the need and I support the absolute adoption of this law and I am also willing to join those that we are considering, to consider it in both readings, but I feel the need to present some concerns, which is why we should take account of. We form a law establishing a service that can be a cure, help this country, but if it is wrongly used to cause terrible problems, terrible problems, these problems can be talked about by those people who have felt them on their own skin, and believe me, there are plenty of them in this country. The other thing that's worrying is that this service includes all the things in the old ministry. I consider it necessary to form some criteria in terms of expertise, ethics, criminogenicity, because we know well what kind of services we have, what kind of people we have inside and what they are used for. So it all goes to a new one, changes the name, but it remains the essence. And I think in the accompanying documents, it has to be taken care of. So we need to make sure that we get a cure that we can properly use to achieve the effects and these noble goals that we're talking about here. Otherwise we'll have problems. The next thing you know about it is not well explained, at least by me, you have a 41st in front of it – rights and obligations. If you analyze more carefully, you have 5-6 members of the law, not a single member of the obligation. And the title is rights and obligations. I'm afraid the service was written by top professionals. I don't want to talk about the goals. I mean, he has his own, but as parliamentarians, we have to take care of the protection of innocent, correct people doing their job. Because they say the forbidden is physical coercion. Physical coercion today is the easiest force, which says more of a word of pain than a slap. Today there is a method of coercion God knows how many and 37 that are five times worse, more insidious with greater consequences than physical coercion. And that's allowed by this law. So there are problems that I think must be developed in following those sublaws to tell the acts that will enable, or prevent these possible consequences that I felt here the need to point out, That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11268	I thank my colleague Đedović. Hazim Felić answered the word, so Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11269	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, brief on the Agency's Law, Intelligence Agency, and I think the principles and principles on which the law rests are really good and Corketti. What is unusual for our opportunities is that the law is quite large, completely transparent, above all I mean in the way of service. So it's about how to collect and use the methods of people and techniques used by the service in its collection. It's a newspaper for our occasions and I think it's the first time it's ever appeared in this new agency. So all that method and means that the service applies and I think it's quite well and properly set up. The intensity of the work of the new intelligence service is, in fact, set up in Article 6 so that it will, in principle, be more engaged in counterintelligence activities in order to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina by all the 9 points listed in Article 6. I also think that in Article 24 that I have responded to with the amendment, unfortunately it is not accepted, a consensual circle of potential candidates for first functions in this service. I intervened, and I think there should have been an opportunity to expand, give a chance to another, maybe new people and younger people, so we wouldn't have happened tomorrow or after five years, the head of the service being a pensioner again. I don't think we really need that. I think the law is quite good, quite correctly set, quite large, quite precise and I think that those who manage the service with the supervision that Mr. Džaferović also spoke about outside management with the service by, here is the introduction of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, next to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I think with parliamentary oversight as planned, I think the service can truly avenge those noble goals my predecessor spoke of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11270	I thank Mr. Felić. Filip Andrić answers his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11271	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, here I must conclude, the first time I went out for a pay phone, that's when I claimed that we were introducing another new language into our 38 constitution, and now we are introducing into our rules of procedure another new promoter. It is the High Representative, proposing law to Parliament. I don't dispute that, given his authority, but I believe then that our Rules of Procedure should comply with this fact. It's good as a short introduction, but I have to express my desire here that I have no opinion of the Council of Ministers on this law, or I don't see at all that the Council of Ministers has been involved in the preparation of this law. I agree and absolutely support those who believe that this is an extremely important law, among other things one of the reform laws that are a condition for our cause and I am willing to give maximum support for the adoption of this law, but not for any other, but for the best possible law. This is a very sensitive area that really needs to be arranged in a very good way. It will also confirm the fact that when we discuss the commission's report on the watchdog, so-called. I know how many problems have caused the inaccuracy of legal solutions in this area, and therefore I really want to congratulate the commission that worked on this law, all the efforts they've made, and I don't want to support those who say that it's not good to make amendments. I think we should invest them until we get to the best possible solution, especially in these very important areas. I was reading this law, reading little and the amendments that were proposed, and even those adopted saw that there were still a lot of things that were unsaid. So here's what I'm going to ask myself -- if we're introducing a deputy, we're introducing one deputy, not two, probably with the aim of ensuring, how a colleague of Ljiljana said there's no guaranteed gender equality, I guess here we're trying to ensure the equality of the constituent peoples, that is to remove the possibility of any of the constituent people being neglected in this very important service. So I don't get it, if he already has a deputy, then why don't they have two? If that's what we're going towards, the abolition of a constituent nation, I don't know. Secondly, I also had the opportunity to read the recommendations of the Council of Europe, their recommendation in 1402, I see, unfortunately, that it was not fully respected on the Commission although there were amendments in that direction. I don't know if it's overlooked or how the Commission didn't respect the amendment, let's say Vinko Zorić, who was concerned with Article 5 of the Law where white slave trade is being talked about. The Council of Europe's recommendation clearly includes human trafficking. If the trafficking of white slaves is forbidden, does that mean it's allowed for black and yellow slaves? I'm a bit of a cartoonist, but unfortunately someone can come to that conclusion. Furthermore, the amendment concerning Article 77, where the service, of course, has the right to apply certain specific methods, treatments and, among other things, permanent listening, says clearly in the Council of Europe's recommendations that listening may take a maximum of 60 days with subsequent approval and a maximum of 30 days. It's been here twice 60 days. The recommendations of the Council of Europe state that after listening, the service is obliged to inform the person they have been listening to. There's no such thing in our bill. 39 Here are just some of those things that I have noticed, and there are others that this law does not fully comply with the recommendations of the Council of Europe, and I hope that we all aim to bring all the laws that we adopt in line with European legislation, i.e. we are obliged to comply with these recommendations. Therefore, I would not agree with the chairman, Mr Džaferović, when he said the amendments could no longer be invested. We had a situation when we had a debate here on the laws, so we finely extended the amendment phase to the House and fixed the law. I don't think we're gonna lose much time if we give ourselves more room to fix this law. Not to break the law, not to pass the law, and I want to state my position here personally that I am not willing to support it this way, but I ask that the Commission be given another 7 days, that if nothing is in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe or, respectively, respect these amendments concerning harmonisation. And in that sense, I am asking other colleagues for understanding and not to be misunderstood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11272	I thank Mr. Andrić, the word was asked by Mr. Nikola Špirić, so Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11273	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, respected ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, I think we are looking forward today to the fact that the House of Representatives is showing the maximum amount of seriousness in this law, which has seen this as a responsible job, unlike the Council of Ministers who has not been able to agree and this law is addressed to Parliament, and it seems to me that it was, in order to reduce the need for amendments and less needs for perhaps some additional clarifications. But what's done is done. I appreciate the great effort that has been put into making this law. On this law, you know as well as I have been working out for a long time. International and domestic experts have been working and have come to the bill and I disagree that this is the best law. When someone says this is the most modern law in Europe, I'd rather have a bad laugh. This law is the product of compromise and it is the best possible solution at this time for BiH and should be interpreted accordingly. In that sense, I think it is good that the Commission has had the strength to comply with amendments that improve the text and which do not derivate the law. I myself have made some amendments in terms of detailing the Bureau's obligations and the Council of Ministers. I wasn't blindly in love with my amendments, some compromise solution that relaxes the situation, I think that's good, and of course I won't insist on the other amendments, because they lose their meaning after what the Commission did. Why is it good to have this law? It's good to help people who work in illegal today. You see, we're just working to pass the law, and already with a formed group of people who will be chiefs. They're uniting two services, today on the ground, so if they were to ask someone what they're doing, they're absolutely out of the law, they can't apply entity laws, and there's no state. So I think this legal solution should be adopted as soon as possible. And I'm ready today, so I don't think that the ideal principles are, to support the law in my first reading, but since there was a short time between the Commission's meeting and today's 40th session of Parliament, since there are therefore amendments to the amendments to the amendments in business, I have to say that I haven't studied them and that I can't take a stand on the additional amendments. If the mood were to be created if there were no additional amendments, today I would be willing to read about the law and in another reading, if everyone withdraws the amendments. But if everyone stays with their amendments, I'm asking that we have another reading for this law. So if everyone shows the mood to withdraw the amendments, to respect what the Commission has done, to respect what our committee has done together, I am willing to vote in another reading for this law. And if it stays with the supplemental amendments, please read the second one. So, I will support this law in my first reading, and I am willing to support it in the second reading if there are no additional amendments, if there is regret, I can't agree with at least me, with the second reading today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11274	Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11275	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I would also like to express my opinion that the law is necessary for BiH and that it is from this group of reform laws and that I objectively propose that we vote on this first reading and then give our vote for this text of the law, with my suggestion objectively that these discussions that were present today and amendments that would improve the text of the law find their place and sublaws and in realisation, i.e. the implementation of this law on verticality in BiH. Why am I saying that? Because simply one fundamental principle, the creation of this law, is that the law or the Agency must be depolitized as it says in another member of the apolitical, the mechanisms for such a simple principle are not ultimately incorporated, because you have several simple institutes that are objectively termed conditionally by a parliamentary majority that simply rules in one state. A position 2 which is the fundamental position of this law is said to be the Agency's civilian intelligence and security institution that will have the status of an independent BiH administrative organisation. If so, which it is and the team should be, objectively its connection with the Council of Ministers with the Council of Ministers, with the advisory body of the Council of Ministers is absolutely so integrated that it is simply partly unacceptable in this law. And it should be considered how to easily facilitate, disburse both the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the advisory body, from the aspect of these functions which are supervisory functions over the simple Security and Security Intelligence Agency of BiH. So, on the basis of this institution in order not to become a weapon of political power and of the current ruling elite, it is objectively necessary to take care of the depoliticality of this institution. Which means, and take only a high degree of jurisdiction and the leadership of this institution by the Council of Ministers warns it, and 41 Ambassador Kočiš has made it quite clear here, in part, to his coldness and to his fear of Article 10, which says, the chairman cannot, either in general or in part, assume the responsibility of the Director-General or Deputy Director-General established by this law, confirms my fear and words simply that the high degree of responsibility of the Council of Ministers and of the Council of Ministers, who, in his capacity, will probably not be able to meet these obligations that he has of any less than, or more than 12 obligations of the Council of Ministers, 12 obligations, advisory office, executive board, chairman of the Council of Ministers and two deputies, people, this is a high degree of politicisation of this institution. I would beg simply if it were possible in the sublaws of the implementation of this law to take care of this matter. It is a bit simple for the control institute, and it is the Security and Intelligence Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So, once again, this agency must not become the weapon of the current political elite in any situation, in any sphere or environment. So that's what it's supposed to be about. I would ask, we should be obliged, to ask Ambassador Kočiš who we highly appreciate his contribution and the Republic of Hungary, but especially in this business, to prepare this law, to answer one question, whether this law is in line with the standards of the Council of Europe, or the European Community. In order not to do two jobs, and so after receiving, we have said, our every law should have one conditionally said symbly, symbolically said that it is in line with principles, i.e. the White Paper, or standards of the European Community. My question, so if it is possible for Ambassador Kočiš to confirm on behalf of the task force whether it is in line with the Council of Europe's intensities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11276	Thank you, colleague Avdić. Is there anyone else to answer for? I'd like us to bring in, here's a colleague of Suljkanović, so Mr. Dr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11277	Mr. Chairman, I see that you are listed, dear colleagues, I am one of the members of the Commission of this joint two home numbering 12 members and therefore I have come out to say that there have been 120 amendments to this law. I am sorry if all colleagues have not received this, the conclusions of this Commission, but only to inform you then that the Commission has accepted 49 amendments. I mean, the Commission has been working very responsibly for two days and that we have brought this, attitudes and text of the law and with most of these amendments Mr Kočiš has agreed as a promoter. Therefore, I think that we are very close and difficult to achieve a greater consensus than we already have on adoption and I think it would be a shame to miss the opportunity today rather than adopt the law in both first and second readings. Thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11278	Thank you, Dr. Lagumdžija has answered for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11279	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, I am sure that I share the opinion of everyone here and that we all want to help each other here, to adopt one reform law that bears this name and that is to be persuaded. However, we also know well that this law has come before us under the circumstances that are least said strange, and I hope they are, that today we are talking about this, and among other things speaking about the circumstances in which this law occurred, we are going to do something to make sure that similar laws do not appear again under similar circumstances here. In fact, the fact that, as we've already heard from one of the members of the Commission, the law that has 108 members, it was, I was thinking 115, here I heard 120 amendments. And these amendments were about as straight as I knew it, 50 members. So half the members of this law had some amendment to it. I learned all of this, unfortunately, within a time limit that prevents any amendment to this, we give, or to be precise on fax one of us from the MPs' club has received, the first to receive this report from the Commission's amendment, was received at 17:51 from the Parliamentary Assembly 20. When you look at the calendar, you will see that it was Friday at 17:51, the first amendment adopted on the Commission was sent on Friday. We practically had very little time to look back at everything in preparation for today's session. It is also clear to me that it is time for us to adopt this on 1 March 2004. There are little more than 35 days or 5 weeks left, but I remind you from this letter you can see that the Parliamentary Assembly has been left relatively little time since the OHR sent this letter to us last year and we have been practically two months hoping that the Council of Ministers will respond properly. Why am I saying this? Don't get me wrong, but I really meant Mr. Chairman that if we were invited by the President of the Commission in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, then he, as an official guest, had the right and the obligation to address us if the High Representative didn't find it appropriate to do so. I honestly believe that the High Representative should be here today, to address us for one simple reason why this before Parliament comes a law that tells us a lot of things, not only as a law, but as the way it happened. Namely, this law shows in a certain way the reform character of the current Council of Ministers, and this is evidence of the adjudicating role of the Council of Ministers in relation to this Parliament no longer. This is in a certain way a gesture that shows that the authority of the High Representative is collapsing, as he no longer seems to be able to provide the flow of his laws through the Council of Ministers. We know there were other laws coming in if nothing after a great number of pressures. 43 What I also see here, in all this, is that not addressing us, today as Parliament, or the High Representative, or the Council of Ministers, is something we should not have allowed. I'm still expecting us to get a proper conversion. If not today, then before the second reading that, I'm against it being today. I find it inconclusive that today all of this is going through the way we got it. Why am I saying this specifically? Because in the decision of the High Representative, there is one sentence here using, calling, etc. and then finally confessing and stressing that no matter what I said, the president and the two deputy prime ministers of the Council did not submit the draft law to the Council of Ministers. In a decision ahead of us here, the High Representative emphasises that although he has agreed practically something with the president of the two deputies, the three of them have not even put this law on the Council of Ministers. And then this came to us. Let this require a serious debate in this House. By the way, I agree with those who spoke earlier, I don't know if Mr. Andrić, the last person I remembered, talked to others about it. We are as much as I remember and do not think that this list is exhausted, in the Law on Freedom of Faith, and then in the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, then in the whole package on indirect taxation, then in the Law on Defence, we had the opportunity to read the amendment to the Commission and after the first reading. Even in the Rules of Procedure which is now practically before adoption, this has been corrected in a way that we do not have to make any specific conclusions. It would be perfectly logical that today after the first reading, we re-send all of this to the commission stage, as we did in other, less complicated laws. Laws that had fewer amendments than this, and then to try these inconsistencies that apparently exist, remove them. I would also like today, since we are having a discussion of the principle, to make a statement about a principle that cannot do all things in future intelligence services. We have had big debates about this, and Parliament will be informed about this, during the work of this Commission that is investigating something completely different, about this, but objectively this law also needs to be arranged for some principles, which is who can't work in intelligence services for reasons I wouldn't be talking about here right now. They need to be defined by the law. I also warn that Articles 77 and 78 of this law, and according to amendments adopted, and that if I am wrong, there are no amendments concerning Articles 77 and 78 that have been accepted among these amendments that have been accepted by the Commission. We have established that I am the members of the Commission, who know this, which I am talking about more, and the Members of Parliament, have found that in the case that we are now investigating, that the Law on the Intelligence of an entity has been such that it has opened up the possibility of manipulation with the Criminal Procedure Act. Here members of the 77th and 78th of this law are no longer open to the possibility of manipulation in the way we have said, but are directly suggested. So, in the 77th and 78th laws that are before us, the full procedure is related to what the people call listening, now connected to the director, the Director General of Intelligence and one judge. Here he was completely expelled at least as to what to say the link or the point or the link or the guide according to the laws that we adopted, which should involve a little more people, or to be precise, not only the court but also the prosecution. 44 Here it is also not defined by this law to the members of 77 and 78 to remind you, such a defined matter, that it leaves the inaccuracy of whether these are such collected evidence, whether they are valid in appropriate court proceedings. If such an activity is done in the function of collecting evidence for a valid court case, then it must comply with the relevant law on criminal proceedings, and not to take what is not. So that's one, we've spent literally hours and hours discussing exactly how to prevent future manipulation that could be done by entity services because of the least said failure to complete the legal framework. I'm afraid this way here as a defined member of 77th and 78th opens up the possibility, I responsibly claim, even more manipulation than the Federation Intelligence Service Act allowed. I see you waving Beriz's head, am I right, Berize here?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11280	You didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11281	I didn't. Well, I'd like you to explain that to me, but I wish that I was a member of the 7th and 78th not to mention Prosecutor Berize, just the President of the Court.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11282	I'd like you to stay out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11283	A member of those who do not know what I'm talking about, the FOS Act, has been defined to listen to the director of Intelligence by Article 11. The FOS law can get a listening license from the court. Article 26 The law on FOS, which does not exist here, is spoken that when collecting these data in such a way, by listening, if these data are used in an appropriate procedure in front of the court, that they must be collected by a member, by the Code of Criminal Procedure, by members 130 to 135, which implies Berize and all others, I would especially like to see Ambassador Kočiš follow this... we have read unfortunately, but a member of the relevant Law of Intelligence in the Federation is resolved that if this material obtained by listening to the criminal proceedings is used before the court, it must be collected under the Code of Criminal Procedure. Here, the Code of Criminal Procedure is nowhere defined in the Law of Intelligence, which I responsibly claim is the possibility of even greater manipulation. Normally, there is a possibility that we can give everything to the court and the director of the General Intelligence Service, and I see here and the chairman, in which case the prosecution has moved out of the whole process again. I listed this only as an illustration, not as a final list of remarks I have. And that's why I, Mr. Chairman, would ask, not that today gives us more of the Council of Ministers and OHR's preliminary presentation because we can't give the opening statement after this many discussions, if nothing 45 is a matter of linguistic this, problematic, but to agree and to conclude that in another reading, we get the conversion of whoever is behind this law, or that the Council of Ministers tells us what their position is about all of this before it becomes known. And that's why I'd like to ask that we re-affirm the conclusions we had on the second law, which is to allow the amendment to take place before the second phase. Since the people of the Council of Ministers mentioned here have not done their job, since there is no Mr. Trzić, Mr. Ivanić and Mr. Čolak, I will now shut up and tell them that they are here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11284	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija, ladies and gentlemen on behalf of the College, therefore, common ground, break by 1:15 and please use for lunch and continue to work. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. The word came from Momčilo Novaković, followed by Mr. Martin Raguž, and that would bring the discussion to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11286	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, listening to all these discussions here, it is obvious that I could agree with some of them, but unfortunately, these discussions did not result in amendments as they were commercially foreseen. I could agree with Mr. Lagumdžija, if we had determined or if we had assigned one member who couldn't be in this service, but we didn't, unfortunately, and no one did it in time. And the insistence now on some kind of, uh, principle that we didn't, which we didn't have any objections to in the commission phase, and I think it's stretching out, so this whole decision-making process on this law. But I answered for something else. In fact, I am not far from thinking about respecting really great efforts, both the Intelligence Commission and the Joint Commission of both homes that have considered this law, and which has been working less on this law from one day to the next, from morning until evening, and one day away from thinking that maybe this process is a mood that Mr Špirić said that the new amendments to the amendments should be withdrawn, I am not far from even thinking about adopting this law today and in other reading, and in such a way here we end this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11287	I thank my colleague Novaković. The word is Mr. Martin Raguž. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11288	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the respected, members of the Council of Ministers, I really didn't mean to speak, but here is the extent to which the important role of Parliament is manifested and I think today Parliament has shown that one of the most sensitive reform issues here in one of the high-quality and tolerated atmospheres of interest and debate, and also the differences that have arisen and still appear, in some way, to coordinate. I would like to thank Mr Kočiš here, who had the opportunity and used it to suggest that this law should not be imposed but to come to Parliament. And I think that this one was a good recommendation, because it proved to me that even though there were differences, and there were, which in some way limited the Council of Ministers to come up with a proposal before this Parliament that it was good that Parliament had considered this issue and finally after what was happening today, I see that we are close to a solution with all the reserves that have been made here and according to certain concrete solutions and on the basis of those reluctances that we should all meet, which are standards of the veijeće of Europe and democratic countries within the EU. Therefore, by affirming this position of Parliament and the role, I think that today we can approach this, by accepting this law, in a way that we believe that this is the beginning of a state dimensioning of this issue, that tomorrow it will probably be necessary to analyse the overall functioning of this entire system and approach after half a year and that in this way we commit ourselves here that those things that are a restriction or limit will not be at the level of standards and change and correct. I think one such approach would show that we are entering these processes in which we will respond to needs. But why am I saying this? Because there were those who wanted to take or leave this law as a matter of principle. I think it's a good thing it was, that's what I picked up the most about, so let's have 100 amendments. I don't see what's wrong with that. And we're constantly being instructed here if we go out with the amendments, that we're possibly slowing down the process or that we want to do an obstruction. I responsibly reject any such and accept, not begging this, the ambition to bring Parliament here into this context. So I also expect it tomorrow and about the Law on Higher Education and any other law. To seek solutions in Parliament but to adopt the law. And don't, we're being told that even the decimal won't change here. And it's over the media, that it's opportunism, a category machine that we've been listening to for a long time. Well, we're not afraid of our words here, respecting everyone's argument. Here, this, respecting this approach, our club is therefore ready to support this law the way most parties in Parliament approach, taking into account everything Mr. Andrić said in some ways were the club's views, but looking for a solution to this situation here I suggest we approach that way. Thank you. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11289	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. Are there any more people in charge of the debate? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we've had a good discussion today about the proposal for a law on the Security and Security Agency of BiH. I think that the Commission, the Joint Commission of both homes, has made a huge effort, has accepted 40 amendments that, 49 amendments that have improved the text of the law, which become an integral part of the text of the law and we approach the declaration. Who is it for us to accept the Proposal for a Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH in our first reading? Please, please, I'll do it. Please, I'll do it. I don't think there's anyone here, Dr. Lagumdžija, who's trying to get in our way, especially you, Fata, you're a smart man, I don't think anyone's going to catch you in the crowd, but we've been having a good discussion today about this law. We have a Joint Commission report that has become an integral part of the text of the law. Unfortunately, many have spoken, I did not want to intervene, about the law as if there was no report from the Commission which became an integral part of the text of the law, and now that we have exhausted it, we are voting, therefore, on the law in the first reading, so on principles. So it's a logical sequence of things. If you need a five-minute break, I don't mind taking a five-minute break. You're looking for a five-minute break. A five-minute break at the SDP Club's request. Here you go. [[PAUZA]] We're continuing to work, five minutes have passed, on the SDP Club's representative's initiative is a request for a break. Is there a need, just a little please? Is there any need to explain why a break is sought? Dr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11291	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we have asked only for a break to clarify whether accepting this law with amendments that were accepted in the commission phase, does this mean that until the second reading, until the next plenary session, they cannot give amendments that reflect what we have discussed here today, as has been done in law cases even less complex than this one. It is my responsibility by the chairman, that today's acceptance of such a proposal by the chairman can no longer be given new amendments reflecting what we have been saying today. If this is an argument that is acceptable to the House here, then the SDP Club will not support such a law, because we feel that it is knowingly not 48 that the law that should be, our common result, is allowed to be a reflection of those mistakes that would not want to be repeated. We are responsible for saying that this is not the way to approach such serious things, but I am obliged to explain why we asked for a break and why we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11292	Thank you, please. I'm begging you not to go into replicas. The Republic was requested by Mr. Džaferović. We're bringing this to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11293	Look out, I think he does. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, there are certain things that should be said here at the pay phone, I mean after these steps, be careful. We have been applying the Rules of Procedure here in this composition for at least a year and two months, and we have learned this Rules of Procedure by heart and we know how long the amendments can be invested and we know when it is no longer possible to invest amendments. And the situation in which the SDP Club is located is not a complete home, I am not in this situation, it has been provoked or, it was created as a result of the sleep of the SDP from 23.12 last year, until today when this law is at stake, and now, and now, not the Rules of Procedure and the way this House works. And now it's trying to present itself here for this pay phone as a failure to complete the House. Gentlemen, you've reached the law of 23.12.2003. From that day on, you could have submitted 1,120 amendments. One of your delegates, in the House of Peoples, a delegate belonging to your political party, has tabled amendments to this law and these amendments have been the subject of a debate on the Commission and it is clear that the last moment of investment in the regular procedure of the amendment is a session of the Commission. After that, only Article 94 applies and only takes into account exceptional situations when the amendments are tabled. These are amendments to amendments and amendments that cover new aspects and you know it well. And now you're coming out to me for a pay phone to say you won't support the law because it doesn't contain something that you like you haven't had time to react to. You've had time to want to, and I want to say it here in public. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11294	Thank you, now the reply to the replica has a Mr. Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. I thought we'd avoid the replica, but unfortunately, that's impossible.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11295	You can take a magnetogram of esteemed colleagues and colleagues and see that my predecessor has said that we will not support this law to him. So we don't support him or anyone else individually. This is the law of BiH and that is what binds us. 49 I find it most lightly untasteful, accusing the SDP MPs here of waking up, and even if he accepted that it was true, I think it is much better than being in a position where both the High Representative and the Council of Ministers have not yet woken up before this Parliament when it comes to this law. So, at least we woke up here today, or 17.12, but the Council of Ministers and the High Representative sent us a post-law that none of them have yet seen come to this House awake. And if you want to investigate the sleeper, Mr. Džaferović, then it's certainly not the SDP address you should contact. I repeat again, here for correctness, that we only asked what we did in law such as the Law on Freedom of Faith, such as the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, such as the Law on Indirect Taxation and the Law on Defence, when after the first reading here in the relevant Parliament, we opened up the possibility of the amendment acting because the first reading found that there were a lot of things that were too serious to approach them in the way it was suggested here. And, for these reasons, we can't support this law, and I guess it's not a problem for licensed reformers and sleepers and awake people, so three people decided to wake up before they did.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11296	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. We've had a discussion of ladies and gentlemen exhausted, we've been given an explanation of why a break is sought. Please, no more debates. We're going to a plea. Please, a little patience and tolerance. Who is it, to adopt the bill, who is it, to adopt the bill of law,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11297	He didn't come out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11298	Business, you can have as much as you want. And it doesn't matter, here, the chairman must have patience unlike you, but here we see no problem. We're not taking anybody's word, we're passing an important law. So there wouldn't be any objections.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11299	Mr. Chairman, since it is a very important law for BiH, I do not think we should create such an atmosphere of urgency and anxiety. Not only did the SDP here point to the need for further discussion and improvement of this law. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11300	I beg you, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.Mr Križanović, we have concluded the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11301	I ask you precisely in this direction, there have been suggestions here for this House to reach a conclusion that the time of the amendment is extended, so I suggest that you give that conclusion to the vote before we make a statement on this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11302	Thank you, please, we approach the vote. Who is it for us to accept the Proposal for a Law on the Security and Security Agency of BiH, in the first reading? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Give me the results. So out of the 37 present, 30 voted for, 1 was against, 6 abstentions. I figure we have a majority and an entity majority. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the proposal for a law on the Security Intelligence Agency of BiH was adopted in the first reading. There were several proposals, there were amendments, it was my suggestion that if the proposings were willing to withdraw the amendments to make a statement in the second reading, which would be a strong incentive to what we were talking about these days. I'd like to ask if there's any moods, therefore, if the amendment's proposings are withdrawing amendments? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11303	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have invested two amendments. So, Mr. Felić has tabled one amendment and Mr. Moranjkić has tabled one amendment that kills 49 amendments. So he's invested 49 amendments. My amendments refer to aspects of the law which, I think, if they are accepted, improve the text of the law itself and give the Service what it was given in the original text. And my amendments have been made to those Commission solutions against which the international community was held at the Commission's meeting. So I can finally bring it, it's on one side. On the other hand, I care very much, as well as, of course, all of you here in the O.R. or most of you to get a job done today when this House is under this law, and so 51 please give me five minutes to consider this proposal so that I can inform you of my position.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11304	I thank my colleague, Džaferović, for five minutes. I'd like to ask the other promoters to take a break. Please take a break and let us know if you pull the amendments or not. Please, five minutes, please don't go out of the O.R. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. I'm sorry, the snail didn't bear fruit. Amendment promoters, although I had the impression that we could come, to withdraw the amendment, to get to the law, Mr. Moranjkić voiced his mood, tied him to the position of legislator, also to his counterpart, Džaferović. Džaferović finally announced that he does not want to withdraw the amendments. So there's no statement in the second reading today, but there's another proposal. It is a proposal by Mr Križanović to extend the amendment phase to this law. So, here you go,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11306	Gentlemen, nothing opens, but continues in the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, so please, let's not caricature now. I have the right to do with my amendments what I intend to do and I have done, I have informed you. You've completed this agenda point according to the Rules of Procedure. The law was passed in the first reading. And it's a done deal. Do not now blackmail Parliament here, with some proposals or with those who have tabled amendments, with some proposals that do not comply with the Rules of Procedure. You have the ability to go to another reading, or to feel finished, to decide today, or to consider today's part of the work done, and to discuss it in another reading at the next session. There are no other suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11307	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Please, my colleague Martin Raguž called. Just a second, we're done voting in the first reading. There is no need for me to break the Rules of Procedure, nor do I want to, and everyone's proposal must be the same. We were able to adapt Mr. Križanović's proposal so that we could withdraw the amendments and connect the readings. But if the MP says there are new moments, there are new moments, he wants an additional amendment phase, this House can accept that or refuse. So, don't put MPs in an unequal position and I have no intention of breaking the Rules of Procedure. 52 A colleague of Raguž asked for a word, then Sead Palavrić and Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11308	This is kind of this replica of what Mr. Džaferović said. So here, in the first part of the debate, it has been shown that debates and arguments can redefine the initial positions of even entire clubs to contribute to the adoption of the law. And as a club, that's how we joined. If after that, we say or we have a law in our first reading, now my amendments are going to kill 49 of those that the Commission has worked 24 hours, and then, gentlemen, we're going to look ourselves in the eye and we're going to work on it, but we're going to figure it out. So it was ready for another reading. And for the contribution of this House,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11309	I thank my colleague, Raguž, for the word Seada Palavrić, and Mr Novaković
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11310	I mean, correct the wrong quote of the chairman. Mr. Križanović demanded that the proposal for his conclusion be put to a vote before the law. He did not propose to vote after the vote on the law. Secondly, his proposal does not comply with the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to realise that this item of the agenda is complete, and if anyone considers that there are conditions for the investment of new amendments, and... The Rules of Procedure and when we consider the law in the second reading, we will see whether these amendments meet the terms of the Rules of Procedure. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11311	Thank you, of course I'm running this session. I can make a mistake. I'll never do it on purpose, be safe, but when I put something to the vote, that's why I'm here. You can't say put it before or put it later. All proposals are equal and equal and the chairman shall make sure that the law can be reached. The president's goal today is to get to the law, not to determine the voting order, to create destruction. I respect every MP and fellow member Križanović's proposal, he was very angry with me, at the break, and I said it was for no reason because I kept it quiet. If this had passed, if we had been given the law, unfortunately, we wouldn't have pleaded because they would have put an ad act on it. But since we've returned the beginning of things, I'm sorry to have to respect it, my colleague Novaković answered the floor. 53 I pray, if I may ask my colleagues from the club, don't open my replicas again, I don't want replicas. I don't want to hurt anyone. We were on the trail to get to the law. I'm sorry we're gonna do this in 10 days or 15 days or a month, and we could have done it today. That's all I'm sorry about, but you go ahead. Here you go, Novaković,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11312	Dear Chairman, fellow Members, I just want to say that there is no business possibility of an extension of the phase, of the amendment phase. So she doesn't exist. The other thing is that we here had a consensus with some questions, we showed good will to settle some laws, then we were all for it. So am I, and now if we're all for this attitude, then be him, but if anyone isn't, we can't because then we're breaking the Rules of Procedure. So, the Rules of Procedure are quite clear here. Article 94 clearly provides for some new aspects if the Commission could not have them in mind at that time. And of course we'll decide that then. So I'm absolutely against extending the commission phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11313	Who's next, is there anyone else who'd like to hear from you? He's not answering. I'll put it on, please. We'll have to put in an MP's proposal so that if there's no consensus, please, what we can do, but we have to respect it. So, who is for Mr. Križanović's proposal to extend for new moments the amendment phase of this law? Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, of the 38 present, for 17 versus 19, abstention 1. I konstatuj that Mr. Križanović's proposal has not been received by the majority, there is no need to go to the entity majority. This concludes the seventh. Here's Dr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11314	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to put this motion to the vote which has shown itself in the debate, the motion to put it to the vote, to go to another reading. I'll say right now, given this we'll be going to another reading and we won't support it again, but I think you'll have to take it all the way to the end. Let's get 54 laws today, why get it in 15 days. It's me, I don't support this, but you'd better finish it today than in 15 days. You have an obligation to put it on, no problem at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11315	Ladies and gentlemen, please, I'm asking how there's a mood to go about the amendment in the second reading to get the law, and I'm also up for that variant. I ask you nicely to let Dom know if we're up for it, to make a statement on the amendments in the second reading. Please just be patient, Dr. Lagumdžija is right, if there's a mood for a second reading, we'll have him. Here you go, Mrs. Milićević. Slowly, we will slowly come to a democratic solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11316	Gentlemen, the chairman, me as I recall, and we can also see a stenogram, the proposal was exactly like this. If the amendment's proposings are ready to withdraw the amendments, then we would have declared our second reading. There was a break, and we got the answer that no amendments were withdrawn, so it's not the same proposal anymore, and it's not the same thing. Let's not put some things back.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11317	Please, five minutes break and club presidents, please, we need to get out of this. If there's a chance we can get to the law, I want to take advantage of all the possibilities. If there isn't an easy one I'll announce going second reading. This is not controversial, but Parliament must show its determination to come to the law. Five minutes, club presidents. [[PAUZA]] Let's sit down and get to work. I like the MPs to come in, but it seems they're so tired of staying in the hallway most of all. We took a break, just a little bit please. I have confidence from the club presidents that they're ready for a second reading on this bill. Thank you, please. We'll make a statement now. Are we going to have a second reading debate? Who's in? Here, you don't need a consensus for a second reading. No, it's not at all. It's club presidents. It's not an extended college. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11319	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, so I don't mind if we discuss the law today in the second reading. And I even suggested it in my discussion. My goal is to get us to this law as soon as possible, but today's session, it's going on such an ugly course and one, one, I'd say to the conductor, that simply a smart man can't stand up to everything that's going on and in what way is he trying to run this session. Look, after I asked for a break, so it was pretty clear that if there was no withdrawal of the amendment, we were done today and moving on. We're going with a second reading in about 7, 10 days, so, by the end of this month, at the beginning of the next month when it's our obligation to pass this law. From one time after I gave up, Mr Križanović's proposal to be decided on was back in his life before he had to decide on the first reading, in fact, which should not have been decided at all because the proposal is outside of the Rules of Procedure and then the president of the SDP comes out for a pay phone and says of the occasion next. I'm sorry if I don't say something the way it was said here at the pay phone. We're asking to vote on whether or not we're going to go to another reading, regardless of what we're going to be against and in another reading, and now I have to vote for it. I won't, and because of that, I won't do it, I'll be held back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11320	I thank my colleague Džaferović, I am asking you personally for the right to plead, please, Dr Lagumdžija, it might be good to bring this to an end, if we don't go in replica, I ask you. Here you go. I'd pray, we'll find a solution, just let us go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11321	Mr. Chairman, the improvements to this law, I believe that we all believe that they are possible, especially on the basis of today's debate. We've tried to be constructive the way we've been before. The Rules of Procedure have been broken here. I repeat, Article 94 took 48 hours before we were delivered this all the things we were talking about, the amendments. We didn't get it, and we're not the only ones here, there are still MPs who didn't get this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we didn't get it, or we just got it so we can't respect the Rules of Procedure, and you're over it. All right. I would like to say that we have been prevented from giving an adequate indication according to our amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We've been disabled and it's contrary to the Rules of Procedure. After that, the Rules of Procedure were violated, because the law came here without those people who were sleeping and were supposed to deliver it to us. I didn't say from the occasion of the following, I made it very clear, the suggestions were to make a statement about whether or not we're going to do another reading, we're about to go into another reading, so let's put an end to these troubles that we've made here. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11322	And you will vote against, as you said,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11323	Yeah, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11324	Well, that's why I'm against going to another reading, that's why.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11325	So Mr. Džaferović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11326	So what are you doing here from this Parliament, man?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11327	I'm asking you a little patience, let's hear it for a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11328	So, I made it very clear, I repeat another Mr. Džaferović. I guess my request, to put something to a vote on the Rules of Procedure, is not limited to having to be in favour. I guess you could have learned that as a lawyer by now, and as a Democrats, thank Bog you didn't know that. And that's why I'd like to ask you one more time not to interpret what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11329	Come on, please, here's Džaferović again, I'm asking you to let us deal with the agenda point, if you want to finish this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11330	Mr. Lagumdžija, who is here a lawyer, who is a Democrats, and who is a manipulant, will best show reading a stenogram from today's session. Analyzing your discussions and my discussions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11331	Ladies and gentlemen, shall we, thank you very much, I think, Dr. Lagumdžija, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11332	Mr. Džaferović, from this pay phone, the president of your club or someone on behalf of your club literally told you by one other law, which allows you to go to the amendment later, literally like this, we will be in this House for, and we will wait for you in another House and we will be against it. And that was democratic, that was 57 logical, that was even normal, to you. And it's obvious that time will show what you've done today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11333	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, there is, in my view, so when it's done like this, it's very difficult to have a rational vision. The possibility, if we stand at the point of conversation with the club presidents, that we go to another reading. So, to honour and to submit amendments, to make a statement on amendments, let us make a statement on the law. Is there a way to make a statement now? So, who's in favor of having a law in a second reading? Please don't open the hearing again. If there's a lot of us, we'll go if we don't. Who's against it? Who's being held back? So, of the 39 present, 27 are reserved for, against 9, 3 abstentions. We're going to an entity vote. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? So 16 from the Federation for, 11 from RS for. So the conditions are that we have the law in the second reading. Ladies and gentlemen in the second reading, I have an agreement, actually Mr. Moranjkić said he was withdrawing the amendments. Is there anyone else who can withdraw the amendments? So only Mr. Šefik's amendments to Džaferović and Hazim Felić remain. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening a debate, please welcome Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable members of the Council of Ministers, I only went out to say one business, that Article 94 does not allow amendments to be given 48 hours in time within 48 hours, before the beginning of this Parliament. I would ask the service to say which amendments are and that we are not discussing here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11335	I thank my colleague, Ivo Miri Jović, for asking the service to respond 58
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11336	What are the good times, huh?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11337	Which are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, submitted rather than in good time, give a precise dictionary.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11338	Dear members of the House's College, honourable MPs, within the deadline provided for by the House's Rules of Procedure, have made timely contributions to Mr Šefik Džaferović's amendments, these are two amendments by calling for Article 94(1). It therefore contests the amendments adopted by the Commission and specifically contests amendments 28 and 30. Then Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, since he gave up the amendment, I don't think I need to refer to them especially now. Otherwise there was also an invitation to Article 94 point 1. So it contests all the amendments adopted by the Commission and the next group of amendments, that is to say one amendment to Parliament Hazim Felić for Article 94 point 1. The amendment adopted by the Commission, which is, therefore, amendment VII of the Commission, is again disputed. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11339	But if the amendment has come, that's what we've asked you, not what anyone's contesting.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11340	I said that Mr. Džaferović applied for the amendments in good time, so maybe I dropped it, so I apologize. Mr. Moranjkić directed
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11341	No need Moranjkić has given up
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11342	He gave up, and Hazim Felić filed the amendments yesterday around 2:00 p.m. we got.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11343	And is that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and not yesterday and today, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11344	He did not comply yesterday, the amendment tabled yesterday and did not comply with the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11345	Well, that's the answer he asked you to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11346	Because it wasn't submitted 48 hours before the plenary session. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11347	Thanks to the professional service, you heard so we will declare the amendments of Šefik Džaferović. I'm opening a debate. Is there anyone else who can answer the question? There isn't. I'm closing up. On the occasion of the amendment by Šefik Džaferović. So, if he wants to explain them, if he doesn't want to go to an amendment statement. Yeah, no one's allowed to talk if they want to talk about the amendments. It's no problem, let him take his word for it, I think Mr. Džaferović said what he meant. I'm grateful to him. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who's in favour of accepting amendment number I of Mr. Šefik Džaferović? Who's against that amendment? Who's restrained? So of the 39 present, it was for 11, versus 25, abstention 3. So there is no majority of this amendment by Mr. Džaferović has not been accepted. We move on to the second amendment of Šefik Džaferović. Who's in favour of accepting Amendment number ii of Šefik Džaferović? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So of the 39 present, for it was 12, against 25, abstention 2. I also konstatuj that Mr. Džaferović's second amendment has not been adopted. There are no more amendments, and that's what the amendment phase is, so the second reading is over. The word came from Seada Palavrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11348	Please take a break on behalf of the SDA Club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11349	You got it. A 10-minute break on behalf of the club, before a definitive statement. Here you go. 60 A statement in the second reading on the Security Intelligence Agency Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[PAUZA]] Who's in favor of supporting this law in a second reading? Now, this is already a more cheerful situation for the SDA to come to its senses. I apologize, of course. I'm glad you're passing the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11350	SNSD sees sometimes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11351	Yes, it is, and the SNSD sometimes sees through. Who's against it? Abstained? No, no. Just give me a little patience. It's going well. Ladies and gentlemen, just a minute. Ladies and gentlemen of 39, the vote was 22 against four, abstention two. I apologize 32 for, against 4, abstention 2. I also find that we have most of the entity's majority. I am pleased to find that we have adopted the Security Intelligence Agency Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina in another reading, and thus sent a signal that it is possible to work faster and better. It was nice to keep the atmosphere on other legal projects, but we'll see. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. Thank you to all who have made constructive proposals and who have criticised the chairman, but the most important thing is that we have reached the law. The eighth item of the agenda, Ad.8. The proposal for a law on the importance of public documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first reading of the proposal for this law was sent to lawmakers on 30 October 2003. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 17 November the same year. The Constitutional and Legal Commission shall be responsible. You've also received a report from the committee in charge. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11352	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, although I am a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee during the debate on the Proposal for this Law, I was not present for legitimate reasons, but, of course, not questioning the legality and legitimacy of the report we received, I am taking the opportunity to say several of my opinions in the context of the debate in the first reading on the Proposal for this law. In the first wave, I was thinking about investing some amendments, but I gave up, and I would only like, as the stenogram says, to remind the Constitutional and Legal Commission as the first commission in an attempt to discuss this law, to assess that the mandatory presence of the legislator was not ensured for the first time, so in the second attempt, we were assured, or heard the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission who attended the session explain the bill. I didn't have the pleasure and the opportunity, so here's the thing, I just said a few of my grades. The first thing, given that at this stage of the debate, which is the assessment, is that it is necessary to pass the law and the principles of the law, I would, as far as the first one is concerned, of course, support the assessment that it is necessary, or necessary to pass one law that would settle the issues that are here tried to be governed by this bill. As far as the principle is concerned, I notice several of them, which are also mentioned in the very reasons, which is to address one very important issue of breeding public documents in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area in one period or in the future. From the point of view of the principle, by my understanding of the text of the law, how to put it, which has been delivered by the Council of Ministers of the Basic Proposal, and by this which is enriched by amendments, it seems to me to be not clear next. Three or four categories of public documents this law speaks of. One is, in fact, public documents issued by different authorities, administrations, justice, etc. In the period from 6 April 92 to day x. I say on purpose days x and later I'll go back to that formulation. The second category of public documents was issued before 6 April by the authorities, so the various authorities of the then-SFRJ state, or federal units in its composition of the republic, so the recognition of these documents in the BiH area, then the documents of the states with which BiH, in the meantime, as an internationally recognised state, has not concluded bilateral agreements on the importance of public documents and ultimately documents which, whose purpose is to be used for the exercise of the rights and interests of BiH citizens abroad. For each of these categories, a certain regime is this, so to speak, envisaged, and especially for those whose purpose is abroad where the interests of BiH citizens are very prominent and as we know we have very many citizens of BiH living and working abroad. 62 What is my objection, therefore, to these principles, and which is why I am here to immediately propose, perhaps with a re-emphasis, to colleagues who participated in the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and formed their amendments and delivered the report, so with this respect, that I propose a possible request for an additional report. It remains unclear, at least as I understand this text which is now the bill and text of the Council of Ministers, for which a period when it is especially, when it comes to public documents in the period from 6 April 92, so let me put it this way until the day x to which today, this one, should be recognised. If I understand correctly, one of the amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, it should be the law, or that time limit, to be adopted until this law enters into force. I don't know if, if it was wanted or misunderstood by colleagues, but that would mean actually legalising parallelism, and then here's to say the conclusion of the Dayton Peace Agreement after the General Elections were held when certain authorities, when certain administrative and territorial structures are organisations, legalised, legitimateized, etc. And the extension of that parallelism to say so until the day of entry into force of this law. I will remind you that in the Federation of BiH a law with a similar title was passed, this, another 97 years, when it was actually arranged and, of course, waiting to pass one of these laws at the state level, that when it comes to public documents issued by different authorities, at the time I would use the term temporary administrative arrangements for this opportunity. So, from April 6, 92 to October 14, 1997, why? Because the general elections have already been held among the members, the legality and continuity of the state authorities, including the state authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, entity bodies of both entities have been established both administratively and others, etc. 14.10.1997 had already been completed, I think the municipal elections implemented, so that the legality and legitimacy had been established to say municipal administrations, so that the issue of public documents after that deadline, by my understanding would simply be legitimate if there were, and perhaps, parallel this system has been here a few years from now. Therefore, in my understanding, that principle is not acceptable. He, therefore, was changed through the amendment of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, so that this one, puts the word to the day of entry into force, but he and as such is not acceptable to him, I could of course dispute with the amendment, but I wanted to actually consider in one of this debate what the intention is and what the aim of this law is at all. Is it, I'm sorry I won't be much longer, is the aim of this law and it's one of the important laws that are also a condition for various here's ours to say the integration that we've defined, is the aim of this law to only regulate the validity of public documents in this period of April 92 to some date ahead of that by looking back from today's day, or is it also intended to settle these other issues. As regards the validity of the public documents issued by the present authorities and not specifically necessary, this law strengthens the power, or strengthens the power, because, by law applicable to the administration, procedures, judicial procedures, etc., they are already producing this, product and their legitimacy and their legal power. 63 Therefore, in order not to challenge and not to prolong this debate, I would suggest perhaps, and for this, there is the possibility that this issue could be considered once again within the Commission, to leave a 15-day deadline to the Commission, that is, the Member's position, Article 95, with guidelines that this issue be further investigated and examined by the competent Commission but also by the legislator. On the other hand, this, of course, remains not clear what this critical date is. Is it especially for those of this, public documents issued by me to say to the parallel authorities within the framework of the administrative arrangements that were valid, which is the critical date, he was not treated here at all. It can't be this date from the day of entry into force and that it actually examines what the basic Racio legion of this law is. Is it this period of 92 and x years or is it these two, three things I've been talking about? It seems to me, with due respect for those who have prepared and the law and, of course, the Commission's report, that there is one confusional state, not sufficiently clarified and I would indeed, in my best interest, reaffirming and respecting the efforts made, ask that this, another consideration of this report and, of course, by the rapporteurs be asked to respond to some of these dilemmas in the new report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11353	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Momo Novaković picked up the phone. But please see, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has done its part of the job, sent a report, I regret that the chairman wasn't and I think we would seem precedent if every time a law doesn't like it, we go back to the Commission. That decision can only be made by the House. A colleague, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11354	Dear colleagues, I've been this one, and last time, so on the past law, I've discussed something similar to this law I think. So we're going to support the principles of this law, and the new elements, which Mr. Ćeman is talking about, I don't see any reason why we're extending this phase and I don't see any business opportunities to do it. And of course, if I were to stay at the stand, so let's be clear about what I was thinking, given that we don't have an amendment to this law, so we could go to another reading here today, so I would ask the chairman that he, therefore, suggest that this law, too, after the first reading, if we adopt the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11355	I thank my colleague Novaković, Mr. Ćeman's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11356	My kolega Novaković, I did not call on Article 94, item 3 below (a), but therefore on Article 95(3), considering this question on the principle issue, I re-evaluate 64, with the long respect of the effort that has been made, so that perhaps with some direction, and this has the right to the House, I request a new report. And that guidance among other things may be based on the fact that this aspect that I have pointed to is not sufficiently learned, which does not necessarily mean that the new report will be different, but therefore, I did not refer to Article 94 but to Article 95(3). I think it's really a business possibility and this is just to clarify it, and I'm telling you because, I was really in a dilemma about whether or not I'm investing these amendments, but I may have misjudged my understanding in this House, decided to still take this approach.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11357	I thank my colleague, Ćeman, Mr Belkić, for reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11358	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I also understand in some way these dilemmas Mr. Ćeman had, but I must say that I took part in the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and absolutely do not question this report. But I think it'd be good, we've got a promoter here. I think it would be a good idea if the proponent from the point of view of the concept ever said a word about these amendments, or this Commission report, so that the House can understand what this is all about. As far as we're concerned, we have no intention of stopping the procedure, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11359	I thank my colleague, Belkić, who continues to answer the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it for us to accept the proposal for a law on the importance of public documents in BiH in the first reading? Who's in? Who's against it? No one asked for a word, so please nice, who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. So, from the 38 present, it was 28, versus 6, held four. We're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? So, from Federation 15 to, from RS 11 to. I agree that we adopted the proposal for a law on the importance of public documents in BiH in the first reading. It was a proposal from counterpart Novaković, so it was a proposal from counterpart Novakovič to go to another reading. 65 Please make a statement. Who's in favour of going to another reading in this law? Who's against it? Abstained? So, present of 38, for 20, against 15, abstention 3. So we have most of it. So let's get this law under discussion and in the second reading, there was no amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11360	Just make sure you have the entity majority for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11361	It's entity. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? 10 from the Federation for, 11 from the RS for. We've got most of it. So let's discuss this law in the second reading. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it for us to accept the proposal for a law on the importance of public documents in BiH in the second reading?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11362	He asked you for a word, man.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11363	But we've closed the debate. Come on, please, I won't call the Ministers and they'll say I want the word, they'll get it in a second. Who's against it? Who's being held back? So, of the 38 present, 21 for, 12 against, 5 abstentions. From the Federation who's in favour? 10 from the Federation for. Who's from RS for? 11 So 10 from the Federation, 11 from RS for. I am pleased to find that we have passed the Law on the importance of the BiH amendment. 66 We move to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. The proposal for a law on the conduct of a judicial exam in BiH, the legislator of the law, the Council of Ministers, was sent to MEPs on 12 November 2003. We received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on 16 December 2003, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as the committee responsible, gave its view of this law and sent the Commission's report to MEPs on 13 February this year. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Who's answering for a word? Deputy Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11364	Thank you, I'd like to welcome you all. So, before you is the text of this proposal for a law on the conduct of a judicial exam in BiH. Principles, this law is next. Therefore, to ensure an equal programme of passing a judicial exam in BiH, that is what the Council of Ministers therefore proposed and when proposed, therefore, this principle was managed. So, to be completely content is identical, and the second principle is that the laying is done both in the entity ministries of justice and in the BiH Ministry of Justice. The third principle, therefore, that all exams that are on the same, on the principles of this law are laid down both in entities or at state level, so that all convictions are recognised in the entire territory of BiH. So, to ensure both quality and uniform practice and everything else that this law needs, means that we actually need our judicial system. On this, these are the principles agreed on by this Constitutional and Legal Commission of the Parliamentary House of BiH. The reasons, second, why it is proposed to pass this law are broadly explained here under the proposal for a law on the conduct of a judicial examination. I wouldn't repeat them. We will soon have, therefore, and this situation that we will have, already now we have the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office at BiH level. Activities are now being conducted to be the High Court and Prosecutorial Council at BiH level, however, it is something that is in the future. I'd just like to point out next. So here there are these amendments that have been adopted and that do not touch these principles and improve the text of the law. However, one provision concerning this Commission, to pass a BiH-level judicial exam, is one amendment adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, so it is not actually respected by such a proposal, this proposal does not allow the beach to mean a judicial exam at BiH level, which would be a shame, I believe at this point and actually have some announcements if this 67 law does not mean that, under these pressures, they are planning to do so, we are actually going out here in front of, that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council could require that the jurisdiction of passing the judicial exam be at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. We don't think that would be good. We have domestic bodies that have both tradition and everything else in the adoption of this law, in the implementation of this law, and I would ask that this possibility be seen, therefore, to remain this principle of three commissions. By election, she will be a candidate where anyone wants to lay down, so everything else will actually be leveled by this programme, which will be adopted under this proposal by the BiH Minister of Justice. I must say, in fact, at one point when we proposed this law, we did not go to a variable for the BiH Minister of Justice to adopt a single programme that will apply to entities, but rather to adopt a programme at BiH level, and then the entity ministers then fit into such programmes. However, here is the proposal that has now passed. I personally think that he does not harm this one, that if therefore it is voted in the Parliamentary Assembly that it is not a problem either. So we have a unique program, and this solution, where the program will be subjective to this state, is also not problematic. So here's how Parliament decides. So here we are, I don't think there's gonna be any problem implementing this law. I'd just say about one of these remarks on Article 24. So that's what the Constitutional-Pave Commission has agreed, and I think the Ministry of Justice and the Proposer can stand behind this proposal, which recognises the judicial exam and I think it's correct this one, the amendment adopted by the Constitutional-Pave Commission when it comes to Article 24. Of course, I'm not saying that the other one, the amendments, are not correct, but I'm just warning you of this amendment regarding the Commission's decision to pass a judicial exam at BiH level. In the introduction so much, if there is a need later, I can plead according to certain amendments, but now in this opening and principled debate, therefore, we are not opening these individual questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11365	We thank the Assistant Minister, Deputy Minister, so we have received amendments to ours and the Commission here, and we have received a vision of the Deputy Minister. Although you see when you look at the Council of Ministers Act, then at least ministers would have to sit down and see what suits them what Parliament does or doesn't respond to. There's no way I'm a deputy, and I'm a minister. So I would ask that we all work in accordance with laws that restrict our work, no matter when anyone calls for a word, because I want to be principled and to work in accordance with the Regulation. To represent, you know the Council of Ministers Act when it comes to amendments. So, I can give you a vision, that I agree, the sighting we got. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ćeman, go ahead. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11366	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, as far as this opening part is concerned, as I have said and for the past, really again respecting the responsible colleagues who worked in the Constitutional and Legal Committee and finally the Commission has worked towards the Rules of Procedure and there is nothing disputed about it. They delivered us a report that was quite correct from the point of view of what she had decided in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I have no objection about it, and I want this one out of question. However, I also need to say a few of my views in the context of the debate on the principles and necessity of adoption. We currently have in the BiH area a situation to pass a judicial exam as one of the very important exams for certain categories of calling, i.e. functions that are a condition, and it really makes sense to level the criteria, procedures, etc. And therefore there is no doubt that it is necessary to pass a law at the level of the state that would make these things uniquely arranged. I say uniquely because when I read this text of the law for the first time, I was extremely pleased, because I meant that, in the previous work on the preparation of the bill, that the harmonisation of things and that we will have, unlike today's current situation, that the judicial exam is being passed in another entity. If I'm not mistaken, maybe it's in the Brcko district or it's not, like, in one place. And when I read the law and the concept of laws and principles, I realized the following. One program, one ministry, one commission, etc. But now I see other arguments and, of course, amendments that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has legally, legitimately, adopted away from such a concept. I, as a Member of the Commission or a Member of Parliament, have invested two amendments. In fact, when I was reading the text of the law, concluded that it was actually unifying all this, I came to the conclusion that it seemed wrong on the basis of what I had just heard from the Deputy Minister and based on what the Commission had taken as its position, that there was no need to comply with the entity laws in this area, because this law had fully regulated this issue, rather than that it should actually put this one out of force, and that they would cease to be subjective to entity regulations in this area. I see now that this concept isn't applied here. As for the principle under which this, the judicial exam, or three commissions in BiH, would apply, I don't think it should really be supported as a principle. Why? There are a number of laws that regulate, so to speak, the mobility of professional staff who, above all, are lawyers and others who, this one, can take a judicial exam and run for the functions on which this exam or certain calls and knowledge is equal to that exam, is a condition. If so, and therefore, the movement, freedom of running for many of these, in many of these places, then it is unnecessary for one such exam to predict three different commissions. The only correct solution is then to bring a unique programme at the level of the state, to do so as is foreseen by the Ministry of Justice at the level of the state, one commission....Enough is a number that would have more interrogators, one programme that would cover and commit knowledge please, 69 legislation this, and one and the other entity and state, and not only the specificities of an entity, which could possibly be a problem, etc. So, I think that's why my understanding would at least be supportive of the personal intensities and laws I've seen but without this further explanation and without the need to have three commissions. It is enough for one programme to be laid down within the framework and organised by the BiH Ministry of Justice. That's why I propose after this, so the principles of the law, given the others that it contains, can be supported but I appeal to accept my two amendments that I subsequently made and thus try to defend them in accordance with the relevant one, a member of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11367	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Momčilo Novaković answered the word, so there you go, then tiho Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11368	Ladies and gentlemen, the key principle in this law should be the programme under which this judicial exam is passed. So that's what the legislator actually did in the first place in my name, wanted to say because we had different programs and in the I don't know more committees, we took this judicial exam on a number of levels. This law has succeeded in achieving this key principle, which is that the BiH-level judicial exam is subject to the same programme and that is the most important. For me, it's less important, whether the judicial exam will be laid down by this, at the level of one commission or at the level of three commissions. I don't know, gentlemen, why someone's bothered to get into three commissions, if they're going to take on the exact same program. Does that mean we should have one college and one professor all students to question. Please don't. I am for us at this level to do everything we need to do in every legal project and in this legal project, but let's not build on what's not necessary just because someone or I don't know that's very important either. We have the Deputy Minister's position as far as I understand it, that this first principle has been fulfilled, that the proposaler's intention was different, so to be one commission, but it's also not a problem, so there's more. So that's how I realized it. So that's not the problem. Of course, it would be better if one were in his opinion, but if it weren't a problem, it's important that we have what's a fundamental question, which is the same program and that we get people who put it into place under the same programme and that they can do this job on BiH's entire territory afterwards. That was the key question, and that is why we will support the principles of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11369	I thank my colleague Novaković. Dr. Tihomir Gligorić 70 came forward for the word
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11370	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has accepted the amendments and they have become an integral part of the text of this law. I went out to say that since Mr. Ćeman was the chairman of this committee, and he knows what our practice was before, that I was often reputed as well as others, and that was basically the case, but in this case, since he was absent, we were considering these amendments. We did not give them support and should not make a precedent and discuss all these details in the congregation. I don't argue that as an MP, it says this, but there's something else behind the background that we've talked about very much on the Commission itself, they wouldn't bother the House. Basically, this law, in this way, on these principles, given that it will be a unique programme, that we will have three commissions, in this way we are helping citizens or users of the law to make it easier for them, that they are allowed to lay down in the way that suits them. Why should the one from Tchajnić go to the other end of BiH or vice versa. In this way we have made it possible to decentralisation through committees that will respect the single programme to actually make it easier to pass the judicial exam and thus actually reduce their personal costs, which they certainly have when they pass. We're not gonna make Mr. Munib a traveling circus. I already think it would be a traveling circus, rather than if we humans are ready for decentralisation, do you think there are no professional people in RS or in the Federation at the level of the entity that will do so properly. Even such a fit, although I would like it to happen a little, is better and more qualified at the level of entities than at the level of joint institutions. And that is why I agree with Mr Novaković when he spoke about these principles, the Ministry of Justice also supported these principles and amendments, and I think that this way we can get out of this particular case in a way that we can support the Commission's practical proposal and thus adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11371	I thank Dr. Gligorić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ćeman, for the replica is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11372	I'm sorry, but I have to tell my colleague Gligorić next. I repeat again, indeed, the Commission is constitutionally-supervised, as every other person in this House has the chairman and the first and second deputy. We affirmed the business principle that the Commission is working and when, for a just or not justified reason, the chair of the Commission cannot be present. I could not be present for justified reasons, and I did not question the legality of the Commission's work, but I was right not to be able to defend my amendments and my concept of seeing this issue on the Commission, because I did not attend as an MP, I present my view of these matters to this House. There's nothing else behind this, except for my commitment to understanding these questions the way I've already tried this one, to expose it. It's more rational for me, and I thought and I said, "rejoiced 71" was that in the first wave of the Council of Ministers proposed a law which at least I understood meant rationalization and unification and criteria and procedures for this. Now a little of it has fallen back, but my Bog, that's why we're arguing and we're gonna see how we're finally going to pass this law. Therefore, this, this was my reason for putting these amendments into place, I repeat again, not questioning absolutely the correctness of the Commission's work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and thank Bog that it is so.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11373	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Džaferović Šefik, the vice-president, answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11374	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, I do not dispute the right of the people in this Parliament to have their vision of this, that this matter should be arranged in BiH, but when we look at what we have received in the text of the law and what we have received in the text of the amendment and what we have heard today from the esteemed deputy minister of justice, then at least some questions are asked. And first of all, I'm going to ask my esteemed colleague to answer the following. So, the law when you read it like it's written, Mr. Ćeman is absolutely right. So here comes a program for the state level, a legal exam program. One commission appointed by the State Minister of Justice. Technical services to the Commission, the State Department of Justice, reports from the State Department of Justice, and to the soul records of course technical services, I said, and when this is looked at, it is concluded that in the future, therefore, from the original text of the law as it came from the Council of Ministers in BiH, this valid issue, therefore the passing of the judicial exam, will be arranged by being slow in the State Department of Justice and I say on the basis of both the programme and everything I have already listed as the role of the State Department of Justice. The truth is, to be correct to the advocates of this second vision, it does not say here in the law that on the day of entry into force of this law, certain entity provisions of law governing this area are put out of effect, but are bound by entities to comply with this regulation. So, when you look at this law, you're bound to get this conclusion out of it. Today we have amendments that have completely reversed the concept of the law. And the amendments say so. Amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission to remain a single programme and that is the only thing that remains at the state level, that not even the commission is appointed by the State Justice Minister, but by the entity ministers to name it, then that technical affairs are not done by the State Department of Justice, but by the entity ministries. So, the accounts and all this together that goes on about it. And that the reports are not submitted to the State Minister of Justice, but to the ministers of the entity's justice. 72 When these amendments are incorporated into this law, then I interpret things like this. There are no three commissions in BiH, there are two in entities. There is one programme at the state level, there are two committees that examine one programme, there are two ministries of justice that keep technical records and perform and provide other services as it is called, this commission and there are two ministers who report. I don't see in this bill anywhere in the third commission, so there's no state commission, there's no such thing as this, what's called, there's no State Justice Minister with the role that was given to him in the original law. We now have a statement from the Deputy State Minister of Justice that, that some compromise has been made in the Constitutional and Legal Commission and my question will be. So, what was done in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, is the Council of Ministers behind it? And whether this was the subject of a debate at the Council of Ministers and whether the Council of Ministers remains at its original concept, because what we have today is a change in the concept of law. The second question is, on the basis of which it can be concluded both from the amendments and from the text of the law that we will have three commissions in BiH, which is completely not normal, it is not logical that we have both a state commission and two entity committees that will investigate the same things. Who's going to take the exam at the state, if there is, I don't see that there is, you said there is, and who's going to take the exam with these entities. The only thing that's clear to me is that there will be one program and that everyone in this country will treat that program. So these are my questions that I'd like to ask the answer to, before this one is, as I'm reading. I especially ask to be told whether the Council of Ministers cares about this modified concept. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11375	I thank my colleague Džaferović. The Deputy Minister has come forward for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11376	Well, I'd, uh, I'm glad these questions were asked, so to clarify this situation, I've put them on the stand in those opening statements. So the first question is, what is the concept of the Council of Ministers? So the concept of the Council of Ministers and the text of the Council of Ministers is what this, originally obtained so, without amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, is therefore one thing. The second thing, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Prada, which proposed to the Council of Ministers this text of law, was the opinion that this law should be regulated by this state commission, and in transitional provisions should leave entities with the possibility of two commissions, and to comply with their law, their laws with this law. So here you see from the 73 text of this, this one that you got without any amendments that the Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed. So this is what the Council of Ministers concept is like. So the Council of Ministers doesn't have a business possibility that after sending it to the parliamentary procedure, they're discussing amendments that I'm going to opera say their opinion in person, so don't take this as an official, it's too bad for the Council of Ministers, it's too bad for Parliament that there's no possibility, but it's such a situation that now this one, we're not asking a question. As far as this one goes, three commissions. The truth is, I said this for myself. If you understand me, so in the opening statements, I said that we remained on the Commission in principle and explained ourselves, there was a position on the Constitutional and Legal Commission that there were three committees. However, with the amendment in Articles 6, 7, and 8, this text is essentially the two commissions. That's right and that's what I said, they don't have three have two. So here, this fact itself, these amendments, I do not have the Commission's report, but I have amendments to MP Momčilo Novaković who said that what is said in Amendment II is therefore, that instead of the word "named minister of justice", it replaces the words "named the ministers of entity justice". Again, "the Ministry of Justice" stands "to be published by the entity's justice ministries", which is to Article 7 and to Article 8 behind the word "justice" is added the word "entity". So if we want to do this extra, this law solves what the entity commissions are called, then we can go with these proposals. I said what our basic concept was. To set the law at the level of BiH, the commission and everything else, and to leave the entities with the possibility and still the truth is this, it wasn't, this is one like this, it wasn't solved this situation where the beach is being tested. We thought, in fact, he wouldn't be going in now, if it wasn't for failure, if we weren't discussing it right now, thinking was simply letting every candidate's freedom check in where he wanted to go and get those exams all over the place. But if it should, too, if it should be written in law, then it can, of course, be intervened somewhere by this, in the law of this, in an appropriate place and say that the exam is passed in front of that ministry chosen by the candidate. So to solve this issue, maybe this is to say in a certain way the failure and the Ministry, we accept criticism in that sense, but we meant therefore, by where the candidate will take the right of his choice. So, the same thing that doesn't say where he's going to go to college, we thought it was a man's choice, so we didn't even write this at the commission, but if we had to write it down. It's not a problem. What changes this concept of law, I repeat to be quite clear is these amendments in part of Articles 6, 7 and 8 of this Bill proposal, and we do not have three commissions, and in principle, the commission has accepted, I said to the Commission the same thing, that we have accepted three chaos in principle and that we do not have three commissions in the implementation now. And what I can do as a proposer is, on the Parliamentary Commission, do this. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11377	Thank you, Deputy Minister. He has a replica of Mr. Džaferović. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11378	You see, Mr. Deputy, I'm not really, my criticism isn't addressed to you or the Justice Department or the Council of Ministers. You offered, I could say with some small interventions, a good text of the law and you really misunderstood me if you realized that I was criticizing you. I really didn't. I don't need to. I want to say here, that we are in a parliamentary procedure, so in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, investing amendments, in the way they are invested, and adopting amendments that have been adopted, have done something that is impossible, something that is not applicable. We made a law I don't know what a man would call it, I mean this, it's an amazing thing. And since we're in this situation where we are, then it was better not to pass a law like this, than to pass a law like this. It's painted because no targets have been reached. You can't say, let's choose where a canary exam will take place, as will be chosen when choosing a law school or any other college. You can't for one simple reason, because passing a judicial exam is a state matter. It's state jurisdiction, it's administrative jurisdiction, it's a matter of state functioning, and it's got to know exactly who, where, what can in the state. So that's the problem. And as the Constitutional and Legal Commission has offered us today a law, it is unacceptable for me because everything we have received as a text from the Council of Ministers has been completely distorted, and I will vote against that law, against and when it is, or I can support the principles, but unless the amendments of Mr. Ćeman have been adopted, I will vote against the law in the final text. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11379	I thank my colleague Džaferović. The word came from Novaković, and then Dr Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11380	I called about a little replica. In fact, I really don't understand why this is an amazing law or not famous, or I don't know what kind of expressions I haven't heard here about a law that treats one issue the way most in the Constitutional and Legal Commission thought. I say most of them, because most of them in the Constitutional and Legal Commission decide, even then, most of them decide. We liked her sometimes, sometimes other people or not, but that's the way it is. So I really don't see what the law isn't famous for. So the law is as it is proposed, the law is in practice enforceable, which is very important so the law is in practice enforceable and from that position, it is nothing impossible not heard, not seen so far, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11381	Thank you, colleague Novaković. Dr. Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11382	Dear gentlemen, 75
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11383	I'd like to hear from you a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11384	May I say that a man is truly surprised to hear such a debate. And I'll tell you next. I left the Commission, and I felt very uncomfortable because Mr Belkić was too loud. I felt uncomfortable, but imagine the work of that Commission, I have since the very beginning, therefore, a year and a half already nonstop overvoted. And I never came here to say, please it's unacceptable for me. This is the Constitutional Commission adopted, this is an integral part of the text. What's heard here, it's really surprising. I don't know what the tendencies are that the judicial commissions can't be at entity level. Why? If you involved in this debate, follow the State Administration's reform. Well, the basic principle of state administration reform is the cost principle. Will you send candidates from Novi to Sarajevo to pass a judicial exam and all the possibilities exist in Banja Luka. Or you will send from Trebinj to Banja Luka, and allow them to lie in Sarajevo. And right now, that was the goal of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11385	Well, it's closer to Mostar.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11386	Or Mostar. The second principle, please, please, the second principle of state administration reform is decentralisation which goes against modern principles. So, bring the citizens closer, not move away from the citizens. It's impossible to apply the law because they're formed, because there are two other entity commissions left. So it's absurd. These things you hear, do you think we'll be able to negotiate in some things, and just before we passed one very important law, systemically, reformally, and we stop at things that are actually not relevant to that law and say that state issue. Let's not talk like that. Well, we won't be able to really talk for much longer if we perform like this. So there are three commissions and it's the basic concept that there are three commissions. If it is not clear enough, as possible, I could not really follow the text with amendments and additions, then it should be said that a third commission will be formed at the level of joint institutions, or BiH institutions. So that's the goal. Three commissions, a unique program. Get closer to passing a judicial exam to the citizens. Where will you find better goals than such a law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11387	I thank Dr. Kunić, Mr. Džaferović's replica, please. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11388	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what's not logical about what I've been saying so far and what's causing these reactions, so what's in my discussion that caused these reactions? The law doesn't say anything when these amendments are put in place that there will be three commissions. You take Professor Kunić, so please read, Professor, we are now in a phase when we vote. No more embedding. What's built in, it's built in, and what's not built in, it's not built in, don't think so. I'm just trying to respect the Rules of Procedure of this House and everything called procedure, so to point out some things. So that's one thing. The second thing is, it's not normal and it doesn't make sense that at the state level and at the entity level, there are institutions that will decide the same things. Tell me where it is rightly written and where it can be so that at the level of the state and at the level of the entity there are the same institutions that will decide on the same rights and obligations. Where's that? There may be Professor Kunić here or two commissions or one commission. Please nice, just listen to me please. I didn't say about your discussions that they were absurd, that they were like this, the way you talked about my discussions. Please, the law has come after this, that this matter be governed by the state law, that there is one programme, that there is one commission. The law went that way. This is how I read the law. We have today received, when these amendments are incorporated, one programme, two commissions, an entity commission, which will give us state law, which, apart from this programme to the soul, he is the only one who has his excuse, if all of this is going to be on the entity level as the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as the Constitutional and Legal Commission suggests. And please don't be nice when I interpret the difference between enrolment, or the right to elect students to the Law School, and the jurisdiction of the state's actual jurisdiction to act in certain administrative matters, to throw it away with sniveling and mockery. Of course, I said the state thing, so it would be more understandable here for all of us. So it's an administrative matter that's in the jurisdiction of the state, or state authorities, and that's the right definition, and that's a full difference or a complete difference from what's called the right of choice in law school. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11389	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Mr. Ćeman answered his word. Is there anyone else who might have answered for the discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11390	I'm sorry I answered the word really, but I have to do this, however correct, and I have to do this for all of you who listen to this, say the following. Professor Kunić and I are members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. The Rules of Procedure accurately and clearly prescribes how not only that works, but also other committees. There is no obligation to agree and vote 77 by consensus on any issue within the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and when we have a good discussion of the arguments, against arguments to bring the matter to an end, we must ultimately and vote, as is the case in this House. I didn't once, of course, listen to the arguments of others, give the opportunity to say what they think. This time I really want to, this is the third time that I should say, to respect my right, that now as an MP who was not in a position to be on the committee responsible, regardless of what I am chairing the Commission, but as a member of that Commission and as a member of this Parliament, I should say my opinion. And secondly, this is not the first case of mine, that one of the members of the Commission, regardless of what property, whether as chairman or vice president, or member, is actually, that he has invested amendments to those who have not passed on the Constitutional Commission. I thought it was a normal, procedural move behind the belief to defend the right thing. I'm convinced I'm defending the right thing, and if that goes away, so is you, and not just me here. Therefore, no one here has sinned in the Rules of Procedure, nor has the Commission which has delivered a correct report in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which I respect, but I want to respect my right to attack even such an MP, the solutions adopted by the Commission, because this was not the first time and there is no obligation to make decisions or views on that Commission, although ideally the team would be best if possible. But it's not possible and it should be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11391	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Dr. Lagumdžija Zlatko called to say the words. She says Sead knows by my face that Zlatko talks, I smile, but I laugh whenever anyone answers, and yes, I don't hate to tell you when Zlatko talks. To be fair, I don't hate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11392	Dear colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen, the chairman, I think this is an extremely important law and it is good that we have come to the debate at the House of Representatives on one of these laws. We've heard the intensity of this law, and it's less familiar to us, and no one slows it down. What we all agree is that this law, even if it was a law in an attempt, is to make one big move, whether it is a version with or without amendments, which is that this corresponding member, or the 5th programme that defines this, is to be brought to an appropriate solution by the BiH Minister of Justice, and that is not to be disputed either by those who have made amendments. Those who say whether, just the programme, yet the program is a big deal, that we can now talk that there is a full consensus here that the programme should be at BiH level and I think it's a huge shift that we don't have to convince ourselves and that we all see that it's mostly rational. And if nothing, that we have to do just that European orientation that we swear so often, because we will have to comply with the relevant European standards of 80,000 pages of European standards that we have a programme of this kind in line with the relevant 78 standards that apply in the EU and the EU and make us have a programme at the state level and not at entity level. And that's a big shift. However, I'm afraid today's debate has put us back a little bit. Or that I'm not objectively here alone, which is the best way to get out of this. In the end, I will propose that, on the basis of this debate today, this return to the Council of Ministers once again and come to us with a consistent proposal, which the Council of Ministers will at least clarify between themselves. You can't go with the idea, so good if, if, by this law, if one of them understood and they figured out well in the first version of this law that the Council of Ministers sent, not to be faked, there is one commission, a state commission. That's where it stands. It's defined by Article 6. The Justice Committee, that one state, just a little, one state commission and a member, the amendments turn this one state into two entities. This one state turns into the two entity amendments that you have made here, by amendment to Article 7 because the Ministry of Justice, translates into entity ministries, and then, consistently, when you see Amendment V, you will see that you have done the same thing. Why am I saying all this? Because I think that the text of the law, as has already been said here many times, is very well done assuming that we know what we want with it, that is, it is very very good, and unfortunately the concept is not clear when these two amendments and the text of the law with amendments and the text of the law without amendments are two concepts of the realisation of this law. At least that's clear to us, and we don't need to convince ourselves of that. I really think it's normal that a Trebin man doesn't have to go to Sarajevo to pass a state exam. I honestly mean it. I think it's even less normal for a Trebinje man to go to Banja Luka to pass a state exam. If anything else, there was always a man from Trebinj who went to be treated in Mostar when things were normal at least in the first stage, so what he didn't get rid of there went to Sarajevo, etc. And then from Sarajevo he went to Belgrade, and then he went to seven brothers to do a charity thing, after all, it was not normal to go from Trebinj to such professional things in Banja Luka and it should be respected. Dale, you don't have to come from Trebinj to Sarajevo. I really think, since we're talking about principles and principles, I really think it's time to go back to the law that we've all adopted here, which is the Law on indirect taxation that says that we have at BiH level one finance ministry, or an appropriate office dealing with indirect taxation, we have four regional offices, which means tomorrow we're going to have, like, 4 regional committees to pass state exams, if we're going to give ourselves something like that. It's one concept that when we talk about principles, why don't we talk about it. That's what I mean reformically in the right way. And that's why my proposal is to have the Council of Ministers come out here in one serious elaborate. And even to create an expert meeting, to which members of Parliament would be invited, to date one, we had a seminar to which things were far less important than this. We have one concept, and that's the concept that you have a state program, and in entities you have two entity commissions. You have another option to have a state program with a distribution to say so to regional commissions and you have the possibility to have a state programme and a state commission and an entity commission. And for those 79 who remember it, who are a little older than me, it's like going to take anatomy in Pristina because it's simpler there. I mean, you're going to go lay where it's easier for you. I don't think we should do that. Not because there is no Pristina here, but because that principle is not good. So people have to have an opportunity to take off without discrimination. And one more thing that made me come forward, since we're talking about the tweezers, is why I suggest that the Council of Ministers trace this story of indirect taxation and this way that it's organized, to see how we can apply this here, this model to be discussed. And I would also ask you, no matter what opportunity, which model you choose, article 6, which defines the commission that consists of the president and the four members on the list of interrogators, then you have the president of the Committee of 2 deputies and 18 interrogators, then the members of the committee are taken from that pool of interrogators. Especially this amendment that Mr. Novaković gave this, which he advocates, I apologize, which came from the Commission, in which we practically create entity commissions. I'm afraid I don't have a whole set of legal items that talk about the constitutionality, equality of the people in the entire territory of BiH, and especially if it comes to entity commissions, then respect the principle of equality, the consistency of all three peoples in the entire territory of BiH. In other words, this law, if we're doing something at an entity level, at a lower level, has to respect and give at least as a law to define the obligation, equality in a way that I wouldn't go in right now, but it's like the principle here avoided. I accept that here it's said that everything is done on a scale, which is good and competent for people. But on this principle, if we were to adopt a law in the form in which Mr. Novaković is, in fact, advocating these amendments, we could come into a situation where in the Federation, the Commission would be one national in RS to be also one national, which, by accepting the amendments as the gentleman, as the Commission has observed here, if we accept that, is something that can be a coincidence of such a law. I'm not saying that it will be either, or I don't think anyone would have enough political insanity, so I'm saying that I don't believe that anyone will have enough political insanity for that kind of thing, but we as Parliament are obliged to prevent it. Finally, one perhaps technical, technical remark, Amendment VI goes towards the fact that, in Article 24, a practical, basic intensities of Article 24, it was that the professor of the university and the judge of the Constitutional Court of the domain defined in Article 4 or the area to which the state examination applies, that these people as prominent experts in their jurisdiction, the judges of the Constitutional Court, that they do not have to take the state exam. And that intensity...pardon jurisprudence, that's fine. However, here the amendment said, if I understood correctly, that instead of referring to graduate lawyers who for at least 5 years perform the duties of a regular or extraordinary professor of law at universities to change in doctors and masters of legal science. Doctors, come on and help Bog. So here the doctors of legal science who are professors at universities are relieved only of those who are doctors of legal science. Now, that's still loose, so I can also master legal science. That would be an opportunity to replace this medical science master with specialization. I doubt anyone would want to go to treatment with such people but they're 80 very good careers to help you in scientific research. They're not good to treat you, so neither are these people. So I think that on the technical level of amendment number VI is a little bit of this problem. And in line with this, which I've just said, in order not to go on, I have a lot of suggestions and remarks, but since we're in the first debate and theprinciples, I would suggest that we conclude that the Council of Ministers, to return one of these debates and to come up with one of the options of what it means, and that, on the basis of that, we go along and normally give some time so that this doesn't go back needlessly.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11393	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. A kolegica, Milićević, has a word and would thus bring the debate to an end. I'm asking you to, and I'm sorry I didn't see you, Sead. Please, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11394	Mr. Chairman, this all seems to me to be what it would be if it were. So there's no way the law can go back to the Council of Ministers now because it doesn't allow us to do the Rules of Procedure. We're in the process. Please put the law to the vote, and we'll have another reading. If a change is deemed to have occurred, an amendment may be made to that effect. So let's vote on this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11395	I thank my colleague Milićević. They say what I mean in the end. Dr. Lagumdžija isn't, replica. No, there's no need, I mean okay. Seada Palavrić, no need for replica, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11396	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that if, and I am well today, I have listened well to today's debate that the principles of this law are after the work of the Constitutional Commission and how they are thrown. And, apart from the joint programme, actually the same programme at the state level, there really is nothing that could grace this law and that could be a reason for us today to accept the principles, even if the principles of this law. I therefore call on Article 95(3) of the Rules of Procedure of our House, according to which the House may ask the Commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines within 15 days. I, therefore, ask the chairman, that, before putting the vote on the principle law, put this proposal to the House to declare, according to Article 95, that according to Article 95, the Constitutional and Legal Commission should propose a new report, taking into account the basic text of the proposings, the proposed amendments, today's debate and that this new report should reflect what the proposer intended. Otherwise, we have no reason to say that this law has been passed and that this has been removed from the agenda, on the contrary. Thank you very much. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11397	Thank you, Seada Palavrić. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, from what we could have kept quiet today, and here if we do, we must understand that the debate is closed and that we must plead. If we put this bill in the first reading, to the vote, the law won't pass. At least from what we see in clubs. And that wouldn't be good. So, the aim of Parliament is to adopt a good law and I am not far from what this is about, which is what Mrs Palavrić was looking for, and that is what Dr Lagumdžija was talking about. So I think it would be good if we made a deal, that the Commission, together with the Council of Ministers, would sit down with the Council of Ministers, the Secretary-General, would try simply to keep these things in mind, let's call new moments in mind, to bring these things together and come to Parliament to adopt. If anyone insists, then we must make a statement to vote. The law won't be passed, we'll have a situation to do it again. So, today if the law falls, we come back and send an ugly message. We're going back to the beginning and we're going to get back to this phase we're talking about. If there is a possibility that the law can be adopted in the first reading, I am in favour of adopting it. But if that possibility does not exist, we better leave the law alive in principle, to give the Chanic Commission and the Resolute Ministry and the Council of Ministers to offer us something that can be the common principle of this Parliament. It's not good if we vote today and the law doesn't pass. So we'll go back to the beginning. He asked for the word Momčilo Novaković, please. Please __________: Unable to refuse [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Well, yeah, we'll find the best solution. If there's a chance of passing the law, I'm in. If we can't ask for a solution, the law will be passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11399	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, I'd really like to see what the guidelines are, except that someone likes the law or doesn't like it. Which is someone for or against. Someone here has to say what the Commission's guidelines are. Whether or not the Commission has done well, it needs to be given guidance that it is doing well. I think the Commission has done well, done business, discussed the amendments it has had ahead of it and brought what it has brought. The direction we're talking about. Well, we can apply any law to article 95 and say that we have some new guidelines. I have new guidelines because I don't like them. I don't like the fact that we've amended the law proposed by the Council of Ministers. Why are we taking part in the debate if we cannot change what the 82 Ministers' Council has proposed. Why do we need a debate, then let's adopt it on the Council of Ministers, so we don't spend our money here for nothing. I ask that in the first one, first put the bill to the vote, because we held a hearing today for 3-4 hours in vain in the first reading. If there's any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I'm asking that the breach of the Rules of Procedure be said here which one is it. Where we hurt that, where we hurt the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and then after that, let's see these conclusions. We can't suggest conclusions about what a law likes or doesn't like, and we don't know if it'll pass or not. I don't know if it'll go away until we get our hands up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11400	I thank my colleague Novaković. A lot of things are given to see if a man wants to see. If he doesn't want to see it, then he can try and get the law... I'm asking you now. If the law falls in the first reading, if it falls. From the discussion of the MPs' clubs, I see it's definitely his destiny. It's not, please, it's not a goal, so I'd like there to be a mood for the law to pass and I believe if there's an extra effort to make, and we convince each other, so we can convince that it's not the goal of cheating on anyone, nor should it be. A judicial exam is an important thing. So one is a program and that's important. Whether it's going to be in two centers, three or five, the thing is that people see what's the most rational principle. I don't mind that. So now the question is, if this law falls, then the Council of Ministers sits down again, working, sends it to the Commission. But we can save it if we estimate that the law cannot pass to create those 15 days. Well, it's not too late for us, here's if our colleagues think we should drop the law now, it's not too late to do it in 10 or 15 days without exhausting all the mechanisms. And that's why I'd like us to try to regain our trust in each other. I don't see anybody's goal here to fool anyone when it comes to the justice system. So please, and I don't think it's possible for anyone here to do anything that's not good for anyone who lives in Bosnia and Herzegovina in any entity. I think this proposal in 15 days, Mr. Novakovuć, I'm asking you, so if there's a chance to pass, I'm putting it to the vote. But let's take it now, for me it doesn't matter who votes against, and the law falls. You know that often we from Republika Srpska were brought in, so we spoke, if you see these will not be the law. I don't care if that picture is going to show the Federation today. But there's no law. And that's why I want us to have one new, if possible, if it isn't a being as most say. So please let us try for 15 days, we're not losing anything. Don't let us outsmart ourselves. We vote. I know what fate is if we vote. Five minutes break. I'm giving you five minutes off, we've closed the debate. Thank you very much. Don't let the MPs out, we won't drag them in in half an hour. Stay in the O.R. please. 83 This break did bear fruit after all. [[PAUZA]] It seems to me that we have found a good, compromise solution that is on the verge of these good discussions. I appreciate that everyone said well that these, therefore, that the House, therefore, is to ask the competent commission and the Council of Ministers to sit together and make up a common view within 15 days of this bill. Who's up for this proposal? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? - 1 abstention I find therefore that we have taken a new 15 days for the Commission, together with the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry, to try simply to build this on one programme and to have three commissions, and not to say that there are three, and in the law that they have two. Thank you very much. Moving to the 10th point of the Ad.10 agenda. Proposal for a law establishing a power transmission company in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first reading of the bill is the Council of Ministers. It was sent to Members on 5 December 2003. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 16 December. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications submitted a report on 13 February. Please, we have now two laws that are tied to each other. Let's try first reading effectively to end these laws so that we don't exhaust ourselves with different suggestions and don't go back to the beginning again. Here, I'd like to ask you, so I'm opening a debate on the draft law establishing a power transmission company in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have a report from the commission. Momčilo Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11401	Dear colleagues, here I will honor the presidency's suggestion that we really don't spend much on this law in the first reading, so that I can't help but warn myself about the powers of an independent member as a key principle, not a key principle, but as one of the principles that I think this law really takes away what we want to achieve, so to get one law on the one hand, we get a company, and on the other hand we get a domestic company that will have, that is, where we will have our natural resources. 84 Unfortunately, we did not get that through this law, given the authority of an uncertain member, but since I have submitted amendments to it, then I will discuss this more in the amendment phase, not bothering this home today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11402	I thank my colleague Novaković. I think everyone has the right to regular and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to defend their amendments and that is where I support them. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ah, Jovanović, here you go. I thought we'd figured it out, but here you go. We have a company and a company. He's right, Momo.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11403	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I've tried several places where I've been in a position to talk about these two laws and I'm afraid that might be a problem. In fact, if we're talking about principles and based on some debate I've been through so far, the point is that the problem is demarcation. So between the power transmission company and the power distribution. What can happen? In this division, we can get into a situation where maybe some basic tool built by the power supply,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11404	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11405	Yeah, yeah. So that it can move to the level of electrotransmission, and given the Law on Privatisation and Investment of Voucher in Electrodistributive Enterprises, there may be a change of ownership relationship. So between that part of state capital and the part of capital invested by the vouchers. It means the voucher part of the capital. So it could simply mean that someone comes into the situation to sue means that this change, but now the question is, I guess that's, that's not very percentage, maybe, I don't know 1, 2%, but it means someone can say now, to sue, to say I've invested the vouchers there, it's gone to another level now and it can be a problem. So I kind of want to warn you that there's a problem. Another problem is what Mr. Novaković said about the powers of an independent board member. So it can also be that, I think that an independent member has too much authority and it seems to me in one member and it says that the board of directors can transfer its powers to some expert commissions or commissions, somehow this one doesn't make sense to me now that the occupancy board, assuming it's an expert body, now that it's transferring its powers to someone else. I think that, to say the least, since I'm talking about principles, I think saying that can be a problem in adoption and law. Thank you. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11406	I thank my colleague Jovanović for his suggestion. I think it'll be taken care of. There are experienced parties here when it comes to basic assets. They won't let it, they're pulling out the basics in time so this is a good thing to take care of. Mr. Gligorić answered for the word. I am my dear colleague, Seada Palavrić, I often forget her, but not on purpose, but because she is closer to me than the others. Well, that's when you have a far-sighted president, so he sees Dr. Lagumdžija right away and you're angry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11407	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the principles of the Law establishing a power transmission company in BiH. What I'm going to say about these principles is identical to the proposal for a law on the establishment of an independent transmission system operator in BiH, so when it comes to the next item of the agenda, I don't think I'm coming to appreciate your time and your time, but it's practically the same, because these are literally the ones who wrote these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11408	Is that what it is?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11409	I'll stick to principles only. Article 1 states that the law is based on existing international practice and applicable EU directives, etc. But what I'm going to say next has nothing to do with the standards that are in democratic countries at all. I am now talking about an independent member who has such powers that he can suspend by his decisions the decisions of the Management Board of Shareholders of the Assembly and the Assembly of Shareholders. I believe that this should have really been arranged differently with the fact that a stranger should be exclusively that independent member. I believe that the Office of the High Representative should not be incorporated into the law either, because it represents a long-term solution, and with this presence as much as we are able to take responsibility for ourselves and strengthen institutions in BiH, because no one will admit you to the EU under the protectorate, in this case there is no need to give such jurisdiction practically to the OHR, where in this law and the next law is, in fact, the supreme arbitration officer in many matters decides instead of BiH institutions. The Chairman of the Management Board is just one form and an independent member is actually a key person. I already said it must be a stranger, that it cannot be a citizen not only from BiH, but from the former Yugoslavia. After a while, a BiH citizen can also be elected. 86 Discussive and discreet rights that this law gives to some people, and you know discreetly that it can always be misused, and in BiH it is generally abused. Next, here in the possibility of transfer of funds, it is clearly and precisely said that I cannot transfer, sell or otherwise pawn, etc. Your assets at entity level are one amongst yourselves, but there's no telling if we can sell that to a stranger. Is it a coincidence or is it deliberately omitted? Then, an independent member, I said already who is not responding to the Hope Committee and the Assembly of Shareholders, in special cases, it is defined, but we also have such a situation that when an independent member makes his decisions, they are final, they are exclusive, they are binding. And that no other legal remedy can be used on such a kind of decision by that independent member or stranger. Then, if it happens here in part on the principle of arbitration and once again, the High Representative, and of course he decides and his is finally and binding. But the problem is, it is an independent member who, for his business, for all the decisions he makes, cannot be held administratively slow. There can't be a single procedure in this country. So this man rises above the law in this country. Jurisdiction, etc. does not apply absolutely to that one x citizen x stranger in this country. And it's precedent, it's not standard, and that's why I'd like to hear from the promoter whether it's in line with the standards they're referring to in this introductory part of this law. And the culmination of everything I'm talking about as an independent member, that during my duties, an independent member will not be held liable, sued for any act carried out within his jurisdiction. I believe that this law as well as this next item on the agenda is not standards and should have been dealt with in another way. It could have been that independent member in the Management Board, if it were not possible to reach a decision, that his vote would be decisive in some cases and that he was flexible and flexible in re-emergences that we have in other countries as well to reach a position where that man's position is strengthened because of a transitional period that is necessary and we know what we are in BiH to hunt, so perhaps it is necessary. But in this way you so boldly order in this law that you cannot plead in one country and do not respect the institutions of that country and the laws of that country, this is precedent and has gone much further than this was the Law on indirect taxation where we had the strength to fix a lot of things in the amendment section. Unfortunately, I'm saying this obviously only seems because of my conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11410	I thank Dr. Gligorić. Please, just one explanation. So even to this law as for everyone else, it was an opportunity to submit to the amendment. No, I respect the story, but I respect the amendments and I simply respect the way people vote. I'm sorry, of course I didn't do it on purpose. Minister 87 Doko answered, and once again I apologize to the ministers and members of the Council of Ministers for having the advantage whenever they report, please. It wasn't on purpose until before the previous debater came forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11411	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable representatives, ladies and gentlemen, you have two drafts of the Law establishing a portable company and an independent system operator. These two laws are a condition for the establishment of institutions. The first institution is a portable company and the second is an independent system operator that is not really a new institution because practically the ZKC that has been in existence for 5 years, which has been working to grow into NOS. The formation of a transmission company and NOS are preconditions for the reform of the electricity market sector as well as for the formation of an internal, internal, regional and then integration into the European electricity market. The reform is fully in line with the Athens Memorandum, European directives, the accession process and the Energy Charter. The laws are based on the State Law adopted in April 2002, under the name of the Transfer of Regulator Act and an independent operator of the BiH system. The law was prepared by the consulting house of Pjer Sartr in cooperation with domestic experts and in the coordination and financial support of JUSEID. The activities on these laws were launched a year and a half ago, and the deadlines according to the international community that we took over expired on 30.06 last year, the end of last year, then the question arises whether, at all, the commitments we made will be carried out. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry took part in the final phase when problems grew to such an extent that they could no longer overcome them. And for this very reason, we called a meeting, so we organised a meeting on 15.10.2003 at the Ministry of Foreign Trade of Economic Relations, and there were resolution ministers, director-general and electricity industry with experts and representatives of the international community. The key issues at the meeting were precisely the points of separation between transmission and production. The questions have been delegated to all three power plants and we have appreciated the importance of adopting these laws at the meeting reached agreement or compromise. The price of the compromise was that some views had to change. The key question is anywhere, so in that technical and professional sense to make that point where the production is divided and where the transmission company starts, because precisely the consequence of these laws will be that the current three power plants operating as an independent vertical system with their markets will have to combine or practically transfer part of their transmission capacities to that transmission company. The problems were of a technical nature, but we overcame them and we reached a compromise that precisely this point of separation would be as proposed by the three electro-priveds, the consultative house, the international community, if we can say so, showed a high degree of understanding and accepted those remarks and incorporated these changes into the draft of this law. 88 The next question was also, a question concerning the point of separation this time now between the transmission company and the distribution. It's about power lines, four hundred kilowatts of power lines are not controversial, so he's in a portable company, 220 kilowatts of power lines are also in the transmission company. There's a question, what to do with a 110 kilowatt power line. We had to take a principled position, so that we couldn't appreciate the exceptions that could possibly justify whether, the reasons why and parts of the 110 kilowatt power line would enter the distribution and parts of the transmission company. The compromise was again achieved in a way that the 110 kilowatt power line is part of the property that will be transferred to the transmission company and that later only in those justified cases where we really have difficulties or we will have in implementing these laws, that these are parts of the 110 kilowatt power line can also be part of the distribution network. The jurisdiction of an independent member was also the subject of these meetings and we were just pointing to what was important. What an independent member's role is. So, what does he decide? In this proposal of the law, it is clear and precisely formulated that it decides only on those issues when transferring part of property or ownership from such existing electricity businesses to a transmission company. So, just in these issues, the time left for electricity to do that part of the job, basically means that an independent member if they did, would not have any role and would not have had these powers provided for by this law, is 60 days. If they do not find ways and find opportunities or consensus to do the job during that period, we must have some certainty that we will respect the obligations that are therefore foreseen, this law. And that's exactly the function of an independent member. So he's a security and temporary member. He's not someone who's above the law, someone who's got powers that will take longer and powers that will not be limited. They are clearly precise and have just been adopted to ensure the implementation of these laws, because our goal is to reform this electricity market, not to halt this reform. So that's the role of an independent member. We have time that power companies can use to do their part of the job and basically leave that independent member out of work. So they have a chance to do that. When it comes to NOS property. And there we had conversations and different views on who should be the owner of NOS and who it is that's bringing property into therefore a portable company and an independent system operator. Entities are owned by the Dayton Agreement. The prime ministers signed a document agreeing that entities are the owners. We in the ministry appreciated that it should be a state, but with the goal of reaching a compromise again, we gave up, of course, that proposal, because we appreciated that it was some critical mass or most of it has another point of view. And here's what we've done, and so we've passed a bill that's now in front of you. So one consensus was reached at the meeting and no new questions were raised. So everything that was disputed at that expert level, at ministry level, was agreed. All the new questions that are asked will, of course, require time to consider them. We are ready and of which we will at the Ministry time for consultations and for all information. We would like to stress that the amendment should take care of what effect these amendments have. I would like to take immediate advantage of the opportunity to say that amendments have been proposed to the Committee on Transport and Communications and to the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly, of which 12 amendments are fully acceptable for the Ministry or Council of Ministers, and they do not disturb the essence of the proposed laws. It is true that two amendments, when proposed to this extent, will cause problems that we need to answer some questions. First of all, it's an independent member we've been talking about, and it's also the headquarters of an independent system operator. I will briefly say that the law passed two years ago, therefore, the Law on Regulatory and Transfer Company is a defined headquarters in Sarajevo. Unfortunately, after that, I can say that the Parliamentary Assembly has adopted the amendment, which has moved the Derk regulatory body to Tuzlo. That's my opinion. Furthermore, I'm opening one process. Now it's proposed that the transmission company be in Banja Luka. I will explain why I think it is... after that we have the amendment that the headquarters and the Independent System Operator in Mostar and for the consequence we have, therefore, that the three bodies that need to play the key role of regulation of the transmission market are dislocated and the question arises how they will function. In addition, the problem at the headquarters of the Independent System Operator is because the independent system operator is practically already formed, as I said was the Zeks, who has its headquarters in Sarajevo, which has its own infrastructure. It is not only human, it is both technical and poses major problems, primarily financial, when it comes to moving the headquarters of an independent system operator. The issue and delays in the process of implementing these reforms are raised, as the issue is also current. We are already far behind when we compare all countries in the region, and we have an extremely good position to take advantage of the comparative advantages in this sector that we have in BiH. I'm not going to be here to provide data on the amounts, because they are, they're, they're estimates, and these estimates are very different. They range from zero modest amounts of 100,000 to several million or even a few dozen million marks. I am not qualified to assess the values, but I can say for sure that these measures will affect the slowdown of this project for at least six to twelve months. The question of human resources is raised, what if the staff employed in the ZEKS do not want to or will not remain in a working relationship if there is a change of head office. I would like to point out once again that the principle in determining the seat is something that would be good if we agreed before, even giving the law into parliamentary procedure and where we can agree that some seats can and should be dislocated from Sarajevo, but there are also some institutions and organisations that really do not justify any relocation. Especially when combined with other institutions that have to do a large part of the work together, because I note that we are far behind. So much and thank you. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11412	I would like to thank Minister dok for further explanations. Seada Palavrić, Pa Novaković, and Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11413	Dear colleagues and colleagues, and I'll say what I say applies to both laws, so I don't repeat myself when the next item of the agenda is. Namely, I remind you of the Commission's report on Transport and Communications of 11 February, which says that the Commission unanimously supported the principles of the law, therefore, as proposed by the Council of Ministers. Afterwards, the Commission adopted a series of amendments and explained that part of the proposed amendments had been accepted by the applicant and, if it did not state which they were and a part of the Commission by majority vote. Due to the fact that the amendments adopted have become an integral part of the text and, in my opinion, the SDA Club considers such a text and that it changes the principles on which the law is based when made by the Council of Ministers. In addition, such a text is contrary to Annex 9 of the Dayton Agreement, and this agreement, I will remind the regulators, is an agreement on the establishment of public enterprises in BiH, under which the model must also form these two entities. In order not to delay this debate, I repeat, we are not prepared to support this report by the Commission and the amendments adopted in this way. I suggest the same principle as in the previous case. Therefore, to re-apply Article 95(3) and to ask the Commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines within 15 days, in fact up to 15 days in the Rules of Procedure it is said. So he can be shorter. We've heard from the Minister himself about some segments of this law, one of these two laws. So, I ask you not to put ourselves in a situation where the law completely fails, because, indeed, with such amendments, which are an integral part of the text, we cannot accept the principles of either of these two laws to be in line with aneks IX of the dejtonski Agreement and come before us again as a report from the Commission to continue the phase in which we are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11414	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. The word is Mr. Novaković, and then Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11415	Dear colleagues, I didn't mean to discuss it the way I'm going to discuss it now, since I came forward just before the discussion of my distinguished colleague Palavrić, but in fact I thought I'd thank Mr Gligorić for explaining my amendments, and now I have to say something else. 91 It seems to me that the last conclusion that we adopted here introduces a new practice into this parliament, which is whenever someone does not like the work of the commission, then we will call on Article 95, and we will return it to the Commission, the Council of Ministers, the Proposer, and here on behalf of the promoter were four people from the international community then that day. So we'll keep returning until we get the kind of law someone likes or doesn't like. I am for that kind of work, but then we have to wonder when we're going to pass the laws. How long does it take to capture them? Since we don't have a lot of time for some laws, I'm not talking about these laws, but I'm talking about laws at all, then it's impossible to put this kind of practice, this kind of thing into practice. Dear gentlemen, I am here to discuss this, if we find that something is not, that we have missed something. If that's something the commission missed, if the proposer came out here in the meantime, he wrote us a memo and told us that we did something on the Commission, which completely destroyed the law, etc. I am saying, here are the new guidelines. What are the new guidelines, gentlemen? New guidelines that no one likes the law. The promoter accepted the amendments, and one club doesn't like the amendment, and these are new guidelines, let's do Article 95, and every time we do so. We're not ready to work on that principle. We have respected the proposal of the chairman of the previous law, taking into account both the importance and the law and the very constructive debate at today's session, but we are not prepared to follow such a proposal in every law and therefore ask the chairman to put this law to the vote after the debate is held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11416	I thank my colleague Novaković. Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović answered the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11417	I would like to thank the chair, honourable members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, and I have just proposed that we conduct a joint review on this law, as it concerns the entire reform package in el. The energy sector has already had such discussions, so we're going to exhaust the good part. I will remind you that the Parlamentary Assembly of BiH passed a law two or three years ago concerning overall reforms in the el. the state-level energy sector together with the entity-level law package, which clearly defines the competences of the state, i.e. state institutions and future institutions - companies, independent operators, etc. at national level and production, i.e. distribution, etc. as regards organisational forms of government, and in that sense, I think it would be good for all those who propose possible changes, as could be seen from the content and identify the contents of some amendments, to read the whole of BiH's legislation at different levels of government, since it all makes up one whole of the reform in el. the energy sector. I also find it particularly important to remind you of the international obligations that BiH has undertaken by signing the Memorandum in Athens on the formation, perhaps especially to highlight BiH's special role in the regional market for el. The energy of the Southeast European region and we are already quite in the late reforms in this area, which we are likely to pay sometime in a future 92 economic position, given that we are the only country with the potential to export el. energy in the region of Southeast Europe. In that sense, of course, by supporting the original proposal which came from the Council of Ministers and which was elaborated by Minister Doko here for a pay phone, I would appeal to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially the College to find an appropriate form of business, I do not understand that many amendments that have gone through the commission phases may sometimes, out of ignorance or ignorance of the entire picture of the energy sector, be an integral part of the right path that we are on, in a way and are obliged and that we all intend to go towards positive reforms in this area, a very, very important area in BiH. I would like to particularly apostrophe the NOS headquarters, the Independent System Operator, or the future institution in this area, which already exists today as a common electricity coordination centre for the shortened ZEKC, which exists in Sarajevo and which has its own technique and its people, etc. Therefore, any dislocating of any ZECC to any other location from the existing location should take into account, inter alia, the cost of that. I would particularly like to appeal to the technical part, or to one calculation, and I would like to suggest that, however, they think a little bit, respecting perhaps the need for many institutions to be dislocated in BiH. I am not sure firstly that this could be done technically, secondly that it could be done without a high price and, thirdly, that it could be done without consulting all those who financially supported the formation and reform of ZECC, first of all I mean foreign donors. Furthermore, what I find particularly important in the proposals that make up the whole of this reform package, to warn this parliament, is not only about the reform of the electricity sector. Article 9. Company law, the establishment of an el. transfer company. Energy in BiH and Article 10. The law on an independent system operator bears a subtitle of state and entity, which I consider really superfluous, not only in this area but in any area, I think that the co-operation of the attractive institutions and lower organisational forms of state, especially when something of particular national importance and interest of the general interest of BiH is to refer to one member of a law to the obligation of the co-operation of state institutions and entities to me, in fact, to the fact that in the Transition Act, the establishment of the Transfer Company even says that the governments of the entity and the expensive will cooperate, even in the order of the government of the state and entities, will cooperate, but this is less, this is more of a suggestion, which seems to me to be excessive. What I find particularly important is Article 10. Company Act and Article 11. The law on an independent operator and that is what I want to warn this parliament about, and it concerns a precedent in the area of property within BiH, i.e. property management within BiH. According to article 10, owners, initial owners of the Federation Company with Alipašin's address, are likely the Federation and RS government with the address of Vuk Karadžić in Banja Luka. So, our entities become shareholders, i.e. co-owners, or shareholders of a state-owned company, so in that sense I suggest that we all consider the repercussions of such a solution. First with a question, of course, whether it exists anywhere in the world, that lower organisational forms of government within a more expensive one are the owners of a state-owned company or 93 co-owners of an attractive company. I have carefully served Minister Dokui I know this is the result of the compromise, but I fear many have missed, exactly what the minister pointed out, which is that entity prime ministers have committed themselves to being shareholders. I just want to remind you that this signature exists somewhere for a few months, maybe a year, and that today the State Parliament is discussing the state company. Furthermore, what repercusions are in terms of the relationship of the one with the expensive. Is this, meaning the institutionalisation of entity-dosing work of state-owned institutions of the state-owned company etc. and what kind of repercusion it may have for a possible change in the company's ownership structure, which is more than I would like to remind you that in Article 10 of the Company only states that the initial owners of the Federation and RS are in Article 11. The law on an independent operator in paragraph 2 of this Article, with the exception of, of course, the ownership of NOS, of the Federation and the RS, states that the ownership of an independent operator is inadmissible and that the actions will not be issued to the owners, and that owners will use their ownership rights through the primary committee. This attitude 2 is not with the Company, and I want to warn you of all the repercussions we're going to meet, not in the el. the sector rather than in all reform roads, possibly new institutions, companies, in general, with all, perhaps potential problems and open issues in terms of state property, or the structure of valorisation and, possibly, a change in ownership structure within BiH. In this regard, I would particularly like to warn of the repercussions of Articles 10 and 11 by warning that this is the result of compromise. Therefore, after a fairly devalued reform in one sector, with solutions that do not exist anywhere in the world, with amendments that we could see, which, unfortunately, have become an integral part of the proposal of this law, further devalue one of the key areas with which BiH has the benefits of competence, i.e. future advantages to build its position not only in the region of Eastern Europe, but in Europe as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11418	Thank you, Dr. President. Hadžiahmetović. Dr. Sead Avdić answered the word. I'd like to ask you to slowly bring the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11419	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want my conscience to be calm when we adopt these laws. In fact, according to the Dayton Agreement, if we return to the back step, it is said that unique companies such as BiH railways will be formed, such as the BiH Elektroprivreda, etc. But since then, the concept has partly given up and we are going to form certain companies, and this law foresees the formation of a single company just to transmit an el. Energy. The objective question is raised, taking into account the re-cutting law that we have adopted on the production, transmission and regulator of the el. energy, a few months ago, is a real question of how this system will function in a unique way. How will these two subsystems be combined? How the relationship between the production of els will be established. Energy and this transmission system el. Energies? What's a non-production transfer worth? Is 94 so Miloše? What it's worth in the first place, which means you're asking an objective question, this is a blood stream of every charm. It must act as a single system and in this context the location of the operator is more a technical issue and less a political issue for people. It should be managed by energy flows in this BiH state. Is that possible, from where and how it can be managed? Where is the equipment located and where can the equipment be located? How much funds it takes to transfer these equipment, etc. So we can also make political decisions, but without, simply financial consequences, objectively per BiH state. So, I support the adoption of this law, it's not disputed, it's the first, unique transmission company. energy, but objectively people with these laws that we've discussed should have gotten one concept at least on one page of the concept of restructuring el. The energy system in BiH, let's see how it works, which is the functionality, reliability of this system, etc. and whether this system is focused on the flows of privatisation, which simply affect the adoption of such legal solutions. So these are all the problems we're facing. So, my one intensities, Mr. Chairman, if it is possible until the next session until the second reading to get the concept of not a project, not a document, but a concept on one page of paper, simply setting up a restructuring el. The energy system in BiH, which will show integrity, unity and the ability to manage such a system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11420	I thank Dr. Avdić. Martin Raguž came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11421	I thank the chairman. Here, I think my dates were time-consuming, really short, and now I'm gonna try to make it happen, I'd say just two things. First of all, I think what we have today is a really big shift as we know how it's been fragmented, I'd say dispersed el. The energy system in BiH through three electricity industries and these are significant steps. They should be welcomed and, of course, they should be critically monitored for all aspects of this process and also legal solutions, but I consider this as an evolutionary process in which technology will unite and function this very important issue and the next steps. But, please, I can accept one vision of the concept to get as soon as possible to have all aspects. I had to answer because several respected representatives spoke about the headquarters of the Independent System Operator and I here, indeed, and unfortunately from the minister did not get any valid argument that this headquarters could not be in Mostar. This is the 20th century, and we will no longer manage the paths of scribe pigeons, but through technologies that ensure information exchange and governance that can be globally not only within Bosnia and Herzegovina, and no more that argument. If you have any other arguments, let me know. Don't, really. I think Mostar deserved one chance, if we're creating a state to say that this city is also in this auction and that the contribution is to establish an independent state-owned company and an independent system operator, because it has both energy and all other potentials. What's odd is that we're losing state and this whole system? I think we're building up, because we should be giving these other ends and places a chance to contribute to the creation of the state and its functionality. Thank you. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11422	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. Who's on the phone? Mrs. Sopta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11423	The esteemed presidency, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Minister, I would refer to Mr. Raguž's discussion, not only, I would like to say that Mostar deserves one chance, not only have I not gained the belief that there is no valid reason not to be dislocated to the NOS in Mostar, but, in fact, I have tried and asked for the opinion of people who understand. I am an economist and I don't understand myself so much in the electricity industry and I have sought the opinion of people who are close to it and who work in electricity and who are close to events and who were ultimately in progress and these talks that took place in the phase of making this law. I, in principle, did not say, but once again speak for this speaker, comment on all these laws that come to us with an argument to work for two years – three years, a year and a half, and the dry members of 40-50 members of the law come before us. We don't all have the continuity of working in Parliament. I think the one who prepares the law must make one brief analysis, the current state, explain the law, the course of law making if it was done for a year and a half with all their deviations, the observations as it went and even gave assumptions, or hints at what followed after this. We're not all experts from every area and we need to know what it means after this regulation at all levels. So I'm saying that this law for me, for me, this law is not well prepared, and I said it on the committee where the gentlemen of the commission were. The only law that I, like, am speaking again as the youngest MP with an internship in Parliament, because I really didn't work in Parliament, nor did I have much contact with Parliament, but the only law that came to me prepared properly is the Defence Act. On the side of how anyone likes it and what is what is inside, but it is prepared in quality with one analysis of the current situation, with one analysis of the course of production and with one assumption of what it will do to make more changes and I expect and I think that our initiative should go in this direction that laws come to us so prepared, so that we can properly bring our own judgment about them, because we here, however, we bring every court within the clubs, but every court. I received assurance from those people that there were no technical or financial, no administrative obstacles for NOS to be dislocated to Mostar. I was so convinced, and all of your consultations that were held were not about the seat. There was no debate about the seat. Now I'm saying, I'm letting a little bit of that confused even that number when it's said, when we got that letter where it's said between $3 million and $15 million to cost dislocating. I remember well that Derk was told to cost 4 million marks, so it's said, but we're convinced here, and it cost about 40-50 thousand marks, how many four offices are equipped. What I'm saying is that I reject those accusations that the Commission is on the surface, and the Commission has discussed this as well. We had people from the commission before us. I allow that we may not be the best of quality and we may have to, but that the Commission has not made the effort and done what is right and that, if this comes back soon to change our mind, I have not gained confidence either here or gained it in the course of the Commission's work in 96 talks with the members of the commission who have worked on it. I even got that Mostar is both geographical and energy-efficient has a good position to dislocation NOS in Mostar, that the proximity of the Hydropower Plant Chapljina that works on a reversible principle is quite good to cover some imbalances and I believe that there are valid arguments for the location for Mostar. I don't accept the same thing that the people of ZECK won't go to Mostar. Well, the people of my 130km are not Mostar across the world, and in what Mr. Raguž said in today's time of communication, I don't think it's any limit or distance at all. As for all these other amendments, the people from the committee who were present and from the ministry accepted and did not see, I see that even colleagues, here I am now taking the opportunity to say that colleagues have also invested amendments on these amendments and I see no reason, if the promoter also accepted them and the commission that worked has accepted that we are now returning to the initial position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11424	I thank Mrs. Sopta for her word. Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović blames the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11425	It's called a false quote in the Rules of Procedure, and I don't know how, but I have a need to explain something and remind you. The Derk State Commission has been formed but has not yet found the premises, i.e. in the phase of the appointment of the members of the Commission of the first three members. We have approached the amendments of members, i.e. some of the members of the Derk, or the Commission. In the meantime, the parliament accepted amendments to the law, i.e. the Derk headquarters. So Derk here in Sarajevo didn't even have a seat anywhere. He hasn't even had a complete commission yet, and it hasn't been done since Derk was eliminated, because he's never even been located in Sarajevo. He practically just started his activities in Tuzla and I don't think of correcting the wrong allegation, it's just a business name, but more to mention that Derk unlike NOS, which exists from an independent system operator that exists today as a ZEKC and is based in Energoinvest here in Sarajevo, and Derk had neither its headquarters in Sarajevo nor its dislocating cost him. That's one thing. And secondly, I suggest, I agree, perhaps the minister here has not heard valid arguments that the headquarters of an independent operator may not be moved, but let us hear valid arguments to be moved to Mostar, with one note, we can consult each and every one of you equally, but if one of you has not had the opportunity to visit and see what ZECC means. It's not just people who make him. At least people are the problem of Sarajevo – Mostar is not far, but I suggest that if the entire House of Representatives should visit ZEKCU and see that the expert team makes a calculation of what it means to dislocate that coordination centre. I speak here more as an economist, or what it means or how much it will cost us, possibly moving it. If it's just a matter of policy for some of these institutions to be based and in Mostar, then let's put the whole package on the table and see what and how it can possibly be done in structure, taking care of those entity institutions, which are very important in the entire energy system package, especially those related to the production of el. Energy. We have areas that are very important from the position el. Energy, but it is not a matter of an independent operator or the headquarters of the 97 Commission of the state, but perhaps of some other regulatory institutions, which is linked to the el. Energy, but it's on the second level of government organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11426	I thank Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović. Is there anyone else who can get back to you? Ivo Miro Jović. I think it's the last debater.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11427	I will be very brief, probably now I could certainly list the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović the advantages of Mostar in this, and I am not informed professionally or scientifically about the transmission of el. energy, but that's probably the attitude towards that end of thinking from the big city road. I'd just like to remind you, I think we're talking about the founding law today. I'd like to remind you of that word. Founding something, and that's why there's no room to argue that something already exists. We're in a position to establish something. If that's not the case, then we don't need this law. I do, perhaps banally, simply, but it seems very logical here today we're saying that we're going to start something at the state level, let's start it and be the seat in Mostar.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11428	Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović, and Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11429	I really have to tell my colleague Jović something he may not have known. We're from different parts, but I'm from Mostar. Therefore, my father towards that end, you cannot attribute it to me. That's one thing. Secondly, it is true that this is a law on the establishment of an independent system operator. In the entire power sector transformation system, this ZECC is transformed into an independent system operator and that is the law. So far, we have not had the Derk, or the State Regulatory Agency, or the Commission for El. Energy, we didn't even have a portable company, but it was something that performed that function, which will be performed by an independent system operator we had, like all countries had. Therefore, it is a new institution, called an independent system operator, and in fact from an existing ZECC properly independent system operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11430	I thank Dr. Hadžiahmetović. Are there any more reported for discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11431	Let me just say some observations as a member of the Commission. Before the Commission and the session, we had an invitation to the Holiday Inn where, just now, international institutions organised a meeting, in connection with, I would say, the transformation of the Elektroprivreda, which was invited by a number of MPs or MPs of this Parliament. We have to say and to point out that we had some negativity because it's said that this Parliament is challenging something, so we explained the last time, but the essential thing that was said then, it's said that in fact here is the time that will play a major role in this whole thing, or if we catch time and if we get the time to realize this project, then we will also get those funds that, unfortunately, we haven't yet withdrawn from those funds for Power 1 or Power 2. Another thing I would like to say is that the Commission has been working together and I must stress that in the debates that we have had here, almost ten amendments were accepted, that only the amendment on the seat was one debate in which most votes, in fact, accepted that amendment and the reason I came out to say it was the following. You remember when there was poetry about the Derk issue, you know that we did one lobbying, but it wasn't lobbying that we wanted to obstruct, it was because we thought the Derk as an institution was three men, four or six tables and one five offices. At that time, we were told that it would cost to cross from Sarajevo to Tuzlo between 3 million and 4 million marks. So once you fool us, or once we cheat, then we question other things, where now objectively what Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović said is a question that personally led me to a dilemma around the seat of this NOS in Mostar. Representatives of the international community and the professional people who were here said that the transfer because there is already a ZEKC, which deals with these matters, and NOS should take over these functions will cost about $15m. Mrs. Ruža Sopta came out with data that she got from experts who deal with these things that cost about 100,000 marks, so it costs again. It's not in four or six tables, four men, etc. And I'm after this because it's been adopted, because it's the Commission's position and I can't accept it as a member of the Commission, and I've asked the experts of the electricity industry in Tuzla who are dealing with these things and they've really told me it's more than that amount that's been said $15 million. I have to say that I hesitated here because these are the funds that someone has to pass on and I think that this proposal that has been made here in this sense is discriminatory for the reason that Mr Džaferović has given amendments to the amendments within the deadline, which, absolutely, deny all 12 or all of the 10 amendments that our commission has adopted and which seems to me to be incorrect because he accepted the amendment, I would say eight. Two of them are questionable and I therefore believe that the proposal that was here was to give a specific task that we will formulate that once again, let's say both the Ministry and the Commission and the international institutions, or international people, I would say the people who are working on this project are still meeting and within 15 days come out definitely with some proposal here that could be done. Why do I say that? I would ask that all those who at this point are to vote or, here's the minister to say I don't mind saying, what if they really carry the misery of 15 million and who's going to bear it or if we realize it won't really cost 100,000 of what they've been telling us. I'm talking about one piece of information I'd like to have. I speak like a technical face. It's about that, as a technical person, who binam could once again answer that, I'm not talking about the 99 costs of people who are going to cross there, if someone else is going to come, but I'd like to get information really what's called a transfer, now I'm talking about Zeks in Mostar in NOS, here's where we put that proposal as a commission. I therefore believe that you as chairman and the two of you try to find this solution, which we would once again get an answer to this question, with the fact that I also believe that the amendments Mr. Džaferović made should only refer to a number of amendments, because, however, the promoter accepted that instead of the director's name is the management, these are the technical things she accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11432	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. Miloš Jovanović. I'm asking you not to go in without the replicas we can do by half the night if I wanted to make a contribution to the replicas by dawn we wouldn't part. Here, all the time I've been trying to figure out what the solution is.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11433	I don't like to answer twice, but allow me as chairman of this committee, we've really worked, it seems to me about six or seven hours, we've been in this room right here. What my colleagues have been saying, I have to say my opinion that I've gotten the impression, so it seems to me, and the minister is rightly disputed were, let's say, these two amendments around the headquarters of an independent system operator and the jurisdiction of this independent board member. I would personally like to, so they couldn't convince me to prove to me that the transmission, so seats, the transmission of an independent system operator, would cost so much. What Mrs. Hadžiahmetović was saying, I'd really like to have this argument, so it's a joint electrical coordination center, that's to say the abbreviations, it's a command hall where they have some instruments. Now, let me say, and I'm a little familiar with the tattoo, believe me, I can't imagine you would pass it on, and there's something like that in Mostar and Banja Luka. So I can't accept that it could cost that much. So that's one room, and what we heard back then is that ZEDC is a tenant in the Energoinvesta building. So, if you had to rebuild or build a new building or lease, and they're tenants in that building, and it's said that there's already some building in Mostar that could, in fact, accommodate the taop equipment and manage and command that system. So I, at the very least, would like to go and look at what it is in Energoinvest and what it looks like and how much it cost to transfer to Mostar and if someone convinces me it's $15 million, believe me, and I wouldn't vote for this amendment, as frankly. But I don't think it's that much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11434	I thank my colleague Jovanović. There are no more applications for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the discussion, I'm going to try to find a solution and say a few sentences. I don't invite anyone to the line, I won't mention anyone, but I'll say, of course, how I feel about this. 100 I would like to say that the committee of the House of Peoples also adopted a large number of amendments and that after the adoption of that number of amendments, before our committee sat down, there were various suggestions on the side that it was not good to define the law. It came to me from different sources, and I didn't want to get involved in the work of the commission of this or that home. Now we've got the commission's report and various side suggestions. What is important for us MPs to separate what is professional from political. Someone's got the strength to do it, someone doesn't. Often I do not have the strength to see what is professional from what is political, and as it is good to do decentralisation I agree, as it is not good and to lead politics all from Sarajevo and it will produce the negative deviations of those people who think that there is a logic to be something in Sarajevo, as I think there is in Banja Luka and Mostar, without denying, of course the need to create new institutions in these conditions Mostar to get the right place as well as Banja Luka gets the right place and Sarajevo deserves the right place both Tuzla and Zenica, but it is usually about these three regional centres and they will, well, unfortunately give God that all cities and municipalities are at that level of development. I guess we understand each other. Someone has the conditions of a certain municipality should build only conditions for it to be the headquarters of state institutions. What's important here right now, so we have a proposing that's the Council of Ministers. We have two texts that two committees adopted in a different text, assuming that today we adopt in the first or second reading as suggested by the Commission. That's different from what the House adopted. Can we take a look around, I know what the Rules of Procedure is like, taking care of the objective need not to have this Mostar, we'll all be willing to be Mostar. I don't see anyone today who's against Mostar. Why would they be? So, that these two members who are controversial, who are slow proposing that the two committees two at home, means, I speak in vain. I may not have guessed I'm getting out of the Rules of Procedure a little bit, but I'm looking to keep the law alive, let alone the great effort that the Commission has made. So, the commission adopted I don't know how many amendments the minister says are discriminatory and he knows why he says those two are discriminatory. Now can we get the strength to say these eight that are not a problem for the proposer, they're not a problem for any of us. So there's that. I'm afraid, then, that the only way out is to vote on the law. I wanted to leave the law alive to see if there was any way we could get something out of it, but I see from the SDA they're hard on the point that the law is going to go through today. So we're going to a plea. We've closed the debate on the law. Who's to accept the draft law establishing an el company. Energy in BiH in first reading? Who's in? We've closed the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11435	Wait a minute, Nikola, there's a woman's word, a business intervention. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11436	Šefik, now I'm asking you as a second, as a friend, as a vice president, me when you were chairing, I wasn't involved. I'm asking you to help me with this job. This is a very difficult job, I'm reading the day to follow you all and I'm trying to find a way out of the law, and this is my best intention. You don't need you next to me here. I'm Seadi's best friend and Zlatko and Momčilo and I'm all the same believe me, I have no reason. She'll dobići Sead's word, but when I close the debate, we'll go to the vote. I was looking for a way out. You don't agree with the exit. There's only one chance we can come forward. I regret knowing in advance what the solution is. Here you go, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11437	Mr. Chairman, I, I really want to talk calmly. Let's understand it once or we will or we won't understand it. If I propose that we apply Article 3rd position in 95, then that means that according to the Rules of Procedure, the proposal is put to a vote before the proposal for a vote on the principles of the law. Because if the voter before the principles, then my proposal becomes pointless and it wasn't just my proposal, it was similarly discussed and suggested by Mrs Hadžiahmetović and some colleagues and I'm just asking you in the same direction, in a similar direction you were discussing when you proposed for two commissions to meet again. So, I'm just asking you to apply the Rules of Procedure to plead on my proposal, if we fall, we vote on the principles of law okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11438	I'll put the motion to a vote. I wanted to come up with a proposal that's on the trail, as far as I'm concerned, but since we're not going... Who is to accept Seade Palavrić's proposal to apply Article 95(3)? Who's in? Rules of Procedure shall be applied literally. Who's against it? Who's being held back? So, of the 36 present 20 for – against 14 – abstention 2, we are going to the ethnic statement. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? From Federation 19 of RS One, we're going for a match. We have the right to agree within the time limit. There's still time to get along. So, it remains this point of alignment. You'll be notified in time. 102 Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. The proposal for a law establishing an independent transmission system operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina seems to me that we have covered the debate with this. If there's anyone to answer, I have to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11439	Seada's the same proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11440	Well, she knows Sead or you can put her in first grade to learn. One call me when anyone's on behalf of the party.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11441	Nikola, don't... stuff like that. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11442	I will really leave the session and have the Šefik sit down and chair the session and it will be my last follow-up in this House, for the sake of courtesy and my dignity. There's nothing Parliament will lose if I sit there and you choose someone you can do what you want. So, any suggestions for this agenda point? Sead Palavrić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11443	As the chairman has well noted, however, we have also held a debate on this law and I ask that we conclude in a way that we also apply Article 95(3) of the Law. So, we know and that is, that the Commission builds up its position.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11444	Thank you. Any new suggestions? There isn't. We're going to a plea. Who is it to accept Seada Palavrić's proposal, related to point 10? Who's against it? Abstained? So, of the 36 present for 18 – versus 15 – abstention 3. We're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? - 103 So no entity consent. The same fate as the law under point 10 of the alignment within three days and you will be informed at the next session. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We're going to the 12th point. Ad.12. The appointment of the Ombudsman for BiH Human Rights You are the Members of the Members of the BiH presidency to appoint Professor Dr. Vitomir Popović. You got it on the tables. Last night we agreed that this would be a part of the agenda. We're opening a debate on the presidency's proposal. You know we've chosen three ombudsmen, that Mrs. Savić Snežana has resigned. I don't need to remind you that only from the order of the Serbian people is this place not filled and it seems to me that the time has come for us to fill the Office of the ombudsman so that we can work in full composition. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Dr Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11445	Mr. Chairman, I said that we didn't get this for one simple reason why I didn't think that what we got on the table during the session, that we should be treated as something, on which basis the House of Representatives will make a decision to determine candidates, or confirm, which will confirm what the Presidency has already done. I don't want to, absolutely nothing right now at this point to say about the candidate who's been proposed here, so what we could see and hear, see in some media, read in some media is, something that shouldn't be the basis for our debate on this. And that's why it doesn't occur to me that I'm pulling it now as an argument, but it would be normal for us to get gray – a biography, a résumé with his professional references and all those who need to go behind the man who's elected to the ombudsman's office and then someone, because this is a solemn act, in the name of the promoter, tells us who's the man and that we're talking about that too, that if we should and in this way, everyone I don't say is golden now, because otherwise I'm going to talk about the man and we're not going to go far.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11446	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. I agree that the Presidency must have had a more serious approach that should have delivered the biography, but I just want to remind you a month or two ago that we so chose three state ombudsmans, where there were no proposings and that they were just names and I agree that we should have... Momčilo Novaković answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11447	I would like to confirm Mr Lagumdžija's position that the choice of a Serbian, or an Ombudsman from the order of the Serb people is a solemn act. If it wasn't from the order of the other two 104 nations, then it's time to be a Serb people, because it seems that the choice of someone from the Serb people here really should be a solemn act. Since this is very rarely happening to us without great problems, I suggest that this solemn act be declared today and I hope that the statement will be in the spirit of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11448	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I am concluding the debate and I am going to declare the appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights. Who is it to confirm the appointment of Mr. Vitomir Popović as an Ombudsman in the Office of the State Ombudsman. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Ladies and gentlemen of the 36 in attendance was 19 – against it was 7 – abstentioned 10. So it takes two-thirds of those who have joined the vote. We got two-thirds. I find that Dr. Vitomir Popović has been elected state Ombudsman solemnly. This is where the SDA hesitated, because Tihić announced he wouldn't, but it seems solemnly... turned into a solemn one. We're going to the 13th point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11449	The SDA was as restrained as Tihić was in the presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11450	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Ad.13. The election of members of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in place is vacant, related to the post of Dr Hasan Muratović You know that the mandate of Hasan Muratović ceased on 1 February 2004 because of his resignation. Mr Muratović was a member and head of the Parliamentary Assembly delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We have discussed this subject at the College and the proposal is to place in the delegation, therefore, to take Dr Elmir Jahić. Any other suggestions? There are no other suggestions. We're closing the debate. Who is it that Elmir Jahić is a member of the delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? Who's against it? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? So, of the 36 present for 29 – against no one – glare 6. I konstatovati Elmir Jahić to be a member of the Parliamentary delegation in the Council of Europe. 105 Moving to the 14th point of the agenda, that's Ad. 14. This is information about the state of play with the measures to support the development of the car industry please, and I apologize, we move on to the 14th point of the agenda, a little tiredness makes its Ad.14. Report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Law Department for the period 1.6 to 31.12.2003, according to Article 18. The Law on the Defence, the Advocate's Office reports on its work, the phenomena and problems observed on the application of international agreements and laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other regulations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of importance for the exercise of the mandate. You received this report on the work of Bosnian and Herzegovina's defenders for the period 1.6 to 31.12.2003. I have the honour and pleasure to say that the Ombudsman is sitting here today and that he is present at the session, but since I quickly moved on to the next point, I hope that this is the first report we adopt and that we will very quickly support this report, so we will adopt the Attorney General's report and therefore create conditions to move on to the next point if someone doesn't have anything special against or to point out something about this report. Is there anyone to answer for? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of accepting the D.A.'s report? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? - 1 I find that, with one vote, we have accepted the Ombudsman's report for the period from 1.6. to 31.12.2003. This is thanks to my esteemed colleague Miletić, the lawyer and I thank him for a good report that received the maximum support of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to the 15th point of the Ad.15 agenda. Information from the Council of Ministers on the state of play with measures to support the development of the car industry You know that this point is today included at the request of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, whom we have also simply supported. Did the Service notify the Council of Ministers? Yes, she did. I'm sorry we don't have anyone from the Council of Ministers here right now. We can break at this point that continues with this point at the next session. I don't know. Do we have another choice? 106 Here, since the promoter is Dr. Lagumdžija, please. You can have that part, too. Dr. Lagumdžija, go ahead. I agree. I thought this might be a solution. Ali. Don't take too many assignments to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11451	Since it's a solemn session and it's a solemn mood with congratulations on this number of adopted capital laws, appointments, reports and all, there's no reason not to complete the expedition. Namely, I don't want to repeat what I said by explaining this point of the agenda. Just to say that a few days ago, the public could see, the one who looked even at the electronic media in our country was the defence minister of the Federal Republic of Germany and in a conversation with the chairmanship of Mr. Dragan Čović, among other things, the chairman of the presidency gave a statement that really encouraged me when he said he would not allow bureaucratic obstructions in some bureaucratic apparatus.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11452	I ask Mr. Moranjkić not to seduce the public prosecutor. Here you go, Dr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11453	I mean, the ceremony obviously started a lot. So, I would like to say that the chairman of the Presidency as a man acting as a collective head of state to one of the leading people of the German government, the Minister of Defence told our public, in front of the German public that it would not be allowed to use bureaucratic obstructions and any inconclusive action of officials as it was then said, I am paraphrasing to allow one project such as the fols vaginan performance on the Bosnian Herzegovic market, based on which nearly 200 hundred were exported last year, to be precise about 185 million KM related to this project, that it would not be allowed to be such a big thing for this country, and I believe for those who want to help us break up. I would therefore suggest that the Parliamentary Assembly today conclude and send one conclusion to the Council of Ministers to remove all obstacles in accordance with the powers they have and in accordance with earlier practice in order to support the development of the automotive industry and the continuation of the project already under way, in order to create assumptions that other similar car manufacturers who wish to bring and call in such a way and
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11454	Not just cars. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11455	Not just cars, but others. As part of the agenda, I too, Mr Raguž, have put on the automotive industry, and we can go to others and have one piece of information delivered to us at the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly about how this was resolved, how it was resolved, while at the same time in charge of the Council of Ministers to appear before the Parliamentary Assembly within a maximum period of 3 months with the Customs Tariff Act, which is certainly on the table in order for this system to be resolved. So it is now done in accordance with the decisions previously made and that the Parliamentary Assembly is calling on the Council of Ministers to extend that decision and to pass a law that will systematically resolve this in no later than 3 months. I think it would be an active relationship between Parliament and the call and the Council of Ministers and all of us to cultivate a culture of dialogue in a different way than this. And I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate the chairman on this number of laws today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11456	Thank you very much. I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Who's in favor of adopting this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11457	Azra needs a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11458	Is it a word or, and before adopting a conclusion. I'm sorry. I thought we could accept this because this is a very good conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11459	Maybe there's even better.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11460	We cannot accept this conclusion for the simple reason why I would be inclined to accept it if it were to be the Parliamentary Assembly next week. If next week's House of Representatives gets information from the Council of Ministers on what was done to get rid of this. But I'm afraid the next House of Representatives session may be in one 15-20, maybe a month, and by then things may radically change. In that sense, I would, of course, support the content of my fellow Lagumdžija's proposal. 108 I would suggest that we maybe oblige the Council of Ministers to try to find a solution on the line within 7 days or 10 days, because I know what time means and every day when there is a particular problem, that within 7 or 10 days we may try to find a solution on the line maybe those solutions that have existed so far. Unless the Council of Ministers does so, Parliament, or the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, shall act in an appropriate manner at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11461	I thank Dr Azra Hadćiahmetović. Here's everything Zlatko said in 10 days. I think we can give it to the Council of Ministers. Who's up for it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11462	Although it's Gold's proposal I'll vote for. He wouldn't vote for my proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-24-0.u11463	Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been working very hard. Thank you all for your constructive suggestions. There is no anger, if there is little spark, it is desirable in Parliament. The session was finished at 17.50.
