ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13365	I am opening the 39th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. At the session, as usual, our regular guests are invited, and representatives of international organisations as well as NGOs who monitor the work of the House. I welcome all of you together, therefore distinguished representatives, honored guests, members of the Council of Ministers. Due to points 13 and 14, representatives of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the BiH Official List, were also invited to be present during the discussion of their materials. I warmly welcome all present once again. According to the service report, I find that there are currently 29 MPs present and that we have a quorum for full decision-making. For the time being, Mr. Sead Avdić, Mr. Abdulah Nakaš, Mr. Mirko Blagojević, part of the HDZ Representatives Club is late and will arrive at the session at any moment. The seat has a quorum, so we can work hard and decide. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to review and adopt the agenda of this session, I agreed in consultation with the club heads, and at the request of the UNHCR Mission in BiH and on the occasion of the World Refugee Day, in consultations and within the Colleges, to address Mr Udo Janc, the head of the UNHCR Mission for BiH before the debate on the agenda of representatives in the House of Representatives. So, on the occasion of World Refugee Day and the publication of a Guide for Parliamentarians on Refugee Protection. The deal is, then, that Mr. Janc will address himself in 10 minutes, then we'll take a short break, and all the representatives will receive a manual that has been prepared in all three languages, and you'll be able to take it here in the lobby. After that, we'll continue the session. I beg you, Mr. Janc, take your word for it, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13366	Excellency, Mr. President, thank you very much for allowing me to address you. I'll be very brief because I know you've got a lot of work to do today. June 20th is the World Refugee Day, and we always try to mark it in a meaningful, meaningful way, so it's my pleasure to do it again today. With recognition of the important role that MPs in Parliament play in the world, UNHCR has prepared this handbook for parliamentarians and guides through international refugee law in co-operation with the Interparliamentary Union. We have organized this manual, or translated into all three official languages in BiH, and it will be available to you as we have heard from Mr. Chairman. Personally, I would say that I consider it to be a very important alliance that the UNHCR has concluded with the Interparliamentary Union, in recognition of work, not only the executive authorities and governments but also more and more legislators. The presentation of this manual followed an important event at the Interparliamentary Union Assembly held in Mexico City in April of this year. This meeting was attended by more than 900 representatives of parliaments, i.e. the chairman of parliaments of the President of Parliaments, and has provided a very useful exchange of views on the problem that you are dealing with here. Also early this month, UNHCR, together with the Interparliamentary Union and the Parliamentary Union of Africa, held a conference in Koton, Benin, which specifically discussed forced migration. Here in BiH, in order to promote and meet our UNHCR goals, it has been working closely with the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Civil Affairs for years. The UNHCR also has a very good working co-operation with the Human Rights Representative's Commission on Refugee Immigration and Asylum, chaired by Mr Elmir Jahić, and I especially thank them for their co-operation with regard to visits, tours of reception centres. Both houses of the BiH Parliament passed very important laws last year that regulate the protection of refugees and their rights. I think it is extremely important to highlight this part, this provision in view of BiH's history, a provision concerning the protection of the rights of returnees, or at the same time refugees. I think this manual will be of great benefit in the future, in the perspective of the requirements and conditions that the EU puts before your country in terms of harmonising legislation with family legislation, the EU family. This House will play this special role in further development, or the creation of these laws, especially when it comes to refugees and internally displaced persons. I think the role of this manual is double. First of all, he will introduce you to the basic principles of International Refugee Law and, more importantly, we hope that this manual will help mobilise MPs to further improve the rights of refugees and internally displaced persons in the behaviour of their responsibilities and responsibilities, as legislators, policymakers and public opinion makers. That's why I want to thank you for your understanding, your interest in this topic and your commitment that I know there are more of you in this matter. I wish you successful work, both today and in the future, and I want to stress that we will always be of service to you. Praise Mr. Chairman and members of the House. 3 [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13367	And I thank you, on behalf of the MPs and the House of Representatives, Mr. Janc, both for presenting the manual and for the overall communication, and this House will have the responsibility to approach what is suggested in this manual and otherwise to implement Annex VII as one of the most significant annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement. I once again thank the UNHCR representatives and by agreement, I am determining a 10-minute break. After that, we continue to work and determine the agenda. Thank you very much. Representatives, proceed with the 39th session of the House of Representatives. [[PAUZA]] You have received the updated agenda, i.e. the updated draft agenda. He's in line with all the presidents of the parliamentary clubs. Today, on the agenda, we don't have records from the 37th and 38th sessions, for objective reasons, because you know that we called the session the same day we held these sessions earlier. Today you have received a record from the 37th session on the bench, and we will decide at the next session. I would say, before I open a debate on the agenda, that there is a request for a change of procedure on behalf of the Council of Ministers on point 4. Therefore, the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Act on the Suspension of Suspension of the Application on the basis of executive decisions on the burden of the Budget of the BiH Institutions, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure, therefore, follows Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Therefore, only that change relating to point 4, otherwise the same agenda remains in the proposal. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Mr. Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13368	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, allow me to suggest that at the agenda point, because this is also the constitutional obligation of this Parliament, we introduce point 13 to the review report on the financial operations of the BiH presidency. I think this point deserves to get into the agenda and that's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13369	I can also say as chairman that a written request has come from Mr Lagumdžija. I gave him a written reply that, with the Business Review Report of the BiH Presidency, there is still a Business Report of 6 institutions, that this is before the competent commission, that we expect the committee's report and that when the committee in charge discusses this with the proposal for conclusions, it will be put on the agenda of the House's session. And I think that's a correct explanation and I expect at the first or second next session that we'll have all the reports. So much for me as president. 4 Who else wants to go around the agenda? Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13370	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the club, I would support Mr Bešlagić's proposal, although I also appreciate this argument, but since we are also public and here to mention the OHRR, it also requires Parliament to make a statement about it, then I think it would be good to classify this as a part of the agenda, and in the debate we may come to a working conclusion and in this direction as you have suggested, because in this country everything that is moved, it is a reason not to do something, that is the reason for new suspicion and that is the reason for concealing crime. So I would ask that we keep this in mind and put this item on the agenda, and the debate itself will show what we will have in mind. You don't really have to politicize it, you just talk objectively about it, and that's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13371	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. So I don't have any politicizing, there's no cover-up of criminal activities, and please let me ask you to respect this House and those who explain certain points of the agenda. But there are responsibilities here for respecting the Rules of Procedure and procedures of this House of the same relationship with the report on the work of all institutions. And that will be while I chair Mr. Gligorić. There will be no emergency situations and politicisation of procedures and objective requirements. Who wants to move on? Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13372	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I believe that proposing only one of the six reports we received two days ago is exactly politicizing. And let's not be serious. In public we have heard that about several of these reports actually the institution has found irregularities and I ask that the Rules of Procedure of this House and the working bodies of this House be respected. If we need to conclude that the Commission sits down as a priority and analyzes all the reports, all six audit reports and schedules an emergency session, I'm ready for that, but let's not be too serious when yesterday, the day before yesterday, we were taking the agenda. It was known about the report, and if we agree on an extended college for something, that's the way it should be. And above all, I urge that the Rules of Procedure be respected and that we do not really use this Parliament for day-to-day policy purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13373	Thank you very much. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I make any concrete remarks on the agenda, let me try, as it's called, correcting the wrong quote. 5 Of course, Parliament should discuss all the audit reports but the truth is that there is a constitutional obligation for Parliament to discuss the financial business of the Presidency. And it only decidently refers to the BiH presidency. And in that sense, this, I mean, we can't talk like that in general. This is where the request is made in accordance with both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution to discuss only the financial business of the Presidency. And now that I'm here, I'd like to make a suggestion on the agenda. I think that because of the logical composition, it would be good for the second item of the agenda, setting out the list of candidates for general positions, that item of the agenda to be found after the 12th item of the agenda, which discusses the report on the results of the pardon, beyond point 11. Report of the Joint Defence and Security Policy and Control Committee, etc. and this Committee of Human Rights and Refugees, and as regards the consideration of the conclusions of this House, which have been made, we consider the first list of general positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13375	I thank Mr. Križanović. The word was requested by the vice-president, Nikola Špirić. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13376	Mr. Chairman, the appreciation of fellow Members of Parliament, the honourable members of the Council of Ministers, I am reporting for the debate following the request of Mr. Bešlagić and the support of Mr. Gligorić to the Representative Council, of course we as a state Parliament cannot avoid all that is happening around us and all the debates that are being held and the atmosphere that the work of state institutions creates in public. I think there are many reasons and that what luck and responsibilities in this country we would have received by now in accordance with the Constitution a report on the financial operations of the BiH Presidency. Unfortunately, I have to say that in the last two years, we are not in a position to receive such a single report, although it is a constitutional category, and therefore we can have that report if the Parament decides that we should specifically discuss it because the Constitution is particularly relevant to it, but that what luck we would have today is a working conclusion and I see no reason why Parliament cannot make a decision for the seriousness of the situation and the spending of public funds, that we are considering all reports in particular. Which means getting in a package of 22 reports, I don't know 1,000 pages. Which of the MPs is getting up to read them, analyse and take a clear view, and I see no reason not to even support them, or not to conclude that we are going to advocating the report, or that today we are going to put it as a part of the agenda, so perhaps interrupt at that point in the agenda, that the competent Commission will declare this Auditor's report. So, to create space and the komisjati not to consider them in the package. I don't really know who made the decision. Perhaps the Commission has made a decision to consider all reports in the package, as has been decided to consider in the package, to consider all reports individually, but it is almost certain that it is not politically wise, so now I am speaking politically is not wise, it is not good that after such an atmosphere has been created in public, we are not considering this report. If they are not true, it says, they are not true, if they are correct to send this Parliament a strong political message, it is his role, it is his task. And I don't think I should wait for 20 or I don't know 30 institutions, and then we'll discuss the audit report afterwards. 6 But I am a legalist, I respect Parliament's decision and I propose, so I support this proposal by my colleague Bešlagić and I think it would be a good idea if we didn't have the strength to bring a special place into today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13377	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. I'm just asking not to use the terms, that someone doesn't want to consider it. I don't think that's absolutely correct and it's the second time I've warned you. So we want to consider, we have to consider it, and we're going to consider it, it's our obligation, just whether we're going to consider it this way or we're going to consider it in preparation, we're going to have a quality discussion and we're going to prepare the agenda. Here's the question for me, and as chairman, I'm pushing for today's commission to deliver the report to us urgently and to consider. As soon as he delivers, we'll put it on the agenda. And let's not politicize about it. I think that's a correct suggestion. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13378	Gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished guests, fellow MPs, I've reported, I think it's more of a replica than an incorrect quote to the vice president. Namely, what he suggested is actually a matter of college. The way the reports will be discussed is a matter of the College whether they will be discussed individually or debated at once. So it's not about this House, and we don't have to plead today or plead at all. And as for the requirement to put it on the agenda today, it is really too serious to try to get into the agenda in this unserious way. I have to say that there is a regular practice as audit reports are being considered. And it would really be out of that practice to consider the Audit Report without the Commission. So, if the Commission is scheduled, I have a notice that it is scheduled for 25. Then we will have a commission hearing and certainly will not discuss the reports in the package but individually, but at one session on each report at least I assume that the Commission will do so and I hope that we will have it at the next session. In this, of course, no one with this attitude so I don't think that anyone is free of responsibility for what's not good in the report, but we want very seriously, in this very way very seriously about this responsibility, so very seriously. Today's debate wouldn't be serious. I have to be honest, I haven't even read the Auditor's report, so I haven't read it and I'd have to read it for a serious debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13379	Replica, Mr. Špirić, so Mr. Križanović is either, or Bešlagić, Bešlagić. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13380	Of course, I have no reason in particular to replicate to my colleague Novaković, he is the management of the College can make such a decision or such a decision but what is controversial and should be for all of us, after so many words about the Auditor's report, if the entire public has had the strength to get to know the Auditor's Report, and the MPs have not yet had the strength to open it, then that is a sign of what kind of attention this is giving to us who are in the interest of the people in this Parliament. And it's true that nothing will go out of date, that we don't need to rush, but should we, as Parliament, at least send a political message that what, let the Commission do its part of the job because we need to be warned by other unions, I don't know individually different professional associations, and let's say slowly, you know, we're in no hurry. I think he's in a hurry. So that's my position and that's my position as a member of the College and as an MP. I respect the majority's decision and it will send a kind of signal to the public. So, whoever has no reason to hide and fear, he'll tell me anyway tonight, at half-night, tomorrow morning, I want to prepare myself, and I'll prepare myself, but let's say that it doesn't matter whether this month is next or whether it's the end of the month and whether the Commission or not, I think it's unserious, excuse my fellow MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13381	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Bešlagić, then Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13382	Dear Chairman, I would ask you to protect me from interpreting certain MPs on what is the task of the MPs. As far as I know, an MP can ask a parliamentary question. If it's a matter of negotiating a college without an MP, then we don't need you here, you have a college, sit down, finish your jobs. I asked the question of bringing this report into the agenda. I think we need to say, very simply, to finish. We raise our hands for, who is against, but I felt the same and necessary, to point out that I as an MP and as a citizen, I would not want to say in the chain and protect the Presidency, to be the last to say that the report is good and that these stories about the Presidency have no small relationship, or to accept the solution and to say that the Presidency is responsible and that we are looking for his responsibility for these things. But if we don't discuss what others will do to us, that's what we produce, I'd say affairs that are absolutely unnecessary. So I would ask you, I don't want my proposal to be discussed by the MPs except that they plead these matters out, is it for or against. That's how we end a procedure that's very simple. As far as I know, I have the right to set up an extra agenda without your warning that you're like let's tell the College we agreed. I realize that the College is making arrangements for what it is, if we're not going to throw anything in, then let it be said, I'm never going to make a suggestion again to put something on the agenda if it's the attitude that the College brings, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13383	Thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić, so there is a debate on the agenda. You participate in it, no one has denied you the right to explain, but also, don't expect your proposal not to be discussed, because we are now 8 discussing all proposals that are in order and possibly new, and that is the purpose of this debate right now. The replica was requested by Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13384	I mean, two days ago, we got seven reports. I am really shocked by the fact that someone here is interested in the Presidency's report and is not interested in the BiH Court's report, which is similar to the findings, among others. He doesn't care about the CRA or the RAC report, which accounts for 4 million marks. He doesn't care about that. And that tells me it's just politics. And to Mr Špirić, I mean it's not right when he says it's to be expected or it's a shame that we didn't analyze all those audit reports we got two days ago, because that's such an important question. We should have. Maybe we should have. At the last session, I asked that we put into the agenda the Accounting and Audit Act that we received on May 12th. You told Mr. Špirić you didn't study him, and that was 10 days ago. So, you've had a month almost to study the Accounting and Audit Act where you're an expert, so you didn't want to accept that law going up to 105, and you know that one of the conditions of study is feasibility. And I'm asking you to stop doing things like this and start working, because we at the extended college, Mr. Bešlagić, have really come to the conclusion that when we agree on the agenda of an extended college in which all the club heads participate, then we don't extend that agenda to the House itself. Yes, indeed, and your club chief has also agreed to that conclusion, and I'm asking that we subscribe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13385	Replica, Mr. Špirić, here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13386	So, my colleague, Seadi, let me answer. It is true that I asked that last time there be no law on accounting of the agenda point, because I wanted to check some information, that I would have the ability to support the law or be against the law. And I have to say, I used that time and I'm going to have my own clear view of the law today. And that is the right of an MP. But the Accounting Act did not create, therefore, the existence, the absence, did not create so much negative energy in the country in which we live as an audit report, and I am today ready to discuss all the audit reports. So, I don't belong in that category of MPs who need someone from the central party to tell if it's going to happen today, whether it's ready or not. I'm ready. Those who are not ready, Bešlagić is right, let them say they are not. Okay, no problem. So today we'll give our judgment on it and there's no reason to be angry. Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13387	Please, Mr. Zorić, come in for word nine.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13388	No, no, I'm not mad, please nice, so we are for it, I'm not mad if today is most of us who say we're not ready. And that's a message, or if it does, we're ready. And there's no reason to be angry. I'm clearly defending my position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13389	I thank Mr. Špirić, but we should respect each other. When someone here makes arguments on one side and someone on the other, then let's see if there's any reason to keep confrontation or if there's any reason to find one excess conclusion. And I explained, therefore, that a request has been sent to the competent commission and that here we have the fact that it will be scheduled very, 25 and that we have the conditions for a quality debate and to carry out our responsibilities, and it is still going on that someone does not want to discuss it. I really don't understand. But well, Mr. Zorić, before, are you a replica or, if the replica you have a word on, if not Mr. Moranjkić has called before? Mr. Kragulj, as please, Mr. Moranjkić, if we could have the President of the Commission, he called earlier, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13390	I respect the order in this room.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13391	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13392	Gentlemen, predating, ladies and gentlemen, only very briefly, for an explanation. I mean, without prejudice to this at all, the justification of Mr Bešlagić's request to include this point, this point in the agenda, given that it has caused a really great public attention and that there is a very serious and political and other connotations, just to say that we were already more about the circumstances and the consequences of the report with the main auditors in the Commission and that the reports of these 7 institutions were only given three days ago and that the Commission's session was immediately scheduled, with the Commission's conclusion that, in the meantime, we had already reached some conclusions on the auditors to continue their work in accordance with the law without certain, respect for certain connotations which, and certain remarks that were addressed to the Audit Office. We, 25, now have a session to discuss what has happened so far. And we think we're gonna do all this. Not like until now, it's been a practice to wait for all the audit reports on 24, and then we're going over it together. We will give our reports, or opinions, to Parliament immediately on Friday, but I know that the Presidency and Parliament's obligations and the ability to consider it particularly beyond the Office and this, the audit office's reports. Therefore, this initiative by Mr Bešlagić is fully justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13393	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Moranjkić. The order is with me next, so Mr. Felić, Milićević and Zorić, such is the order, I apologize, I have now received the list.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13394	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will have a brief comment on a part of what I have noticed and concerns the leadership of this Parliament. I think Mr. Raguž is leading correctly, and that's my grade, and I can't say that. But that's not why I answered, but I came forward because of the part of my colleague Križanović's initiative, when it comes to point 2, and I'm standing on the proposal that it be placed after point 11. to put those close to each other somewhere and be next to each other. And I've reported more because of that, so that we can pull points 5 and 6 to points 2 and 3, since we have guests sitting here in the hall who are interested and it's correct for people to listen to those points and leave us, not to listen to half the agenda, and then to come in line, and I don't see why they wouldn't do it. So you just changed places by points in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13395	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. The word is Mr. Hazim Felić. Here you go, Mr. Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13396	He's not in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13397	He's not in the hall right now. Mrs. Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13398	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13399	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13400	It seems either it's my fault in this House or no one else can apologize. I apologize for breaking into my colleague's word, and I don't apologize for the content. You see, the opposition shouldn't be hurried to replace members of the presidency, but the position should be quickly defended if the opposition thinks we're just going to defend these members of the Presidency, if something is not done by Bog of evil. I just told the press, and I don't need you to apologize for getting into my word. I'm a reporter here earlier, they asked about these audits, etc. I said if the money was spent in the service of BiH and if budget 11 was broken, representing BiH with a good wind, so that we could do better here, I am in favour of making a rebalancing and covering it. If someone from the luxury spent money, let him stand down and have no collectiveity, it's an individual responsibility. That's why I don't think it's a good idea for us to leave something behind and someone would do it right now. I don't have those materials and I'm just not ready for that session. And I ask the Commission to do its part, to work on the Rules of Procedure. We had a variety of MPs asking us to pick up 105 in time, so I was personally told so it's better than 104, although it was known that no one would have any amendments, so I said, okay, we're going to go get 104. So here we are, on one so small bill we spent nearly 2.5 months and we could have passed the law that same day that I suggested. However, there is no understanding when to have it. I'm in favour of spending the entire session on that audit as soon as possible, in the first session. Only for this revision but for the Commission to make a report for this House before that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And it shouldn't be this one, nervous if it's someone's gone, go away. If someone comes, they'll come. If anyone sees it, and someone scratches that place and he's in a hurry to be patient. Let him be patient, the time will come, even if it is done with justice, and it will be for someone, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13401	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić, would you like to join Mr. Gligorić?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13402	Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr. Zorić was saying, he is on a good track to find a solution to Mr. Bešlagić's proposal, and I think he was also speaking realistically, honestly, and I support it. But that is why I propose to the assembly majority, to accept this proposal by Mr. Bešlagić, I am convinced that the opposition will not insist on the way Mr. Zorić said it, but that we will come to one conclusion in which you have all agreed, but it is a big message that today we, after all in public, have been told about and against their behaviour in the Presidency and other institutions, decided to put it on the agenda. I ask the assembly majority that this is in your interest and if you vote against this decent one, it will be an ugly message because no one, because your discussions will not come to the eyes of the citizens, but to hide, protect and exactly the opposite of what Mr. Zorić was saying. That's why Zorić fits perfectly in to accept his proposal, we vote, when the agenda comes, we take the raps, we finish in 10 minutes with the commission's work conclusions to get to know the reports, whether we put each and every one together, and you've made a great message from Parliament that you're not dependent on anyone in this country, but to work on your conscience. I beg you, this is in the interest of your Mr. Zorić, not mine. And that's why I'm suggesting that we end this because some words fell even though I was saying, in the chosen words, someone thought it was politicizing, that it was day policy, etc. It's not real, but together, that we all make this one conclusion to work and that by the 25th, we welcome the Commission's report and then we'll go to a quality, serious debate and the public will understand it. And that's why I ask you to support it, right after Mr. Zorić's speech, and I think that 90% supported Mr. Bešlagić's proposal. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13403	Is it a replica? Mr. Živković, we have a replica before, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13404	I have to say, we've kind of assessed what's in our interest, so we're going to vote against our interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13405	Thank you very much. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13406	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to report every moment for replicas to speed up this session but I will look back on the part of the discussion that Mrs Palavrić and Mr Zorić said. Namely, the word most used in this House, by the government and by the position, responsibility, and we have seen that these responsibilities are at least, especially as the visok Representative gave his opinion and the auditor himself on the Bureau's report. And I can't agree to put in the same basket a report on the revision of the Service for Joint Affairs, for standards measuring intellectual property, statistics, etc. with the Audit Report at the Bureau. I will also make one proposal at the end of the conclusion. And tell Mr. Zorić about the rush. It's obvious that the position doesn't see you going to the 28th conference in Istanbul to fail. There must be someone responsible for why BiH did not enter the Partnership. With that same timing, you'll put in a revision of the presidency, where someone has to be responsible again. Do you really want to finish... work this month? My proposal for a conclusion is that, unless the agenda item proposed by Mr Križanović is passed, this Parliament is to be designated and recommended by the Commission for Economy, that the Bureau report should be considered in particular and that it be special in this House if the next session is to be considered in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13407	I thank Mr. Živković, I no longer have any applications for the hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13408	is not the microphone on Is the debate on the agenda going on or is this just the last one?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13409	A debate on the agenda, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13410	I hope you understand me... 13
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13411	No problem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13412	..a debate led in such a way that simply a man could no longer conclude what this one was discussing here. I therefore propose that point 4 of the Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Forced Postponing of Prolongation on the basis of executive decisions on the burden of the budget of the BiH institutions under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. goes according to Article 104, because the very content of the law goes in the direction of extending the deadline that stands out within a practical couple of days, and whether it is proposed, I apologize. I'm sorry, we support this, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13413	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. I've already said that when I read the agenda, but thank you, too, I think it makes it easier to accept this law by 104. Any further requests for a debate on the agenda? If not, then I'm closing the debate and can we go first from the proposals that were for the rotation of these intended points, it's easier. I think this point 2 should stay, it's important and we can't prolong it, it's going into a package of obligations to meet the entire segment of military reform. We can only consider whether the conditions for discussion on point 2 of the previous Joint Committee report referred to in point.... and I do not think that, at point 2, all the elements that are important for the decision on point 2 may be presented to this person, so please respect this requirement that we do not move this point. Or you'll vote. Now I'm asking the president to stay around this part. Can you accept this proposal? Who's in favour of the proposal, I'm asking the MPs to plead
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13414	For your proposal, for the president's proposal
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13415	To remain an existing order. Please plead, I do not insist. I'm asking the MPs to vote out. Vote now. So with 27 votes in, 4 against and 1 abstention, an existing order of the agenda has been accepted. We have a proposal, so Mr. Bešlagić has a proposal that I, as chairman, made regarding the demands to discuss the business of BiH institutions, particularly the BiH presidency. So, I want due to correctness, Mr Bešlagić's request was to be placed on the agenda today to discuss the auditor's report on the BiH Presidency's business, and my proposal was to find the first session of the House with the opinion of the commission and open a debate on the audit report after considering it. I think it's procedurally correct, not to delay the debate but to allow an optimal debate but I will now put both proposals to the vote. I think that's okay. Go ahead, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13416	I had another proposal... of this number 2 to below 11 but I had a proposal to discuss the Customs Tariff Act in advance, because of the guests who are here and to put it up somewhere high so people don't sit half of the parliament here and wait for that point and I don't see why they can't be under 3 or 4.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13417	I think this is highly positioned, if you'd like to make a statement about your proposal, do you insist? If you insist, I mean it's highly positioned and
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13418	Now whatever you want, I don't insist 100%.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13419	Okay, thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. I ask you, I think that the proposal that I made corresponds completely with the business procedure and with legitimate demands to open the debate but since it was Mr Bešlagić's first proposal, I will put that proposal to the plea for correctness. I ask the representatives to make a statement about Mr Bešlagić's proposal. Glamour. So the proposal is 17 for, 19 against, I also put the proposal to the vote, although I believe this one will be realised by the College, but here are the representatives to make a statement on the proposal that after 25th is on the agenda of the committee responsible at the first next session there will be a report from the Office for Auditing the Businesses of the Institutions, especially the BiH Presidency. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. With 23 votes in favour of, 8 against, 3 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, the proposal was accepted to find a Business Report at the next meeting of the House of Representatives, an audit report by the BiH institutions with the opinion of the committee in charge. Mr. Živković asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Živković. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13420	Dear Chairman, I would ask you to put my conclusion on the vote regarding the fact that this report is special, as a special item of the agenda, not to be combined with the reports of the other audits. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13421	Look, I'm going to put your proposal to the vote, Mr. Živković, but I thought that both the College and the committee in charge of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure would prepare the agenda point and its title, but here we obviously think that I am riding Mr. Živković's proposal for a vote. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. For 19, versus 17, abstention 2, a sufficient entity majority. So, I don't think there's any reason, technically it's a vote, we can get out here as he voted, get written out of service, the proposal is accepted. He's a businessman. Thank you very much. In this way, we adopted the agenda of today's session and the conclusions that were due to the request of the representatives to supplement the agenda. I thank all MPs and find that today's 39th session of the House of Representatives has the following agenda, item one, point one. Agents' Questions and Answers, 2. Confirming the list of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions, 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Accounting and Audit pursuant to Article 105, 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Act on the Suspension of Suspension of the Application on the basis of executive decisions on the burden of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, instead of Article 105 and, at the request of the Proposer and the Party for BiH Club, as well as the Chairman, to go as referred to in Article 104, 5. The request of the Council of Ministers for examination of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 105 refers to No 0102-2-7-3/5 of 18.05. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act in accordance with Article 105 of the Council of Ministers' request of 09.06 this year, 7. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, as referred to in Article 105. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, as referred to in Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 9. A request by MP Muhamed Moranjkić to consider draft law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law under Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights (first reading), 16 11. Report by the Joint Committee on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of BiH-level defence and security structures and the Committee on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on the proposal for conclusions presented in the debate on the list of candidates for general positions in the joint defence institutions of BiH, 12. Report on the results of the Commission's work to determine the circumstances of the arrest of Ante Jelavić, Miroslav Prce and Miroslav and Miroslav Rubčić, in respect of the law of the prescribed procedure and possible violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, 13. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work and the application of BiH law in 2003, 14. Report on the financial operations of the Public Business Official Journal on the annual accounts for the period 2003, 15. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on conditions of travel of citizens of the two countries, (b) the Free Trade Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Albania. Once again, I thank all the MPs and we move on to work on the adopted agenda. Point one, Ad.1. Representatives' questions and answers Answers to MPs' questions from this session were received by Mr Ibrahim Džedović, the question asked at the 33rd session. Mr. Adem Huskić, asked the question at the 35th session, and Mr. Miloš Jovanović asked the question at the 36th session. Any comments from, uh, on the answers received? There isn't. I thank the MPs. We move on to the possibility of asking new parliamentary questions. Who does? Mr. Milorad Živković, please, Mr. Živković,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13422	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, serious negotiations are being held a few months ago on connecting Russia's pipeline and port in the Croatian coast. That pipeline, as far as I know, needs to go through the Panchean refinery, through Sisak, but I didn't see that pipeline link the ship. I am interested in the Council of Ministers of the Ministry of Transport and Communications whether BiH is involved in the project? Is there any chance that the pipeline is passing and joining the ship, because I have the impression that this project rules out and that it is the last possibility that the ship's refinery will come to life and be one of the serious factors in BiH's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13423	I thank Mr. Živković. Who else does? No more parliamentary questions. I'm finalizing the first point regarding the Agents' Affairs and Answers. 17 We move to point 2. Ad.2. Confirming the list of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions has given you ladies and gentlemen representatives of the BiH presidency's decision to establish a list of candidates for general positions in the joint BiH institutions. They are proposed under 1. Brigadier, Sifet Podžić on the post of BiH Joint Chief of Staff, 2.. Brigadir, Slavko Puljić, acting Deputy Chief of Joint Staff of BiH for Operations and Under 3.. Brigadir Vlado Džojić, acting as commander of the BiH Operation Command. With the decision you have obtained the lives of the proposed candidates and have also received a report from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level. The Commission supported the Presidency's decision and proposed that the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly confirm the appointment of the proposed candidates. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. Mr. Moranjkić, here you go, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't have had any special, special discussion, but I would have asked. I have learned that some of the candidates that were brought here today had already been checked and that they had been refused, and today they were relocated. I ask why and is that true? And on what basis were they rejected in that period? They're collapsing different stories, so if they're right, I think it's a questionable acceptance of these names here, and until someone normally explains it to me, I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13425	Thank you very much. Who wants to move on? Mr. Vinko Zorić, please, Mr. Zorić,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13426	This way, I would like the distinguished colleagues to look at my stenogram, when last time it was this item of the agenda, and I said about it, regardless of what on that list, so there is not one general of Croatian nationality, that I support one and the other, so also the generals of this Bosniak nationality and the generals of Serbian nationality, to enter and that this institution is building in BiH. I have knowledge that some of these generals will not pass today. And for practical reasons, and because there are no generals of Croatian nationality among these generals, I suggest we vote individually today. Of course not to Mr. Džaferović, I am not asking for an individual statement, I am asking my colleagues for the benefit of this BiH, to do so because I have the knowledge that some will not pass. If anyone has any knowledge that they will, then they will pass individually. Right? Why hitchhik what might go, and then 18 I wasn't against it, but I said our club would support all those proposed generals and support it. And I would ask my colleagues to respect this request to get as many generals as possible to build BiH's defence institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13427	I thank Mr. Zorić. Who wants to move on? Mr. Nikola Špirić, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13428	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, of course whenever I think appointments are important in BiH's state institutions, a very important thing for BiH's future, especially from the point of view of creating and implementing reforms. I also think that when we choose and fill in vital state services, institutions should not slave a package of solutions, but that we should simply choose the most capable people who will successfully implement reforms. I think that the defence reform in BiH is a very important reform, and in this sense I want to express my personal position that I will support the appointment of Brigadier Slavko Puljić and Brigadier Vlada Džojić, and I think there is nothing disputed here today, at least for me, I hope that the representatives of the club I belong to will say the same thing, but I have the same, and we will support it, I think it is very important that these positions be filled out. It would be good if I were able to vote today for Brigadier Sifet Podžić, and that would be good, to fill these important places, but unfortunately there are arguments that do not allow me, do not give me the right to vote for Mr Podžić for the reason that Mr Podžić lives in the apartment owned by Colonel Jova Vukobrat is a citizen of BiH, who has not been a member of any army since 92 years of age, but was retired under the RS Army, which does not own an apartment outside BiH, but is the tenant and subject to various representations in RS and various trials in BiH. I, therefore, have submitted my proposal to the BiH Constitutional Court because there are 750 examples and 95% of these people are BiH citizens, and I am the small people who are in courts today because their apartments have been usurped by senior officials of the Federation Army between the rest and Sifet Podžić and I regret to say that this is not about a man who, in my assessment, will lead the defence reform of the Armed Forces of BiH, but it is about conquerors of other people's property. I want to convince you colleagues, therefore, to present to you the documents, that Mr. Vukobrat Jovo has a solution to a three-room apartment where he is Mr. Hodžić, that he has a contract on the use of the apartment, that he has a request for the purchase of the apartment he signed here has a colleague then who I have to say, it is important to say very much, and that although the Bošnjak is not here in the national structure, I have here confirmation that this is the confirmation that the Treaty on Buying is therefore a conclusion, the applicant of the request for the purchase of the apartment and the receipt that all this has been paid. Orginal document, that's a paid apartment. Then at that time, it was not a book recording apartments because there was no thorough ownership then in force and could not be registered as property because no BiH citizen could do so. Unfortunately, the Federation authorities have allowed Mr. Hodžić to buy a bought-out apartment in the 90th year. And that's what I'm warning you that small people in this country don't stand a chance if corrupt institutions unfortunately work the way they do. 19 I would like this example to be cleared, there is also a decision of the House of Human Rights, and I must speak of it, which calls for Mr. Vukobrat to be late for the return of the apartment, etc. But the dejtonski Treaty guarantees everyone back on their own, whether they're black, white, like this, like that, whether he played a flute in the military or was a cleaning lady at the Remont Institute in Hadzic, etc. I beg you therefore, that is why I will not support this appointment of any other. If there is none in this country, I am in favour of this assembly where I am an MP, buying the gentleman an apartment, so that he may be a holy example of a general who will make reforms, but in this way he cannot. If there's no brighter example in the Federation Army or in the Bošnjak, I don't think this is good, but I still ask nicely, as most people decide. My task as an MP is to warn you that it has and that it is the subject of the inter-rest subject of the abuse of Article 3a of the Law on the use of abandoned dwellings in the Federation. So I'm asking you today and I agree with my colleague Zorić, that today there's no need to stop the appointment of the others, because everyone didn't even pass in the package. Last time a group of generals was appointed, today we can appoint these two generals and ask the Bureau to propose a different name. I fear that if today is approached in another way, BiH will not walk in those steps that we expect, which we want to advocate for the creation and implementation of reforms. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13429	The word was sought by Mr. Džaferović, so Mr. Novaković, excuse me, Potočnik, Križanović, Novaković. Please, you can raise your hand except for the application of this, for every certainty that there is no one intending to skip anyone here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13430	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13431	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I want to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13432	...for Mr. Jusufovic's suggestion. I'm sorry to read before you go, Mr. Potočnik, Mr. Križanović, sir, I didn't call you, but I'm reading the order of the reported Mr. Križanović and I'm really making sure that no one looks at you wrong here, I don't really know if, what the reason is now, I'm trying to look at all of you with the same attention, I really don't know. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13433	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have come out for a pay phone here to say that today I will support the list we received from the BiH Presidency concerning the confirmation of Brigadier Sifet Podžić on the post of Chief of Staff of the Joint Staff of BiH, Brigadier Slavko Puljić, acting as Deputy Chief of the Joint Staff for Operations and Brigadier of the Vlada of Džojić, acting as commander of the BiH Operational Command. 20 I'll support the list for the following reasons. So, first of all, I think that we have waited unwarrantedly for a long time to get all these positions at the level of the Armed Forces of BiH, secondly, all these candidates have been through a routmet check by SFOR and other institutions dealing with these issues and I want to tell you that I want to believe what's been checked out there, I don't want to have a debate today, and this thing had to be subject to SFOR's verification. And I don't want to believe some of the discussions we have here today. I just want to stay indifferent to them. They are not relevant to me at all, because there is also a decision of the House for Human Rights. Who has not seen that decision, which states that the request by Jovan the Vukobrad is declared unacceptable. This is the decision of the House of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13434	Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13435	Please be nice, will you let me finish, Mr. Špirić? I trust the House of Human Rights more than, excuse me, don't be angry than you do. So this is a document that needs to be relevant, and based on this document, we need to determine ourselves and bring out the palms. I consider this an attempt not to say politicisation but a more complicated overall process of appointment, so that BiH finally gets everything it needs and what the BiH Defence Law provides for when it comes to command structures at the level of the BiH state. I can't be here, if anyone thinks there are certain problems with Mr. Podžić's apartment, there are procedures. Parliament is certainly not an institution to deal with these procedures. What is relevant for the appointment is to verify SFOR and secondly, the decision of the House of Human Rights. These are the legal documents and instruments that we need to take care of here, and I am today going to declare a single list of all three persons listed in the Presidency proposal. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13436	I thank Mr. Džaferović, there is a replica, did you have a replica? No, you're not, there's no replica. Replica Zorić, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13437	I'm not saying that every MP of this, doesn't have the right to plead what he wants, but I don't think we should go out for a pay phone individually and vote on how he's going to vote, according to my proposal. The replica is in that part. So, how about now if everyone went out there and said, if Zorić, uh, MP Zorić suggested voting individually but I will vote like this. You see, if SFOR had only checked the lists, then we wouldn't have any generals by now. And he ripped it apart, and we don't give it to ourselves in this country, where we're the biggest legislative body. We don't give ourselves what we give to others. Well, he didn't say SFOR, we got a list from the Bureau or take it or leave it, but they said this one can, this one can't. Here I am saying that the HDZ club will vote for all three. So let's go individually, why does someone bother to pass and someone doesn't pass? Maybe no one will pass. Maybe all three will pass, but why don't we give 21 options to vote on, I wouldn't suggest this if I didn't have some knowledge. I say I have knowledge of my people and let's do something. Is it good to make one third, two thirds, maybe all, maybe try to do something and fail to get a zero again, but if _________: [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13438	Please, you'll have a chance, all of you. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13439	But if I have the knowledge that something might fail and that what I'm proposing would give a better result if something fails and we vote on the list that we have a safe zero, if we vote individually maybe we get one third, two thirds, who knows. In that sense, it's my suggestion, and I don't know what's going on if any of these go through and someone doesn't pass, I don't know what's going on. So, this is the folk one, if I'm sick of a cow, I'll have a neighbor too.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13440	Thank you very much, Mr. Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13441	Mr Zorić, I was not really motivated by your discussion to go out for a pay phone, so there was no need for you to rephrase this to me at all, but here, when you have already raised this question, to tell you that we in the BiH Parliament have received a decision from the BiH Presidency on the establishment of a list of candidates for general positions in the joint defence institutions of BiH and that in point 2 of that decision it is said that this decision will be delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for confirmation under the BiH Defence Law. Therefore, this Parliament should be made aware of the Presidency's decision in one way or another. I think we have enough guarantees, so things are completely undeniable, so it's completely unnecessary to enter, try to enter this thing about Mr. Podžić's apartment that can be discussed in the future as much as you want, but today we have a completely clean situation and the necessary conditions to confirm a complete list with all three names. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13442	Thank you very much, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13443	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, it is becoming more boring to listen to these conversations that we have here at Parliament. In fact, the BiH presidency not only spends, but also does not work properly. It could have checked out precisely these candidates and I, as usual, have information for these other two, that they participated in certain actions or actions or how you want self-government to someone, which of course is not in BiH's interest. Why doesn't the Presidency suggest clean people? I guess there are some clean people in this BiH who can continue the normal work of this country. And those 22 obstructions that and these pranks that happen every day here in this House, I don't really understand and I don't see where they're going anymore. Surely they do not lead well in the interest of the man in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13444	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind you that at one of the last sessions, when we were considering the first list of people for general positions, we had if you remember a very constructive discussion, very serious, very well-intentioned which resulted in me being unanimous about this list, but also with the obligation of this House, to draw certain conclusions on this subject. With that in mind, I've also suggested replacing the agenda. And here's why. I will only read to you the fifth point of the conclusion, i.e. the report of our Commission on Human Rights, where it says in the fifth point – in the heat of ensuring co-operation between BiH institutions, we consider it necessary for the proposing or his representative to be present at meetings of the Parliamentary House of BiH in order to provide a better explanation, the solutions offered, including the BiH Presidency. Now, you see, if we had accepted this proposal by chance, and considered this report which, of course, would have been very smooth to accept this report of ours (?) The commission, with a clue to this conclusion, which I have now quoted, in the interest of the dignity of this House, I would delay a statement on this list. As far as we're showing as the House of Seriousness and Liability to this subject, we've shown this by saying last debate, where we seem unanimously to adopt the proposed list for general positions. We showed today by ranking this point at the very top of the agenda. To whom we can ask today an additional question that we have the legal right to obtain further information. Who today has a legal proposer for such an important thing that we here rank this high. I propose, in the interest of the dignity of this House, that we postpone the statement of this agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13446	I thank Mr. Križanović, Mr. Gligorić has the word. Let Mr. Jusufović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13447	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, firstly to start by defining the agenda point, that's to confirm the list, and when I talk about the list itself, it doesn't mean that we as Parliament can't decide to vote individually. And therefore this club accepts Mr Zorić's proposal that individuals should be declared in the way he suggested. At the same time, when a confirmation is said in this House, it is not merely a confirmation, and it is not only an appointing of what the Presidency or somewhere in SFOR has proposed to this Parliament, but it is the possibility of this Parliament that 23 can simply open the issue completely as Mr Križanović said, to postpone today for reasons which he has spoken and which I support, until we can also refuse individually or all the proposal. Therefore, it is the possibility of Parliament, if someone wants this Parliament to discipline and make it obedient, on the basis of some proposals and in Parliament there is already enough reason to doubt the validity of this proposal, then I do not think it is correct. I don't think it's even correct, that there are none of the promoters, let's say here's the presidency here, what Mr. Križanović was talking about. By the way, they have a steady practice from the Council of Ministers here, Mr. Terzić is here, so thank you and all the office, I respect that. In any case we should not let it go in Parliament we have a congregation majority, let them gnaw a little there, they laugh at us like this, they laugh at Parliament and not at the opposition. You should always keep that in mind, the dignity of this House. And that's why I think we should go individually. And as for Mr. Sifet Podžić and regarding his use of the apartment, or the purchase of the apartment, or if he calls for the law or the House of Human Rights, at the same time, you can't forget that this Colonel Jovo Vukobrat, 92, bought the apartment, gave the money, and that nothing is disputed. If you are referring to the Federation law which is now in front of the Constitutional Court and Mr Špirić has raised the issue on his own, to challenge just the discriminatory members who have allowed Mr Hodžić to come into possession and today it is said that he is legally using this apartment. So if we remember both OHR and the AIPTF at the time about cops who couldn't stay in the service, regular cops, I mean we're all regular people, but here I want to say because of these rankings, they had to quit their jobs and couldn't stay in someone else's apartment. That measure applied to an ordinary policeman. Honorable people who did their job and they abandoned it. You know about how you national parties allowed this, get into someone else's apartment, we'll give you a solution, it'll be this one, yours, no one can get you out of it, you've built that policy of yours in time, eh, but that's what these people have left once. Now the generals won't. Therefore, the House of Human Rights is not infallible because it goes from moment to moment, from law, so nothing is infallible to Mr. Džaferović in any country.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13448	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13449	Well, because you're banging something out there, yeah, you're very excited about my discussion. I apologize. Therefore, to appeal to the law, and within that law is an integrated policy of the Party of Democratic Action, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, who you have raised to the level of the law and you have legalized the kidnapping of practically and sacred property that is sacred in every country, you have raised to the level of the law and now you are imagining by law, and whose will is this law? The will of the U.S.A. And that is why it is necessary to vote individually and this club will not, of course, support Mr. Sifet Podžić for the reason that this apartment should be returned and called for a law adopted on the basis of the will of the SDA and the programme action where you have installed that member, in order to eliminate that man who bought his apartment by accident in this case a Srbin or no matter who, I am equally observing people in this country, you are making it impossible to allow that right. Be careful, in RS since Munib asks this, in RS in Banja Luka, anyone who has sought and bought 92nd apartment from JNA in Banja Luka has solved the issue. He didn't ask for 24 confirmations about where he was, where he worked, here I now explain that the man was not in any army, on the other hand they were all in the army but in the RS they respected everything and didn't make this kind of problem that we have today in the Federation. Therefore, I would really ask you to take this seriously, to stand behind a man who uses other people's property, it is not to you, if you have sinned in time, do not make any more mistakes to Mr. Džaferović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13450	Thank you very much, sir. Are you finished, Mr. Gligorić? Thank you very much. Mr. Jusufović, have you heard from Mr. Novaković? Then after Mr. Jusufović, before Mrs. Palavrić, it is the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13451	Mr. Chairman, I've really been trying so far at every point in the agenda to act in principle, to follow some principles. However, here I must note that I smell a lot of something of unnecessarily. And this, on the side when I want to address where non-discipline is, then I see it on the side of the order of the Serbian MPs against the work so far, and all of the order of the Serb people, because I am from the RS, too, but I want to explain why. We have proposed a series of things to go individually to make up for a number of things, however, SDA, HDZ and SDS never allowed themselves to enter the package. Today I think the SDA needs this, I want to make it clear, that this is what it needs, that the SDS just skips like this. Because most of the candidates from the Serbian people have passed, and is that principle to you? Niko of us voted in a package for reasons to simply move faster because they were demands to pass reforms. Today, I feel like it's deliberately working so I can call myself some higher shape, but it's clear on stage something else. I'm surprised, gentlemen, from the HDZ, it smells like some of you are proposing individually now, and I'm proposing to the stranka for BiH either in a package or no one gets through today and to slowly get some things back to square one. I'm going to vote for the whole list because I've had objections so far to some individuals, but we didn't want to open up working just to go through this, this today and the other. What right do you have here, I appreciate you, Mr Špirić and Gligorić, from where you have the right to doubt the official institutions and institutions called the House of Human Rights, please don't. If you change any other decisions, then you're going to anarchically some behavior. And it really doesn't go into my head and it looks like some kind of non-principle deal. Once again, please, or vote according to the principles so far, let's go ahead with what the plans are drawn or get some things back to square one. Once again, it wasn't as if the ESFOR had come in that way, but most of the time you know very well that it was mostly this one, candidates from the Serb people because you think I didn't have any objections because I have exceptional information there on individuals from the Serb people's order. I didn't want to talk about reform, because it's a task. So this time I'm saying this for those reasons, because I feel like I'm doing it unscrupulously, so I suggest either a package or a fall. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13452	Thank you very much, replicas, Mr Špirić, Mr Zorić, Mr Jović, Mr Gligorić and Mr Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13453	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I didn't mean to report for Mr Munib's replica, that he hadn't begun to return things to the beginning and talk about the package. I must say, whenever I debated here, I also debated against the Srbin last time, so Munib voted for him. I don't know when he sees indiscipline when he needs SDA or when he doesn't need it, but we have to...no Serbian, Bosniak and Croatian stories here, so do you know that people who used longer property couldn't be on the list for MPs. This is about the man who bought the buyout of the apartment in 2000, before the House of Human Rights decision. How can you defend that? It doesn't matter xy is not Sifet Podžić, it's human x. So there are no Serbian, Bosniak, Croatian stories here, and I respect that you challenged, I disputed proposals for Serbian generals. So no one else but Nikola Špirić in this House. And please don't talk about the package. If you care about reform, let's vote for honest people. How can we stand behind someone who's like that? So I don't tell you Nikola Špirić here by heart. So I'm giving you an insight into the paperwork. You give it to me. How is it possible that a war general who won a three-man apartment doesn't matter whose apartment it is and now don't go any further in the general's interest to speak. And please respect your colleagues when they discuss it. I respect your discussions. Don't put me in the package. I'm not hitting on the ball or the SDA or the HDZ or the SDS. So I'm talking about what will be the pillar of BiH's armed forces reform. Are there any better? Because we're here to choose better and it's true that SFOR didn't check the property, ask them. Here's to asking as Parliament. But she's safe, they're interested. And as an MP, you can see I'm interested in this, too. And not now or in the package or not. Now it's in a package or there's no one that brought BiH here where it is, to choose people, organs that don't work. So, suggest, I have nothing, so this isn't against the Bošnjak, give the Muslims a better one, I'll vote right now. Give the one for who doesn't have these papers. But if we're gonna be here just for a second then we're here where we are and please, I haven't, I haven't been, and I don't seem to be defending myself last time the SDS was for a single vote, every time. It's not true he didn't. But we can't all go to SDA policy or package or anything, so in that package, BiH came here where it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13454	Please time, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13455	Thank you very much, this is the time, so I'm talking about xy here, not the name.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13456	Replica Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13457	I answered the correct incorrect quote and replicated at the same time. So it's not true that there's neither principle nor non-principal coalition, but there's something else. 26 There is, a desire not to be any Croatian general in the Joint Command. But since the SDA Club and the Party Club for BiH doesn't always have party discipline, I hope they won't have any today either. So, that my proposal will pass, because I know when from the order of the Party for BiH, Minister or Chairman of the Council of Ministers something proposed by the SDA Club does not support it but supports it mixedly, so I hope that despite Jaferovic's approach my proposal will pass and that I will be supported by colleagues who understand this. Here, for example. Jozo Križanović, Selim Bešlagić and others who are not from the SDS and who are not in principle and not in principle coalitions. I think that from every almost club someone told me here, at least someone here told me when he got into my word, colleague Jusufović, when he said I didn't think individually, when they were concessions. Everyone told me here, so it's not the two of you that are at issue, and just then, counterpart Novaković suggested that he go individually. And I, let's take a look at the stenogram, I didn't even talk about whether it was going to be individual or list. Well, it would be acceptable for you, if this proposal had come to three lists, then we would have voted on three lists and it would have been all right. Or should we ask the Presidency to split this into two lists. Or we would like to postpone going back to the first sentence, never to be of the order of the Croatian people, not a single general in the Common, if that is what we want, then reject my proposal and what is further, if it is in the interest of BiH, the Ministry of Defence and Defence Policy of BiH. I call upon you to reject my proposal. But I don't think that's in the interest. I now think myself, were any representative of the Croatian people that it was not the constitution and the law, because someone would probably pass the law that it should not be from that nation any MPs. Shall we end the House of the Peoples, so that we may be adorned here? We can do whatever we want but when he just touches something like that. The headquarters, which is relevant to BiH, then the campaigns run like that, that I'm afraid. I don't know what this is all about. I'll run it if it's not controversial and it says I'll vote for the list, isn't it hard to raise your hand three times? Is that a tough physical job? Or what I just said, if this one doesn't pass, don't let all three pass. I say I'll vote for all three individuals, if my proposal doesn't pass, I'll vote for the list. I'll vote for the list if I don't pass my proposal to plead individually. What's my non-principle? Either way, I'm voting for all three. And if my case doesn't go through, I won't say, now I'm going to vote against the list, for spite. There's no spite in me. I will vote either one or the other, but since I see that this proposal will not be supported by representatives from the Federation of the ruling majority, I hope that out of the minority, it will support my proposal, because this is a very reasonable proposal and that it will pass sooner and that we can choose all three generals individually today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13458	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. The replica was Mr. Jović. Next, Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Živković, written down, just patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13459	I thank Mr. President, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to comment on the wrong assumption. For this time, as far as we are in this distinguished high house, for the first time, I feel kind of small and proud. Call it a non-discipline coalition, 5:15 is very convenient, so I congratulate the speaker. With that and how I can collage when I'm with myself, I can barely come here. But, well, let it be returned. Congratulations on your thinking. The only motive the club president has given. It's not good in a state community like this, that there's not one people in the formation phase, so 27 again, two, three years of media, we're going to be obsessing every day about how we're unequally legal, the other one's going to shut up, and we're going to take the people one where they belong. Then they'll tell us it's their own fault, they won't fill their seats, run from the main work, they want to go to Herzegovina, etc. Gentlemen, help the country to be equal for every broad one. It's our only coalition.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13460	Thank you very much. Did you sign up for the replica? Here you go, sir, no, not Gligorić, Živković, so Jusufović, so Belkić is such a order if they are replicas. Are you a replica? All right, then, for the debate, Mr. Belkić. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm just trying to determine the order. So we still have Gligorić, Živković, Jusufović replicas. Then comes the debate of Mrs. Palavrić and Mr. Kunić, and then the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13461	Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13462	Please stick to the time for replication.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13463	Thank you, too. I'll respect that. Mr. Munib Jusufović said some things that I can support but in one part when he spoke about the House of Human Rights, as I can say, I just want to say that I was saying that no one is infallible and if the MP has no right to criticise, and even if he is not right, you must not deny him the right to do so. And again, I'm making a connection with what you from the ruling coalition, the decisions of the House of Human Rights, and I'm going to try to bring in countless of them that you haven't spent, that you can play with the decisions of the House of Human Rights, and your mouth is full of the House of Human Rights and you're violating human rights in this country, and I'm going to try to make it next time, so you'll see that I'm more innocent in the criticism of the House of Human Rights than you who don't execute their decisions. And secondly, what Mr. Zorić was saying, I think the man has set up, if we are already on the line of principle, he has very principledly asked this question of election and staff of generals from the order of the Croatian people. I will personally support it, because it is really unacceptable that we did not fill in from the Croatian nation of elders in this period, General, because it is really necessary. If I had some knowledge like I have for this man, I would have also raised that question and denied my support. I have no such knowledge and therefore I can give support to both the proposal and the Croatian staff. Therefore, I would ask the chairman to understand in this case, so my replica in this case that it is not correct to impute an MP, if he criticises any institution, because tomorrow you will forbid me to speak about the BiH presidency, you will tell me to speak in principle about any institution, I think I should talk about anyone if I have any knowledge. In this case, I have one, and I will also make an effort to the House of Human Rights to address this House and this Parliament that the 28 parliamentary majority, or at all levels of government, violates the decisions of the House of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13464	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13465	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, is a replica and an incorrect allegation. The replica is compared to the Srbin from the RS, although Mr Munib looked at the SDS MPs, yet there are some of us and others here, Srbin and other parties in the opposition, and we want to say that if you remember we voted against the Law of Defence a little bit, because we have a completely different political stance, which is why we believe that this BiH does not need any military, on the other hand, if we are going to explain the non-principledness, principle, we did not vote for candidates from the Serb people, because we asked that someone from the Presidency who is authorised to be here, on the other hand, as there are today, explain such a thing, and you will probably also hope to vote for the Commission's report, where the Commission for Human Rights and Refugees, recommended that, when some of them are going to be in these sessions, you have made a mistake. So there are different us, we have which we are principled, and I will not answer the principle spoken of by Mr Gligorić, about respecting the decisions of the House of Human Rights, about the pensioners, we have talked about it several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13466	Thank you very much, Mr. Živković. Now the word is Mrs. Sead Palavrć, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13467	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13468	I'm sorry, sir. My mistake was a replica of Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13469	It seems to me here I will, practically, have some incorrect allegations and answers, very briefly. It seems to me that we're needless or at least one number of us have entered now to explain what I think. I've been talking about impeccableness since the start of the candidate's run from the first list to now, that's what I've been talking about. I have to be honest, that I said and that I wasn't reassured by anyone who discussed it afterwards that I'm wearing the impression here today, that there are indiscretions about this. I don't have proof, I said what I think. The fact is, and I said, and that is the fact that candidates from the Croatian people, I can't remember until now whether anyone has passed, it's mostly hard to go, that candidates from the Bosniak people are not filled and that they are mostly, they're facts. At no point did I say that I believe in the order of the Croatian people as though today it were a candidate from the order of the Serbian people or candidates, that this is controversial. But I don't know why Špirić and I are arguing about the Human Rights House. He can criticize whoever he wants. And I'm criticizing you and perhaps less House of Human Rights, I'm taking some others, I'm only taking the relevant, the fact that the House of Human Rights has given its court, 29 has brought its assessment to Mr. Džaferović... that's for me for now. When it changes, it's another story. I still don't think I called the coalition unencumbered, but I accept Mr. Jović, you're much better informed, if you've already said that it is, it's okay with me that it is what I said is indiscipline. If you followed well, I didn't mention the word coalition anywhere but you've defined if it is, I'm really not going to deny you because you know better what you were thinking, then you probably did, but I didn't say that. And now I think about it, this is my personal attitude. I just asked my colleagues from the BiH Party to stick to these issues in principle, but they don't have to vote here individually, that's ours, that's our attitudes, and I have to say more. If it is the Party for BiH, there are no particular reasons, you well, this is proposed by the Presidency. So it comes from the Bureau, according to which our member of the presidency is gone. So we have no particular reason to fight, because the Party for BiH has never participated in either one, not from the first to the last, but I have talked about the principles and I have expressed my position and therefore I say, I will vote as I voted from the first proposal to the last one for the list. Well, I don't see any reason for you gentlemen, you've done your job, I don't know if there's any more candidates. Eh, when it's next, this is how we're gonna do it. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13470	Thank you very much, Mr. Jusufović. The word is Mrs. Palavrić. Let Mr. Kunić prepare himself. Tell Mr. Jovanović you have something to say. You will leave the lady, Mr. Novaković, or you will insist. The order is Mr. Novaković, I think she's right, here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13471	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have heard here that the gentleman who was the homeowner of the apartment, now used by Mr. Hodžić, is a poor pensioner of the RS, did not go anywhere and should exercise his right to the apartment. Let me read to you only part of the Official Military List of Yugoslavia in March 1997. Order number 1026 of the Yugoslav Army General Staff of March 3rd 97nd, under Article 152 of the Yugoslav Army Act, ceases professional military service to the infantry colonel Vukobrat Jovo, Jovan. It's the gentleman whose apartment it's about. So the apartment he used before Mr. Podžić used it. I'm only saying this for the sake of truth, although I don't think at all that this fact is crucial because the House of Human Rights was making decisions in cases when people bought apartments in 92, 90, 91, if they found evidence, if dom found evidence that the apartment was bought, he ordered that the apartment be returned to the property of whoever bought it, and if it was in the Yugoslav Army, or some other state, then he only ordered that it have to register his right to rule and that in a court case it requires the return of the apartment in possession. So that's how Dom acted in cases where such facts existed. In a concrete case, the House noted in its decision of 9 October last year, when Mr Vukobrad's application was declared unacceptable, that the applicant had not delivered a written agreement on the latter, and that the applicant admits that he had never concluded such a contract with the former JNA. Furthermore, I won't bother you, House 30 notes the fact that the applicant felt that the application to the House was sufficient to return to the possession of his pre-war apartment. However, the House understands that under the jurisdiction of the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, given the House's term of office as the last instance, and the condition that domestic legal medicines should be exhausted first, the House cannot certainly be considered a competent court. For this reason, the applicant has not submitted a request to the competent court, the competent administrative authority or the SRPS for return to his pre-war apartment before the deadline, as required by Article 5. The law of termination of application. So, the gentleman never submitted a request to the competent authorities within the legal time limit for the return of the apartment, never. They have laws, please, Mr. Gligorić, I guess we're lawyers, this is a legal state, and let's not be serious. I kept my mouth shut while you were discussing. There's a law if we're gonna say nothing now, so there's nothing, let's rip up Dejton, let's tear it all apart. There are laws, there are deadlines, he didn't do it. Furthermore, the House notes that the applicant does not require that his right to property be established before domestic authorities, nor did he ask for it, he completely ignores domestic administrative authorities, SRPS and domestic courts. The podnosilac could file a complaint and request that the Court establish its ownership on the basis of the salaries made in 92, as provided for for for for, for example, by the Court of Justice. Article 172. Law on litigation. I believe that his deadline is not outdated and that he can still do it, let him do it. Let him start respecting domestic institutions. But what is a fact, therefore, that the electoral law and the Law on the State Service that only appears to be here seems to me to be applicable to this case, is that it is not possible to be chosen or appointed by a person who uses an apartment for which a claim for the return of a household right has been filed. This isn't the situation. If it happens, that's the situation, and when it happens, the gentleman will leave that apartment, but until then it's a clean situation. And I'm asking you not to mislead people who don't have all these papers and who haven't had a chance to get acquainted with everything. I don't accept the attitude when we talk about the decisions of the House of Human Rights, even though I disagreed with a bunch of them, that no one is infallible. I do not accept the invitation to the Dayton Agreement and the rejection of the House's decision on Human Rights, because the Dayton Agreement says, in addition to the Constitution and in Annex VI, that the House's decisions are final and binding and that they are being delivered to the High Representative and other international institutions and to the OSC of the Council of Europe and that the parties will be fully guided by the Court's decisions. I invited you a year ago and something called for the other decisions of the House of Human Rights that have not been implemented to present, to share them with everyone, to read them. However, you did not do so, and for this case it is relevant that the Commission had this in mind, the Joint Commission for this proposal for a whole list, not individually, that members of the Serb people expressed their abstention, they said, but they supported the decision because of the fact that we need to meet the requirements for a call for a peace partnership that happens in 10 days. So I ask you to do as our constitution and our laws say and accept the Bureau's list, to confirm that the appointment could be carried out. Thank you very much. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13472	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Novaković was before you, Mr. Kunić, they corrected me, and here I am asking you to understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13473	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seems to me that colleagues have been getting ready for this point since they obviously have some data that most of us don't have here. I must say that I have put a lot of effort and time into getting what Mrs Palavrić said about Mr Bečirbašić. And that I couldn't possibly get that document when his service stopped, professional service in the Federation Army. And one three times I personally and as a member of the Commission also wrote to the Federal Ministry of Defence and asked those questions and I didn't get it. morati guess I'll just have to go to the official messengers and see if it's ever been published in an official messenger. What I also want to say here to meet this home that I am on the Commission, asked the Joint Commission to ask this question and asked that, by today's session, I get the documentation, which is therefore valid documentation that will deny or confirm what I was looking for. I've been given the House of Human Rights Decision. What confuses me are some documents Mr. Špirić read, which are said not to exist in the House of Human Rights Decision. It's something that has brought me now into confusion not to say in error. I'll try to stay away from the big words when it comes to this agenda point, and I don't think they needed what they were told either. I refuse to insinuate that anything is directed against any nation. Gentlemen, the SDS Club has voted so far for proposals from both the people and the other people, and also the Serb from which they have been elected so far, both from both Serbia and Bosniak. We even voted in favour of some generals who were later challenged at the House of Peoples fully aware and were aware of these facts. But we felt that there was no need for this documentation at the moment and that it would be good to show the will therefore to show the will and not to have exactly this kind of innuendo as Mr Jusufović unfortunately said. So I refuse them. This has nothing to do with the Bosniak people, neither Croatian nor Serbian. But gentlemen, an ordinary citizen can't go to the polls if he's using other people's property. So he has to get out of that property to go out and vote for us who should now vote for Mr. Sifet Podžić. He couldn't vote for us. There's a formal legal explanation and I can accept it. The House of Human Rights makes a final decision and they cannot be challenged. I disagree. We can dispute them individually, not tell where they're lucky they're all being executed. We know the good of one we persistently try to respect in Republika Srpska, so they are not respected or applied. But I'm saying I'm not contesting any decision by the House of Human Rights, nor question objectivity. What I'm saying here is in the army often mentioned the term moral. So the concept of morality. The fact that Mr. Vukobrat was late to apply and for a formal reason he could not enter the property does not release Mr. Hodžić's moral responsibility to get out of that apartment and become a general, or 32 head of joint staff. That's the side I can't accept here today. Not if it's formal or not formal. I'd say the same thing if you believed it was any general we were talking about so far. If you want to believe, of course. If you won't, that's not a question. The presidency could have defined this decision differently. Do not say that he could not say that the decision to set up a proposal by Brigadier Sifet Podžić was on the post of Chief of Joint Staff and the second decision, the decision to determine the proposal, is concerning the post of Deputy Chief of Staff, etc. You got it. Even I think it would make more sense to make decisions like this. Why? Because this isn't final and it's not one. I would accept this if everyone had suddenly found themselves in one place all the generals needed and then this decision goes on. But since certainly those individual ones, for me it would be more logical if it were defined differently, but of course the Presidency is, it's up to the Presidency not to us. The presidency therefore defined it as defined. The way we vote it's this club's business, we'll decide. There's no need for anyone to vote before we vote, saying we're going to vote. I think our remarks are of a principled nature. I think they're serious that they're warning. I thought my coming down on the Joint Commission was also a warning. I expected it to be so understood. Obviously, it wasn't so understood that we're just some formal things here to this day... but of course I'm appealing and I'm asking my colleagues to refrain here about the story of the peoples, because there's no story here about the peoples. I don't see her. So I don't see the story of the peoples, and I pray that we really don't go that way with our discussions because we're going in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13474	Thank you. It's a Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13475	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of me here really, looking at the legal aspect there is no clear situation that I could personally identify myself. Namely, if a court dispute is being conducted, it is already a very important and relevant fact for this home in the matter of commitment. So there's a court dispute as far as I understand the situation. The other thing that matters, that face, Mr. Vukobrat bought the apartment, so he's in that period, as far as I've seen, I don't know how he bought the apartment at the time he could. How can private property be taken away and become an age-old? I'm asked a question for private property. State housing is known to have been trading deadlines, code, I don't know how old here can be. How about private property? It's impeccable. He became the owner of that apartment. So I find many things incomprehensible. The other thing when it comes to decisions on the decisions of institutions, including the House of Human Rights, is that they are very often problematic. Often unbalanced decisions. Often they are the expression of creating a public change before making a decision. I will be free here to say that it is, that the Constitutional Court makes decisions that way. So one public change is created, pressure is being made through the press, etc. And then the Constitutional Court, in my opinion, sometimes makes very difficult decisions. Of course, I am not afraid, as Mr. 33 Novaković may have said, I know that decisions are mandatory and must be implemented, but that the quality of the decision can be given an opinion, absolutely in any country, possibly in this country. I would remind you back two three months when this house almost unanimously passed a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Refugee and Displaced Persons regarding the return of dwellings. Namely, in the Council of the House of Humans, after which another home, the House of People was drawn vital interest and now, as far as I have information creates an atmosphere to respect this vital interest, etc. And that law had the best intentions, he had the intention of saving people from being left without one or another property and staying. It's the greatest injustice. It's that even the greatest right can be the greatest injustice and that's the case. So, if it were principled, we are full of indiscipline in this House and also in other BH institutions, full. There's always this unprincipledness. Of course, I'm not the one to judge someone's undisciplinedness as Munib did a little bit of an effort to assess my principle, which is not relevant. Of course I don't appreciate it in that way. So I have a lot of things here that are very problematic, very problematic and that is why I won't be able to vote for this candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13476	I thank Mr. Kunić. Before Mr Belkić applied for the debate, the replica of Mrs Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13477	Unfortunately, I really have to replicate because I interpreted the provisions of the laws that are relevant here. So, in order for someone to be unnamed, there would be a requirement to restore their right to housing. In this case, there is no requirement for the return of a tenant right to an apartment used by Mr. Podžić and I must replicate Professor Kunić on his assessment that this decision should have been made at home. In fact, before you could know the fact that the Dom, whether it's moral, that the House, on occasions where former JNA officers or members of the former JNA remained in the Yugoslav Army here, had an apartment with tenant rights from the military fund that they were giving, was given the same basis of a flat in Yugoslavia and now have the right to return to the apartment in Bosnia and Herzegovina and has such decisions in front of the home, but they are respected. They had to be respected. So, I still don't have the information whether Mr. Vukobrat or he got a place in Yugoslavia, actually Serbia-Montenegro. I believe so, since it's only '97. years retired. He lived somewhere, and I believe he has an apartment there. So we'll find that out later, too, if we have to run another procedure, but that's the House's decision in cases of concrete in some cases, but in particular it's not, and I'm just asking you to respect the decisions of the highest instance, the legal findings in this country, and everything that happens later on, we're going to apply. How to acquire what circumstance from which law we will apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13478	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Kunić. Here you go, Mr. Kunić. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13479	Mrs. Palavrić, I said quite clearly, if Mr. Vukbrat bought the apartment, it's not about the state's apartment anymore, it's about private property. And that's an important fact, did Mr. Vukobrat buy the apartment? Please ask me a question, let me be answered, by those who have proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13480	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13481	Here you see colleagues and colleagues, the way that happens here is here in the second hour about this proposal is extremely irrational and it is constantly in some direction of confrontation and constantly using some arguments, half-arguments, half-knowledge, knowledge, etc. We were only in the second hour of the debate to rely on a report from our competent commission that discussed this proposal, etc. Prior to that, the rapporteur in a report that was cited twice, three discussed that only in the third appearance would he mention that the Commission had made a report, etc. So our way of arguing is completely irrational and we're spending it on confrontation. Of course you don't have to accept that. You can still appear 10 times the same, repeat the same thing, from the newspaper clips, complaints, applications, etc. to carry with you and you have the right to do this to Parliament, but I'm telling you it's irrational. Of course, the role of the promoters and our working bodies is absolutely neglected, i.e. they do not use it and we are constantly in the situation in which we are. I hope now that we have finally received someone who will answer some of the questions that have been raised here even though this is not about the representative of the direct promoter, but I am counting that the person from the processor's ranks is in some way, i.e. part of the process, etc. The BiH party did not deal with obtaining these documents, evidence, etc. and we will rely on the procedure, on our rules of procedure, on the Commission's report and on what is in the official documents. I just want to say the following is that the faces, and this wasn't forced into either, but the system gave them or didn't assign certain things. So when it comes to the moral aspect of the person we're talking about, I pray you keep in mind, so the faces didn't do it to themselves, but to the system-based legislative regulations. Therefore, we will bear that in mind and also the fact that both officers and members of the police, etc. They are constantly subject to some checks, certificates, property aspects and are obliged to give some questionnaires as many as I know. And finally, so the Presidency document is a single document, so one decision is proposed, we will support the decision and, of course, be sure that we are absolutely keeping an eye on it and that it is very important that all the principles of representation and everything else are absolutely respected and that not one moment at all, because it is very difficult for a man when he hears in this assembly that one people will not, there is no rubber in those structures at all, etc. I do not see any reason not to, and I assure you, Mr Jović, that this will surely be met at least as far as the Party for BiH is concerned, and at the end of the 35th, we do not mind that we are a bit of an object of interest and analysis of our behaviour in Parliament. We don't do how others vote or why they vote. We will behave in our own confidence and in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13482	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. I'm just checking to see if you heard from Mr. Živković or if it was a replica. No, I don't. Then Mr. Adem Huskić, then Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13483	I, what I wanted to say to the most part, was exactly what my colleague Belkić said. I am a member of the Commission and here sits other members of the Commission, and I think that, although I highly appreciate the way you hold this session at home, I think at first you missed the opportunity to say or to point out to the MPs that there is a report saying that the Commission unanimously supported the Presidency's decision. A similar debate was held on the Commission today, mentioned by counterpart Novaković, and we then discussed on the Commission whether we should declare the names or decisions of the predsjedištvo individually, and we decided to vote on the Presidency's decision, because the Presidency's decision was adopted and I think we should do so today both for the Presidency and for the whole procedure. Here I was following, we are now the sixth link in the chain to check or participate in the creation of this list. It's the Federal Ministry of Defence, so then the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the Presidency, so SFOR, so the Commission, that's five of some kind of cards, and we're here, and now I think this debate has been held on each and every one of them, and I think we're wasting our time here discussing it, and if we're talking about principle, then I'd just remind my colleagues that we're both the Council of Ministers and the previous list of generals and the Commission for concessions all adopted as a decision. So it would be unprincipled to come up with a proposal in my opinion to vote on individuals. I'm not saying that we don't need to adopt a principle like this that in future each vote is not individually controversial. But then we'll agree on principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13484	I thank Mr. Huskić for his comment. I will only remind you that during the opening of the debate, I informed this House that we had received a report from the Joint Commission which supported the Presidency's decision. So before I even opened the debate, I warned the MPs that they had it in front of them. I do not intend to warn after every debate, especially in the way that everyone feels so threatened in terms of obtaining the opportunity to debate, replica and everything else, so that I fully agree with you that there were enough elements to rationalise the debate, but MPs are looking for a word and I have to give them a business permit and it's just that. 36 Thank you very much. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13485	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm hoping we've brought in this debate of kaja, I just want principles to work, see when something is read, then I need to read it all the way. It's not the decision of the House of Human Rights a document that not everyone can have in mind to read it. What I have from the documents can be given to all fellow Members if they want to have and if it is not prepared. I don't think it's a good idea that in the package what the Presidency is doing is making decisions, but it's a matter of general mistrust and we're falling into the package, we're going to see how far we're going to go. But here in the decision of the House of Human Rights it is said this way that no one will read it – the conclusion of the sentence on which it stands. According to Dom, the applicant has previously not exhausted effective domestic legal medicines as required by Article 8.2a) of the Agreement, or in the part in which the applicant claims that it should be recognised as the owner of his pre-war apartment on the basis of payments made in '92. the applicant has not exhausted domestic legal medicines as required by Article 3.2 of the position a), or, therefore, it is not, or is said here – the House further notes that the behaviour of the authorities responsible for the procedure under appeal by the applicant, such as the Federal Ministry of Defence, includes the responsibility of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, rather than Bosnia and Herzegovina for the purposes of Article 2a) So that is the decision of the House of Human Rights concerning this dispute. But if someone had a dilemma here and read the official papers, I will now give you the original solution that is read in the submission list says – the belief that the Vukobrat, so I'm sorry that we're talking today, but you see it was logical that as Parliament, if we had the dilemma of that unfortunate and the general brought here, as well as these from the meat processing industry colleagues won't get rid of it, so to say what they have if they want MPs to have the truth and that...that one small man, and thousands of such in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is saying which gogogue is in the application of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement when they face the robust state institutions and generals we want to choose. They say Colonel Jove Jovan was born on January 10, '42. in the Sanski Most BiH, the home number and that was a member of the former JNA uninterrupted since 23.7.'61. until 12.5.92. A year. Republika Srpska's record was taken over on May 13th, '92. The year is until July 1st, '97. A year. The conviction is issued at the request of the designated person, and it serves as evidence until '95. The year remained in Republika Srpska's army, etc. to buy an apartment. He did not serve in the Yugoslav, Serbian-Montenegro armies. There's no apartment there, there's no place in Bosnia and Herzegovina, none of it's property except this. Durgo's conviction. Well, there isn't. I'm sorry he doesn't, but we're calling for him to reveal others. Why would I allow, excuse me, why would I allow General Hodžić, which I am not allowed as a citizen. I bought someone else's apartment, too, but I bought it, not bought it. Well, it's not the same to pay a thousand marks and 120,000 marks. Let's take a look in the eye. Or another confirmation which is given by the command, etc. garrison confirms retirement before, but give us a chance to trust the documents or we'll outwit ourselves. So this is still the subject of the Constitutional Court dispute. I'm sorry I'm saying I'm for the general who needs to be clean, let the state buy him an apartment, 37 but he can't be the general who kidnaps and here's the moral question. How is it possible that a colleague, so take it there was also a professor of university who entered the professor's flats and morals worked and came out. I don't know if there's one left to go. But if Parliament is ready to call people here and tell you how this is going to work out. So for me, this is all clear. It's no problem if there's a lot of people to do it in one way or another. Be sure as I've been acting so far when the individual appointments that it will be my sequence of things on all other cases. I'm sorry this can be interpreted when the general's choice is one way or another, but everything can be interpreted. I was talking about some things the last time I looked at the list and saw who said it, and what kind of story he was telling, of course, and then we can come up with another tragic knowledge that I wouldn't talk about today, and everyone who's ready to open up these different stories. And please nice, it's not, no matter what, you see, it would be good if we'd taken two hours to praise the candidates to look forward to it. Unfortunately, any candidate who produces so many stories is not good for the future of what we call Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is there a better question for me? So are there any better ones who don't have this one? And I don't think that the Presidency there knows for what reasons those things that colleagues talked about the decision on the appointment is the decision on the appointment, and it's not a decision on the list of appointments. And I don't know how they're going to get a solution individually. Whether they will receive a collective appointment solution or each will be given individually. And no, I think this is the most important House after all the checks it takes both legal and political aspects and appreciates what anyone can do, what contribution to Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence reform. So please, if anyone wants to meet, I'll give them all the documents I have. There is also a decision of the House of Human Rights and it should be read, but we are not a court here, we are Parliament. This unfortunate man was lucky to even be mentioned as a man whose human rights were violated. There are thousands of small people of Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat to whom this applies, but they can't come because they're not appointments. And that's why they're in position until as long as we appoint people who, on that same basis, can dispose of other people's property and I can't really understand any law-based person in 2000 could have entered someone else's apartment, no matter what authority gave it to them. Please be nice, replica. Replica. Well, I've never been as angry as you two are. If you think it's okay, I won't, I don't have anything new to say, I said what I have on the basis of the documents, so I think this is where I need to beat the raids and worry about Bosnia and Herzegovina, not the ones who support it, and now I don't want to talk anymore and go back to '92. I'm sorry I won't do it because I was talking about other generals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13486	Thank you very much. Mr. Izet Hadžić, then Mrs. Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13487	I can't say a few words, and I want us to understand that objectively every single person is a little unfortunate and I'm sorry that an entire programme in the area is to say human rights, return property, we're lucky that people are going to return the property that's been preserved, I don't know what we're going to do for the property that's been mined and where are the damages of billions of marks. That's not what we're talking about. 38 I would ask really present colleagues here, I rarely report, but that we do not bind personal appointments to the problems of this country and that we are now burdening the problem of return of property and now attaching everything to a man who, according to his grades and characteristics, deserves quite all the praise. If you take the place of birth of this unfortunate man who wishes to challenge himself here, for us of course you are not an unfortunate man, but an honorable man, then you see that his entire environment when you return to the past period has been banished, destroyed, etc. I would really like to ask my colleagues to support the Presidency's decision, and if we are ready in the citizens' yneres that these topics should not be about appointments but about our responsible work in Parliament should be put on the agenda and we should contribute. I called first because of this, because of this sentence. In the speech of some colleagues, I recognized more the disrespect of the legal system than the desire to really challenge the candidate and his appointment. It's not good for us. We need to respect the House's decision on human rights, we need to respect laws that are valid and, of course, we need to help people. So it hurts me more than it hurts now. Here is now to say quite accidentally, I know that fellow Špirić well knows that the assignment of the apartment was not carried out by Podžić, nor did he drive the man out of the apartment, nor did he say that he did so would no one support him. It was a free apartment. I'm talking to people in the army, they're always asking who has an apartment free, which is not on the questionnaire to solve their unfortunate housing issue, because probably these people had a settled housing issue on the premises of the entire Yugoslavia. And that's why I'd like to ask you, really, I'd rather put it on and discuss if it takes days for a return to property rights problem, etc. I don't think we're tied to this presidency decision right now. I would like to call really to support the Presidency's decision, because I think we have a commitment to say, we have a summit in Istanbul where we are expected to say one of our steps, we have a European path, and of course these weaknesses, I would like to open up a little if we followed last night's statement by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ombudsman, we see that we have a very large violation of human rights. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13488	Thank you very much, Mr. Hadžić. Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13489	Let me explain to Mr Špirić his quote from, the quotes he made are the conditions under which the House can declare the application acceptable to aneks vi. One of these things was that the application is acceptable to the Federation, not to Bosnia and Herzegovina for the reason that Mr. Vukobrat filed the application against both Bosnia and Herzegovina and against the Federation. The home found that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have a law under which it could receive an apartment, but is the Federation that awarded the apartment to Mr Podžić under the Law on the termination of the law on abandoned dwellings. So he didn't kidnap an apartment like you say, Mr. Špirić, but was assigned to it from a trust fund that the unfortunate man himself invested in, but there was no luck in solving the housing issue. 39 profesor Kunić, he asked for an answer and said that Mr. Vukbrat is the owner of the apartment, I remind you again, the conclusion of the House on the facts set by the House says the House notes that the applicant has not delivered a written ransom contract. The more the applicant admits that he has never concluded such a contract with the former JNA. I ask you, Doctor, do you contract?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13490	I'd like your attention agents and respect your order.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13491	Is the contract in oral form when it comes to real estate value? From this, Dom directed the gentleman to determine whether or not he owned the court proceedings before the country's competent courts, whether or not the payments he made without the written agreement could be admitted and to obtain property. And Mr. Špirić, if it is true that Mr. Vukobrat is once again retired, after being retired as a member of the Yugoslav Army on March 3, 1997, and then once again retired in the RS military, then the least he is in this case is certain, that he is a double pensioner, that he has a pension from the Yugoslav Army and that he has a pension from the RS Fund.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13492	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13493	Your Honor, I couldn't help it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13494	Please, it's a little business intervention, Mr. Kunić, I'm obliged to give it to her. Here you go, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13495	I'm saying that this House's husband looks like a housing commission, an investigative committee, something that estimates the House of Human Rights, something that raises questions about the functioning of the Presidency as a proposing whose material we've received. I, the College, ask that this kind of debate, or that MPs do not put us in a position to appreciate whether something is right or not, relying on some decisions by calling someone unfortunate, etc. I really think the Honorable Chairman of the College that you should either return this point to the promoter, or give the word, if anyone has a Council of Ministers who can explain and give any answers to some dilemmas and questions without putting us in a position to judge whether the House of Human Rights decision or any other decision here is valid or not. I'm sorry, but I really had to intervene. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13496	Thank you very much, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. The word is Mr. Kunić, then I will give the word to the deputy defence minister, Ms. Marina Bendeš, who just arrived and then we will conclude the debate. So I suggest that after the debate is concluded, we take a break before we make a decision on what to do. We have more demands, here's to delay, return, yes. Here we have now from your club Mr. Jusufovic's request to return it to the presidency, right now. Here's what I'm trying to do, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, and I'm treating the Rules of Procedure. Come on, don't. If one point requires five hours, then we accept it takes five hours and let's not now five hours, it'll take as long as it takes for everyone who wants to get a word, a replica to end the debate. And each and every other wheel. That's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13497	Dear President, may I?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13498	Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13499	Like this. I don't know a finding that goes in the direction that someone doesn't respect the human rights decision. I think that's what these findings and findings are all about, which are not legal thinking, probably what the wrongdoers will say in that sense. The decision on human rights shall refer that person to the court. Therefore, the decision has not been made in fact. So I don't know what needs to be done in this decision. That's number one. Number two. This is about gentlemen about the greatest right that can be, it's the right to property. It's a personal right. In this home, especially on the Constitutional Commission, they are constantly filled with the mouth of human rights. This is the first time I've said it in this house. Every legal basis is a title for human rights laws. And that's what we're capable of doing, and sometimes we're insolent. Now, when it comes to fundamental human rights, we are able to talk like this. So this is a fundamental human right, a right to property, a right to citizenship. These are fundamental human rights. The other thing, gentlemen, formally legally looking at this house must be declared individually about each candidate. He can't vote grouply. This is about the appointment of a person, i.e. a single administrative act where an individual act is issued for each person. Therefore, we cannot vote for all three, but we must vote individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13500	Replica Mr. Džaferović, then the debate is still Mr. Duraković, and then we will give the final word to the deputy minister. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13501	Mr. Kunić, I wouldn't go out for a pay phone and this isn't your replica, this is just an attempt to say something about human rights. Don't, please, just a second, it's all in the context of the agenda, it's all part of the agenda. I'm just asking you to take care of Mr. Podžić's human rights then. If today's Parliament makes a decision that does not confirm its appointment, then it is a sanction and a threat to human rights and Mr Podžić and if you are already talking about human rights, then be correct to the end and talk about the human rights of all. Parliament cannot be a court and should not be a court and must not be a court. There is a court, but it is enough for Parliament to have against Mr Podžić no authority and no court has issued an eviction order, and he has not respected it. If this is going to happen, the House of Human Rights has made a decision that did not accept this gentleman's request regarding the apartment. What will be in the future, we today if, if this parliament were to rule in the way individual discussions are going, it would definitely be sanctions for Mr Podžić. When MPs also applied for election officials in the Electoral Law, the condition is therefore that there is no court or competent authority decision to move someone out of the apartment, and he did not respect it within a certain period. That's what judges are called. What's now suddenly the exception when it comes to the general? If Mr. Podžić is appointed and a decision is made in the future, and he has failed to respect him, he should be relieved of his duties as Chief of Staff of the Joint Command. And then it's procedure and then it's respect for human rights. Don't let us sanction and punish a man by heart here today. I say it in my mind in Parliament, because there is no relevant fact that would point to the conclusion that this decision should be made by individuals.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13502	Before Professor Duraković, the replica Mr Špirić made of what Mr Džaferović said. Here you go. Please, let's just stick to the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13503	I'll, of course, be very brief. The Story of Human Rights
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13504	How short, the watch you've been showering us here all day.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13505	Please, Professor, this is what you get a decent salary for.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13506	You won't speak for yourself. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13507	I can do as much as I want, you get a decent salary for this. Nervous people need to go home, and those who want to come have a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13508	Please be nice to hold on to the line, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13509	I'm sorry, you came in, I'm not nervous, and I want to say apro after my colleague Džaferović's discussion of human rights. Anyone can be proposed. We decide whether it passes or not. Does anyone who hasn't passed this House mean that they've threatened the fundamental human right to this. It's not just that. No Niko takes anybody's job, this is an appointment. I'm just asking, is someone going to be politically rewarded for what judicial disputes are in violation of other people's human rights? So that's what I wanted to warn you about. Nothing else. So the man is proposed, and it's up to us whether he passes or won't, and he's not threatened with the right and to pass and not to pass. Human fundamental law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13510	Okay. Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Duraković here, Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13511	I am Špirić, nervous and very nervous because I think this kind of parliamentary practice leads to nothing. We're still on the second item of the agenda, and we haven't even gotten to how we're going to vote yet. Secondly, this house has turned into a courtroom. This parliament has no simple right, and neither do we as MPs to question the decisions of the House of Human Rights, which is the highest judicial authority in this country. Whether she's good or not, it's not ours. Excuse me. You know that in this country, power is shared very clearly in legislative and executive and judicial matters. And this home, or any other home, cannot be converted to assess the validity of a particular judicial solution. That's one. Two needed it right away, I resent you as a College, why you didn't, there were two proposals, I think the first Mr. Zorić said to vote individually on each candidate, and the second was to vote a complete decision as offered by the Presidency. Oh, my Bog. You were supposed to avoid all this nonsense finely put it to the vote right away. How do we vote? With one warning, if those who care clearly care very much about eliminating Mr. Podžić, they think that by individual voting they will achieve their goals – they will not. And then we'll say no in the set. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13512	Thank you very much, Mr. Duraković. Do you want to, Mrs. Bendeš? Do you have needs? The proposer is the Presidency. So I don't know if Mrs. Bendeš can speak on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13513	I thank the chairman. I could speak only on behalf of the defence ministry as a single chain, when it comes to the process of appointing the proposal, it means general positions, i.e. when it comes to respecting the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As, normally, you participated and passed the Bosnia and Herzegovina Defence Act as one of the conditions for joining Bosnia and Herzegovina's Partnership for Peace. In accordance with all the articles and the Law itself, it is clearly defined what the Presidency is doing, what the defence minister is doing, or what we are doing in the Ministry of Defence. By the end of June of the month, we are trying to carry out all those tasks that we have put before us, together with international organisations, when it comes to running for the Partnership for Peace, including the formation of the armed forces, starting from the establishment of the ministry, through the joint headquarters of operational command, to the meaning of the entity ministries. To establish an operational and administrative chain of command, it is very important to place certain positions of certain people. This is why a decision on the formation of the size of the armed forces, which is confirmed by the Presidency, is therefore made, and thus clearly defined positions in that structure, which are general positions. Procedure, I don't know if I'm going to repeat myself, but here, let me try to be as brief as possible. So the procedure was that the entity ministries in front meant the Ministry sent a memo in which they proposed a number of candidates, officers to certain positions. So with a certain act in accordance with the criteria clearly defined, according to the SFRO commander's instructions to the SFOR party, i.e. the commander. The obligation of all those persons proposed by the entity minister to any Federation army, or the Republika Srpska Army, is that, in addition to their personal statements, they are subject to no judicial proceedings against them, etc. etc. which, by doing so, plus reporting on the financial situation, i.e. the property card which they in the armies are obliged to meet once a year. So these should be indicators to the ministers themselves, whether the RS military, or the Federation military, that the persons they run are moral, clean, that no court proceedings are conducted against them and that they can go into proceedings. The procedure is respected and we now mean we already have three plus three candidates who should be appointed as soon as possible. It means the parliamentary procedure is over. Today, six more names have gone to the Presidency when it comes to general positions. I think that in this House, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency itself, and certainly Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is in the interest that as soon as we respect it, it means the very position of certain persons in certain positions that we consider to be honorable 44 will behave in those duties. I can only say and invite you MPs, or parliamentarians, to give your voice to the people who have passed both the ministry procedure and the verification procedure by the SFOR commander, because I think that this procedure has checked and all that why we are on this last joint committee, in fact you members of that, and the commission of both homes mean and concluded that there have been certain deficiencies in the process of verifying, but I think in the last report that, here I am now having, the commander of the SFRO made it clear that they have tightened the verification measures, respecting and seriousness of certain sources of information. Not when it comes to now these mentioned means candidates, but those who will come to you in the next debate. That's it. That's it. If there are any questions I'm willing to answer as far as the Ministry of Defense is concerned. I only ask you to give your vote for these candidates that as soon as possible we have the position of all persons, officers in general positions in order for the system of operational administrative when it comes to the defence ministry, when it comes to the BiH Armed Forces to function as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13514	Thank you very much. No more reports. It's a closed debate. So now we really should all be responsible for seeing what we're doing on this matter. We had a proposal, two proposals, so here, to plead individually and on the whole of the list. The third proposal is the proposal by Mr Križanović, who I will read, which I received in writing, that due to the absence of the proposing under point 2, a delay on the plea in the House of Representatives on this matter is proposed. Mr. Križanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13515	Here I have suggestions from my colleagues that the promoter has come. I wrote this proposal an hour ago, and if, with the full respect of Madam Deputy Minister, I do not consider this to be an explanation of the proposal but a final word after the discussion. I formulated the proposal for a conclusion for the reason that the debate had already taken place during the search for some clarifications that we could not get from anyone at that time. And now, because of the conclusion that we will adopt, or the report under point 11 and the relations of the BiH Presidency towards this House and the dignity of this House, I am formulating that conclusion and I am staying and I am asking that the House actually declare this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13516	Thank you very much. So we have the first proposal, first Mr. Križanović's proposal came, then Mr. Zorić, and then we'll take that order. So I'm going to read Mr. Joza Križanović's proposal one more time. In the absence of a proposal under point 2 I propose a postponement of the House of Representatives' statement after confirming the list of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions. 45 I ask the MPs to now declare by voting on Mr Križanović's proposal. Please, please, the representative is 38 in the hall. Is there a request for a re-election? Please, no, I didn't ask for a check, there's a request for a re-election, that's different. Please come forward again, there are 38 people who think their voice didn't go. Vote now. Please, I'm setting a five-minute recess and consulting within the College. Have you taken your seats? [[PAUZA]] I have two suggestions so here they are. I'll put them still after the consults and the Rules of Procedure and all, in order as they came. That means we'll make a statement on both proposals. So all proposals will be put to the vote. I was warned that Mr Zorić's proposal had arrived earlier compared to the gentleman's proposal, it does not exclude one another, we will make clear on both proposals. I'm asking the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13517	Can we just get all the MPs in, one second, two minutes, please call the MPs, it's the vote that counts.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13518	..cards please, because there were some technical ones. I would like to ask the MEPs to make a statement on Mr Vink Zorić's proposal to declare ourselves individually on the list of candidates for general positions. Please vote now. I ask the MPs to plead on Mr Križanović's proposal, I read it in writing, to postpone the plea at the House of Representatives, vote now. Mr. Križanović's proposal was accepted with 19 votes in favour of, 17 against, 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority, to postpone a statement on a list of candidates for general positions in BiH's joint defence institutions due to the lack of presence. It doesn't say when, but I think we have to count on it to be the next session. Thank you very much. I'm now setting up a lunch break and other representatives' activities until 1400 hours. Thank you very much. /PAZA/ 46.. third item of the agenda, that's A.3. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Accounting and Audit of BiH following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 105. The proposal for this law with a request for a procedure under Article 105 was submitted to us in 1405 and was forwarded to you on the same day. I am opening a debate on the request of the Council of Ministers for Procedure under Article 105. Mr. Beriz Belkić, then Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13519	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I know that we are now discussing the procedure but in order for the Party of BiH MPs' club to decide easier, I am taking my right to ask the two, three questions, and if possible clarifications. Maybe we didn't understand that very well. In point 5 of Article 2 of the standards to be adopted by Europeans, etc. and pensions are implemented in BiH, budgets and budget users are excluded. Therefore, public spending and will be applied until the publication of international standards for governments and the public sector, domestic regulations. What regulations do you mean here? Is it just this review bill, because we don't have the Accounting Act, we don't have this law, we don't have that. What kind of regulations are we thinking about? That's the first question. Furthermore, in terms of terms, it is said that the professional body is an NGO, etc., so the concept of a professional body is taken over, but in the text later, some mention of the concept of professional association is also mentioned. Is that the same term, or are those two different organizations? So professional body and professional association? And the last question, in Article 5(3), Article 9(4), Article 11(4), is described, it is written, to define what is illegal under this law. No sanctions, what does that mean? In what way will something declared illegal by law be sanctioned? I would only ask you to explain this to us, so that we may be able to say this, otherwise, about the procedure and the content, and in principle we support the need to adopt this law absolutely, regardless of some of the solutions that we will talk about when we discuss content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13520	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. The word is Mr Špirić, if anyone, on behalf of the Proposer, or the Honorable Minister, Mrs Marić, wishes, can come to the phone. Next up, Mr. Špirić, Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, on charges. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13521	Mr President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Parliament, I know that long in BiH activities are being conducted to reach the Bill on Accounting and Auditing of BiH, it was perhaps, I am the longest perhaps familiar with these ideas, there were two years of different political debates. I have tried at this time, when I received the law, to check, I am pleased that everyone in BiH is in charge, we have had the strength to reach agreement and consensus, to come to the bill, and it is good that the Council of Ministers has requested that this law be discussed according to Article 105. Of course, it is not an ideal legal project, as other legal projects are not ideal, but if we adopt the procedure of Article 105 today and come to the Law on Accounting and Audit of BiH, of course in the time ahead, there will be a possible procedure for changing members whom colleagues think they are not good or that they are not the best. So, in that sense, I want to say that I'm looking forward to that there was no cry on the side that there might be something that could be particularly controversial, and in that sense I want to say that I will also give my support for Article 105's procedure, but also for the law itself. and it is good today to create a mood for BiH to finally reach an important legal project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13522	Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13523	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is not a more detailed area for me to deal with, but I must say, I know the environment, the conditions in which we are here and we are considering not only the matter of procedure, but also the content of this law. We know the necessity, the need for its adoption as quickly as possible, etc. I can't, however, not realize here, that what's our old story, when it comes to the texts of the law, we're not rarely, and this time we're going to seem to miss the laws that should be clearer, more precise in many segments, of course by looking at experiences and others that help us to come up with innovation in legislation. So, we neglect our homework to say this, experience, our home experiences, experts, etc. It should simply be said that we are under constant press and pressure to pass laws as soon as possible, now exclusively looking at the aspect of the legal profession if you will, we are able to sometimes pass vague laws. That's all I came out to say. To be aware that we need to pass the law as soon as possible, we seem consciously to enter into it, that we will pass a law that in many or some segments is a bar, not precise enough, clear enough, etc. It's the price of looking at these dynamics, but I'd like to really try, I have here some expert, expert opinions that question some aspects of this law but that should also be considered with due attention, both in this House and this, in general, in the professional public. I conclude, therefore, I will not be against this procedure and against the law, but I felt the need to say, that it is indeed a source that, once possible, this, more meaningful and more substance, we are also accessing procedures in order to preserve the dignity of this, the rules that we are making, including this Parliament, not only on this issue, but also on a number of others. Thank you very much. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13524	I thank Mr. Ćeman. The word is Mrs. Ruža Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13525	I think it is undeniable to discuss how important this law is and how necessary it is, specifically in uniting economic space in BiH. However, it seems to me that the procedure of 105th and the law of the 5th month could have been followed by 104, so that some things could still be improved in this law that I think is at least important. Mr. Belkić asked a few questions that I wanted to ask, but I would ask additional questions. Since this law justifies one commission that will be permanent, which will be very important, somehow it seems to me to be a commission that will have its own director, will have its statutes, will have its own internal acts, giro-accounts, revenues, so it will be one legal body, and nowhere is it defined here, as it will be organisational, as it will be the organisational form of that legal body. Whether it's going to be an institution, whether it's going to be some kind of administration or something, which I'm holding to make it stand in this law. Second, it's not even the seat of it. Maybe it's just that one of our wild debates that we've been having, and I'm holding the same thing that should be standing here. Thirdly, it was not said either, and I will be open about the national structure of that commission, which I again hold that it should all be the one regulated in this law, because these are three elements that significantly define this commission, and the Commission has very important tasks and it will be very, very important in the future way not only to implement these standards of accounting and audit standards, but also to develop qualifications that will again be important in the economy tomorrow. In addition to this, if we get some answers, as Mr Belkić has set up, I am ready to vote on Article 105, but I think a 104 could fix something important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13526	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Novaković has the word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13527	Dear colleagues, what is certainly here to greet, means in this law, is the introduction of unique standards. So that's something, which ultimately seems to me to be the basis of this whole project, and on that side, I think that those members are defined to the extent that is acceptable to the Serbian Democratic Party Club. 49 We are also at the thought of Mrs Sopta that the status of this committee has not been sufficiently defined. So, he's not completely defined and maybe that's what the law should have done. But we are also fully aware that the Council of Ministers' request is a member of 105, not 104, and that not adopting this project can lead to some other consequences. That is why the Serbian Democratic Party Club will support the adoption of this law, but I also call on Mrs Sopta to propose amendments and additions to laws that, if they go in the direction she spoke, will have the support of the SDS Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13528	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Križanović. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13529	Here, I want to start by saying, that I support the adoption of this law and that I would not repeat what my colleagues and fellow Sopta have stated, as an observation to the indeterminate nature of this text, indicates only one of these, poor practices, that we, in this time-consequented environment, will have to make very often the law to be passed in haste. And I don't mind that either, but I'd like to draw the attention of the Council of Ministers as a legislator of these laws to make more effort at precision, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13530	Please, is there any
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13531	to make more efforts on the accuracy and clarity of the definition of the bill, in particular when it comes to the procedure referred to in Article 105. I am, apart from these remarks made by colleagues and colleagues, also not clear to me, how the commission, or commission proposed here as one of the central bodies for the implementation of this law, ensures the obligation to apply the single accounting standards in BiH. I have the impression that the point and most of the law are concentrated on the certification of accountants. I'm going to join my colleagues who are thinking in this sense that it's useful to pass this law, so I'm going to continue if it needs to be done urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13532	I thank Mr. Križanović. There are no more applications for discussion. ministrica marić, here you go, Mrs. Marić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13533	I welcome you all and accept really these remarks that you have made, especially knowing who is speaking them, knowing the profession of people who are speaking in this way. The law had a name at the beginning of the Framework Law on Refistion and Accounting, so we then assured each other that there was no Framework Law in BiH, that it must be called the Law on Accounting and Refision of BiH. The concept of the framework would be very good in this 50 case because it would then be a little more clear to all of us that it is really a framework within which the existing situation in BiH should be framed which is nevertheless important for the territory of BiH. By applying the entity's regulations absolutely apply to entities, Brcko also has a certain part of the rules and now it was necessary to do harmonisation in a way that we go forward, that we all say it in Article 5. That's what we have in common, that's what we need, which brings us closer to Europe, and that's why we all agreed together that it's something that will unite us, unite us, we'll go after it. We became aware of the meaning, we had different legal regulations, we had different ways of training and for studying the economy, etc. People for accountants, people for auditors. There was a great differentiation from the training programme, from who conducts the training, from the prices, etc. It was meant to even this law, this is a very significant initial step in which the accounting profession would get its incentive to look further at everything that bothers her in her work, that means identifying what she will use, who will do it, that will train people, by which programs, and then only certain people who get a license to do it will be able to train people, give those certificates, take them, be in one place the register, we'll all know who that is. We'll see how we apply the diplomas that come from abroad. At some point, our accounting diplomas will also be able to be used outside by auditors. So that was one idea, one whole that was in front of all of us when we started doing this law. As far as this concept of professional body and association is concerned, this is a translation, I've read it a little better. In essence, existing associations, there is the Association of Accountants and Auditors of the Federation of BiH and RS as associations, there is the Institute for Accounting and Audit of the Federation and similar to one institute or does not matter in RS. So, here when we say that this commission will be formed, it will be supervised and funded by the International Community for a period of 6 months that we will have one foreign advisor to help BiH, these associations, these our institutions select these people into one governing body and then when we talk about why and how the law will apply. This law, although there are no criminal provisions, because this is the first stage and I don't think they could have installed criminal provisions in this law, means but a little by little, we can do immediate changes and additions and add criminal provisions, but the point in me is, that the law begins to live, to ensure the application of accounting and audit standards, practices throughout the territory is equal. You know, how many foreign companies we have with us, what it's like for banks to do, say, a report for Rafaisen Bank for Vienna, how this consolidation is done, whether it's based in Banja Luka or its headquarters in Sarajevo. There are many problems in life that this accounting of the present and the revision could not overcome. There are companies from abroad doing audits, and then there are different reports, etc. All of this when you take one after another, this means one very important but first step, because this practice that has been achieved so far has been more positive in some part of one, in one of the others, will have to be uniformed. And when it is said, it is a financial report, whoever made it in BiH for whoever made it, has the same meaning, in the same way must be read. It's important to us now. You see how much trouble we've had for the review, regarding the public sector. We will now make an effort and only under this law and get permission as BiH and the money to translate international standards related to government 51 accounting. We don't have permission to do that. We can't be a member of... (Effect)...no one gives it to us. Member States may not be members of the International Association of Accountants. To overcome all of this now, the prevailing means that I suggest that this law is really an emergency that finally this profession gets its own special initial now here at the unification of the profession and then that we unite here in these reports that ultimately the unique economic space is experiencing them here in the accounting profession. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13534	I thank Minister Marić. Mr. Petar Kunić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13535	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry you haven't seen me before. Thank you for giving me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13536	It's all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13537	Acceptable this discussion by Minister Marić, however, a question arises in this house, a question that hangs over us all the time. Article 3 shall the Commission be established by a special international adviser appointed in accordance with a member? Are we introducing a forced administration in all segments? This parliament must be determined once. What's that? Is our level such that we are not able to manage these things on our own? Does this, personally offend my dignity, my identity as an MP. I can't accept that. I can't accept that. Unable to accept management on, taking segment by segment. Why does a stranger have to be, he is not to advise, but he appoints the forming of a special international that is in accordance with... So please nice, so where are we, are we in Biafra? I'm really, really embarrassed to sit in these lines and accept something like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13538	Thank you very much, Mr. Kunić. The word was again sought by Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13539	Asked questions and I must say that the answer that many in life problems satisfy us and we will vote for....law. You say there's a lot of trouble in life. Thank you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13540	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We're pleading procedure. Mrs. Sopta, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13541	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question, does it matter if this law goes according to Article 4. I just hinted that he's going after Article 104. I've just hinted at a few things that are very important. There is a foreign space for the amendment to act on both timing, and on the contents of some who are, I think it would be very important if, if this law could go according to Article 104, if it didn't significantly disrupt the one, something in our approach. Here I am holding that he's headed for 104 to be in the process by now, maybe by the end because he's come here a long time ago, and here, I'd like to pray.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13542	Thank you. We have been asked here to make a statement under Article 105, we did not have a different opinion from the promoter, and we declare that we are considering this law in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. I can only say that I appreciate this debate, the contributions and we must also respect what the Minister has said and the obligations towards the feasibility of study 16 conditions, and the possibility of the adoption of the law can ask for its amendments and additions and work. And I think that's one whole of the approach and that this discussion that was from the MPs today is really going to be used to improve, but objectively now we have to plead on this. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the Council of Ministers' request, to consider the draft law on accounting and audit of BiH under Article 105, I apologize, I will ask you once again to vote now. With 31 votes in favour of, 4 against, 1 abstention, we also accepted enough entity majority, we accepted the Council of Ministers' request that this Bill on Accounting and Audit be considered in accordance with Article 105. We move to a debate on the law itself, or I'm opening a debate now that we know that this is an article 105, no amendments, but here are the reported, Mr. Zorić,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13543	I listened to all those things they talked about earlier, and I heard the minister answering questions. The questions were quite clear to me, and I did not hear the answers to those questions, especially some important questions for me. But right now, I want to say it here and ask all of us if we're going to be this generous if here's a colleague of Novaković's earlier mention if Mrs. Sopta offers changes and complements the article 105. If we're going to be like this, generous as we see it up here on this display. So, if we're going to say so, even though Mrs. Sopta didn't offer the best 53 solutions, let's accept it because it's a very important law. I believe we won't. So this is a very good thing to do, and then it's a matter of urgency. It's not clear to me, but when I answered, that I get 5-6 laws every week under Article 105. Then I don't understand why I get the laws and always write in the bottom the article of the Bill on Accounting and Review of BiH in brackets of three language variants and an electronic version. What does three language variants mean? Why doesn't it say three languages? Or the law in three languages and the electronic version. I voted against the procedure for a principled reason, but I'll back the law, I'll just see if we are, are we going to be in the event that one of us submits 105th by the same law of amendment and supplementation, are we going to accept 105th? And I hold you to my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13544	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Is there any more reports to be discussed? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We are now declaring ourselves on the Law on the Proposal for a Law on Accounting and Audit of BiH under Article 105. I'm asking the MPs to make a statement about this law. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 35 votes in favour of, 2 against, no one abstention, and enough entity majority, has adopted the draft law on accounting and audit of BiH. I'm advocating the MPs. Moving to point four, that's Add.4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Act on the Suspension of Suspension of the Application on the basis of executive decisions on the burden of the budget of the BiH institutions, in accordance with Article 104. It was therefore a request from the Proposer to adopt procedures under Article 104, due to the necessity of changing and moving deadlines. So today we're pleading for procedure. I'm opening the debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I would like to ask the House of Representatives to make a statement by voting on the request of the Council of Ministers that the proposal for this law be classified in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. I find that the House of Representatives unanimously with 35 votes in favour, accepted the Council of Ministers' request that the proposal for a law amending the Act on the temporary postponement of the application on the basis of executive decisions on the burden of the BiH institutions' budget be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Thank you very much. Moving to the fifth point is 54 Ad.5. Request by the Council of Ministers for examination of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH pursuant to Article 105. This is a request, because we have two requests to be precise, it's changed, so here it refers to the Council of Ministers' request No. 0102-2-7-3/05 of 18.05. In 2004. I just want to inform you here that there was one amendment from Mr. Lagumdžija to this law, but that this is about procedure 105, there is no amendment phase. I am opening a debate on a request for a procedure under Article 105 means a request for an emergency procedure. Anybody want some? Thank you very much. We plead to the procedure, so o, Mr. Križanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13545	Mr Chairman, if we look after this point, the next request from the Council of Ministers for Review also comes under Article 105. Proposal for a law amending the Law also on customs tariffs. I think that we would have had a case unique in the world, that the government of a single country, submitted to Parliament a request to discuss and adopt the bill, watch out for two laws on amendments and additions to the same law, the same day. And we would be a single Parliament if we did. I've never seen this in the world that there's such a thing. And I won't say anything else, it's about the procedure and later I'll talk about the bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13546	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanović. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13547	So it's not hard to agree that these issues should be resolved as soon as possible, but really the same day, two of the same laws change through two different proposals and legally and logically and logically it's illogical to say so. But, uh, I say again, I won't be against this, I'll support this. However, I know that this law is in preparation and that we will later, hopefully at least talk about, if we can't change anything in it, there are suggestions to reconsider and some customs rates that also concern the automotive industry from production programs, let's say, the company in the municipality of Teshanj, at which there was no understanding. I would like to point out here and appeal that, at the very least, here in the follow-up to the observation and analysis of this issue, since this is now a matter of procedure, just to say it is illogical to consider two laws, or two proposals relating to the same law, the same customs tariff, the same day. But here we are full of precedents, so let this be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13548	There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. 55 I ask the MPs to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider this Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff of BiH pursuant to Article 105. Please vote now. For 29, against 2.6 abstentions, enough entity majority, we have accepted the Council of Ministers' request that this proposal be considered in accordance with Article 105. Now it's a matter of law. Is anyone answering for a hearing? He's not answering. Mrs. Sopta, please. Mr. Križanović, Mr. Belkić, these have been reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13549	I thank Mr. Chairman, here I thought I would not answer for the discussion, but since the minister came in in the meantime, I had one question, or I had a parliamentary question that would be crucial for me to vote on this amendment proposal. In fact, maybe two months ago, I had a parliamentary question about the effects of the Council of Ministers' decisions which, in fact, determined the rate. They were releases after customs payments on these items. If Mr. Minister now has the information to explain and tell us what the effects were in the budget, that is, on the budget of the decisions so far? Then maybe I'll take my stand on the vote. This is how I'm gonna be restrained.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13550	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13551	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I will also be very brief. In this article, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, in the column of the quota, stands the amount of thought of 200 pieces, noting that these parts will be built into new cars. I think it would be a good idea to delete that quota, and be able to fully say importing such parts in such a way as to say sending a message to potential investors in BiH that it would benefit such a customs rate. Of course, there should be firm, secure mechanisms for these parts to end where they are designed to build new cars. Here, that would be my remark, and I think that otherwise we'll be able to discuss each session of the new 105 proposals, and we're constantly upgrading this Customs Tariff Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13552	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Mr. Belkić. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13553	Here I am also going to ask a question but I wish I didn't get a similar answer earlier if there were a lot of problems in life. So, is this law that we are now discussing and the law within the next point has passed the procedure provided for by the Law on the Administration of Direct Taxation or more precisely, whether the Management Board has considered these two proposed amendments and Mr Križanović has asked a few questions, but you were not on behalf of the Proposer, why the same law was two amendments to the specific rules, why these were not amendments to the single amendment of the law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13554	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Before I give my word to the Minister, there is another representative, Mr Jusufović, please welcome Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13555	No microphone turned on Can I have one, too, to wait for the minister
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13556	Well, that was my suggestion to Mr. Jusufović, and you don't accept it, so when I suggest otherwise, here's the minister, I thank Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13557	I'll also have one quick question. There are these points of the agenda where I don't really understand the matter, and then I have some dilemmas, and I'd like to always vote to be clear. The Minister's question. Could it happen that these import quotas can be used for other purposes or in other ways than the use of new cars? If it is to use the production of new cars, then I agree with Mr. Križanović that there is no need for a restriction at all. But that's why I'm asking, isn't it clear to me if there's a way to say, manipulating certain people? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13558	Thank you, Mr. Jusufović. Here you go, Mr. Doko.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13559	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, I have to apologize at first because I didn't know that this item of the agenda would, therefore, be at this session today, but I'm familiar with the material and I can answer your questions. I'd go in a row. 57 Representative Ruža sopta, the honourable representative, asked a question, and we have today set out a proposal for an answer on the issue at the Council of Ministers' meeting. So in that answer there are also these amounts that I really don't know about, and I can't tell you what the amounts are about, I believe that at the next session you'll get a chance to be familiar with specific amounts. As far as other questions are concerned, why are these two points, since the next one is similar, it is only the same as these meat categories, referred together, it is that the Council of Ministers sent these two proposals at separate sessions, and if you remember that this proposal was even under this Article 139, where we requested an extraordinary or special session of the House of Representatives to make a statement on this matter. And these are the reasons that led to the separation of these two points, and the fact is that it's practically the same matter absolutely, so here it can be quite accidentally here to discuss exactly the same session of these two points. As for the Management Board and the Management Board, I must say that we have had a lot of conversations about the functioning of the Management Board. The Council of Ministers has appointed other members of the Management Board and, given the moment at which we are located, the Management Board has meetings. We therefore sent a letter of opinion, asking for the opinion of the Management Board for the proposed amendments and additions to the Customs Tariff Act, which we have not yet received. In all the talks I have had so far, and I have made it clear at Parliament's session last time, that the Council of Ministers has jurisdiction over policymaking in this sector. The indirect tax administration is a lower authority of the executive authority and is mainly responsible for the implementation of these documents. So for the implementation of regulations within these laws and from that point of view, they should make the most of the contribution. So as for this part, why the quota, why 2,000, so this is just an amendment to the Customs Tariff Act called the quota. There we have to put some quotas on non-contigents and here it's about 2,000 vehicles, because these are the spare parts, here I said spare parts, but actually the parts are used exclusively for the purpose of making vehicles, not to be used as spare parts. There was information that if we release this category of goods from customs, it is a customs rate of 5 and 10% depending on whether these are SKDs or CKD assemblies, then we will have a situation that many spare parts are imported under that label, and in this way we can in the implementation part together with the Administration control, control the implementation of this decision and this law in a way that knows exactly how many vehicles it takes. So it can't happen now that it's imported into, say, these groups of parts that aren't going to be built into these vehicles. So that's kind of if we can say normative. It is known what is going on in which a vehicle and more than one of these assemblies should not be imported, would be considered a spare part and then automatically charged for customs and all other duties. Furthermore, in the proposal to amend and supplement this law, when it comes to the SKD and the CKD assemblies, we had one problem that was related to the temporary duration of this decision. This has always been regulated by decisions so far and has lasted for a very long, almost four years or a great period for which this privilege has been used and on this side it is questionable to make legal grounds for making these decisions. In this way, by amending 58 and by supplementing the law, the legal basis for making such decisions is firm, there is and so it would be removed from that part of the temporary. That would be the clarifications to this point. I don't know if I've answered all the questions, but here I apologize to the MPs for not being able to answer your question specifically about how much the budget is in this case... less is damaged whether, if you may say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13560	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I think it was useful. Mr. Belkić still asked for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13561	So I just want to comment, or to tell Mr. Minister, that I do not accept an explanation of the position of the Management Board of indirect taxation. I will remind you of the letter which you, Mr. Chairman, have received from the High Deputy, or OHR, where we are warned of this procedure. Why am I calling on this? For a simple reason, they are the authors of the law, their people, experts are authors of the Law on Direct Taxation Administration, where it is clearly indicated that any amendment and addition and adoption of a new Customs Tariff Act etc. must be approved by the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Administration. So you don't have the approval of the Management Board of indirect taxation. I mean, that's,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13562	Sir, hello, Mr. Belkić, Mr. Doko.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13563	Here, I'll try to make an explanation. We are when we propose this law which was proposed by foreign experts and it is true that it was done in the English version of this text, nowhere in the English version does it mean that the Urava must approve. There's a flow when it comes to translation into our languages, then mentioning that exact term and on that side, uh, there's different interpretations. I've had conversations with Mr. Hejs about this particular letter and this position, and we've talked about it in a way that if the Administration has such responsibilities as direct responsibilities and the Ministry and the Council of Ministers, then it should bear the responsibilities of the Ministry and the Council of Ministers. They are always asked by the Council of Ministers or the Ministry to take that responsibility, meaning that it proposes certain measures, and someone else there is the one who has to approve it, the complete indifference in that case simply the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Foreign Trade has no authority or responsibility. We do not accept such a position, we have said our opinion directly in these talks together with the Council of Ministers chairman, and there is an open question, given that the administration has really not yet come to life, that it is not yet functioning. There's a lot, I'm not going to be here now, which areas, where the administration could and should be able to function as soon as possible and this, from the EUR, EUR one forms, for example. This is where they should make their contribution, and as regards the proposed amendments and additions to the law, these are the direct competences of the ministries, the Council of Ministers and the Assembly, certainly. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13564	Thank you very much. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13565	There are many misunderstandings and bullets regarding the interpretation of certain legal provisions. Can I discuss it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13566	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13567	The interpretation given by the Registrar's Minister for Direct Taxation, I once again read this letter from the OHR, which reminds us of possible illegality in the procedures concerning changes to the rules concerning various fees, taxes and taxes, customs duties, etc., and here says Article 25 of the Law, that all initiatives launched by anyone, so the Resord Ministry or the Authorised Proposer, may, say Parliament or MP, be required to pass this procedure which the Management Board has to lead. But this was just one reminder, any violation of these provisions goes to someone else, but I have something else. I will remind you that the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs, I assume that the minutes have been delivered to all, held on 27 May, a meeting at which she discussed the proposal for a law which, in its own time, I, as an authorised MP, also proposed in the procedure and which was referred after the statement, namely the refusal of the procedure to the Council of Ministers to give its opinion. The Council of Ministers has made some decision to refer this proposal to one of the proposings, hence the mandated proposings to the Resor Ministry and to take into account the proposals drawn up in the document. I suppose that this proposal that we have before us is the result of the interrelationship and that someone, let's just say some joint proposal, but I just want to say that you're now procedurally alive in the procedure of my bill, which we don't really have here in front of us right now, but I know that my proposal didn't contain quotas. Whether these other items are identical, I don't know, but I would ask only the Minister one question indeed. When it comes to SKD assemblies, for example, those proposals relating to meat tariff codes. I really don't think there is a need for quotas, and there is probably some reason why the ministry or the promoter has managed the quotas, which is likely to be an answer to the question of colleagues of Križanović, or a remark on why it may not be possible and in the procedure, since 105th is to adopt the amendment of counterpart Lagumdžija who has proposed that quotas be thrown out. There's probably a reason. I don't really know him, so I'd like to ask before any statement, why quotas? Could we have gone to the SKD kits, unlike other proposals, e.g. concerning meat, for which there is probably a reason to define a certain amount of contigent, quantitative contigence, whether we could go to SKD assemblies without quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13568	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13569	Of course, with one note that my bill is still in the process.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13570	Here's Mrs. Sopta, maybe before Mr. Doko is, so if you're looking for her, here's Mrs. Sopra. I'm asking the minister to be patient so he doesn't get out very often.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13571	I thank you once again, Mr. Chairman, but since I didn't get an answer to that question, I would now ask a few questions to draw some conclusions. First of all, is this about 28 thousand vehicles because we have 14 times 2,000, secondly, does this apply to the whole year 2004 and third, since the explanation says that the effects are 2% that the budgets from customs revenues will be reduced by about 2%, does this mean the customs revenues planned for 2004 in total or perhaps some other segment of 2004?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13572	Thank you very much. Would you like to see Mrs. Palavrić before the minister? Or you'll wait, Mr. Doko.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13573	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs, so they don't realize that we ministers' ministries and council are quite rigid, so in our positions we have permanent discussions, of course, regarding the interpretations of the Law on indirect taxation, given that it directly puts some members of all other laws in some lower proportions in terms of the subject that it deals with, I'm going to introduce you, and I think I said that, but here, specifically, this month, we sent a letter to the Directorate for indirect taxation and to the Management Board to give an opinion on the proposed amendments to the law. To date, the fact is we haven't got the answer, and here's the information. So as for this question again about whether or not this part could have been avoided here to go over the odds, maybe I didn't say well enough in that first one of my exits, that this is about the assemblies that are going to be installed into 2,000 vehicles. So, first of all, all the manufacturers that make these, these vehicles can run evenly. If you remember very much about this law for FAUWAY so he calculated that it was only done because of FAUWAY, the fact that these changes are now of course every 61 can apply, ask for one part of those quotas, but must meet certain conditions. So it must have certain conditions with the reputed firms, etc. Why 2,000? So let's just say, the simplest way is because these changes and additions of the law are going to be able to introduce 2,000 drivers, that we're not talking about 2,000 hoods, 2,000 engines, or 2,000 exactly of those parts that are going to be installed into new vehicles. Four thousand won't be able to be introduced and they'll be spare parts later. If I could answer now it was a case that they had completely, completely freely imported all the parts and no control was meant whether that part really ended up in that vehicle that concluded or was the part that was later sold and as a spare part, which is really not the intention of this decision. As for the bill proposed and proposed by Azra Hadžiahmetović, this refers to the amendment proposal. So that's something else again. That's where the rates change. So these rates of 5 and 10 are, the proposal is to be 0 and in that case we have views and entity ministries that we do not go selectively into such activities, to prepare one whole material. You remember, we had formed one working group or commission that proposed amendments and additions to the Customs Tariff Act right in that part, changes in rates and I can inform Parliament that there were so many interventions and so much material, and so much has been reduced that the budget of both entities would, since these are entity budgets, have been significantly weakened, and especially because of the application of the Free Trade Agreement, you know how much the drop in income in the budget that BiH could practically not allow one such law. About the amount issue again. Here I'm not going to say that this is random, but still, I happen to have this material and the answer, it's pretty big to read it, but there's one table that says it's total meaning, the amount related to the release of these sets based on these decisions is 1,733.599 whether, now we have years and I'd still be praying that this is complex material, is not direct, that you wait for it to get that answer in writing. I think that's better, thanks to your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13574	I thank Mr. Doki. Mr. Adem Huskić. Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13575	Thank you very much. I want to say an opinion on two things. We already have a second session of problems with the Management Board of indirect taxation. I want to say that I do not want to be a hostage of the Board of Directors for indirect taxation, neither I in the Parliamentary Assembly nor think it should be the Council of Ministers. And when we voted the Law on an indirect taxation system, we made it clear when it was that unscathed translation, that this Management Board was making decisions on customs policy and tariffs, that we said that this Management Board was merely proposing to the Council of Ministers of Rates and Changes, etc. 62 What I would suggest is that we initiate general responsibility for not implementing the Law on the indirect taxation system, because the Management Board has a legal personality over all of our regulations. So, what it does there, why this Management Board doesn't work, the Director can't affect it. We know that the Management Board consists of entity finance ministers and State Minister of Treasury and Finance and other members have been elected and I ask that the issue be raised. Our mission is not only to adopt laws, but to call upon these gentlemen to do their job. Until then, it's no excuse for us not to do the same. I propose that we accept the Council of Ministers' proposals both at 5 and at 6 points with one suggestion. I propose to the Council of Ministers because I sincerely hope that the law will be passed under paragraph 5 and paragraph 6, that legally, after this session, both of these laws will be united in one, so as to direct them to the House of Peoples so that we do not have any confusion when two laws are published in the same Official List, we would not know what is the application. So, I think that all assumptions have been met for both one law and another and that we should support the Council of Ministers' proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13576	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Huskić. Are there any more reported? No, no, no, no, Huskić, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13577	After I'm done with the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13578	No, after you've completed the hearing, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13579	I'd like to make one of my own thoughts. I'm not so sure I understand what it says. I'd like to ask the minister to explain how many total cars can be located in these parts? In my opinion, 28 grand. I don't know, here I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13580	Okay, the question is yours. Thank you very much. Would you like some more, Mr. Doko?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13581	So I'm going to try to answer, so the proposal itself in the text is 2,000 of those odds, that's 2,000 vehicles. I'm going to give the information maybe this one, is significant that you do know that, until now, that quota has been of approximately 4,000, pure information. So from an opportunity of 4,000 vehicles, new vehicles are exclusively complete. So this decision would be now at 2 and then, half a year later probably go to 2 or 6 if the need for these quotas had arisen. So now it's about 2,000 vehicles. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13582	Thank you, once again, Mr. Huskić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13583	Here it says, this first part of 8703 that's what the petrol cans would tell me, so then you have up to 1,000 cubics this 1 and 2, you have the first degree of resolution and the second degree of resolution. The first degree of resolution of 2,000, the second degree of resolution of 2,000, that's 4,000. that's up to 1,000 cubics, and then 1,000 to 1500 cubics, the same thing. That's another 4, so from 1500 to 3,000 cubics again, that's another 4 and every time 4, that's 7 times 4, and then you have these diesels.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13584	Here's another explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13585	Here's an explanation. I'd be happy if it were 14 grand or as far as you said it might be, the fact is again whether the data from last year is that we've used two numbers so far. The information is that, only two numbers have been used so far because it is still limited types of vehicles. You know you don't complete all the vehicles here. It's a few vehicles, you know, and of course if there was a need for an even greater number, we'd be lucky to intervene and then extend that decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13586	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's another Mr. Špirić, even though the debate was closed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13587	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to take part in the debate of course, I'll give my stand by voting, but here are the dilemmas. We know what the problem exists, that it is a factory that employs domestic people and we help owners export these vehicles outside BiH and one is what is in BiH, and the other is what is sold outside BiH. We're here helping people make huge money but also to hire a part of the people, and that's where these differences are hidden. So the vehicles that are located in BiH don't end up just on the BiH market, as far as I know. I don't know if I'm wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13588	Thank you very much. I'm the one who concluded the argument. I think we've got enough quality, I'd say clarifications from Mr. Secretary. As regards the positions of the Management Board for indirect taxation, the correct explanation is that the Council of Ministers should take responsibility for proposing legal solutions, while the complete system is not functioning. I think that's correct from their side. Niko one prevents the Management Board from talking to us, working, proposing and expecting to communicate with both the Council and building a system that will be functional. And I suggest we make a statement about the law now. 64 We have declared the meaning of the procedure, now we declare the law. I ask the House MPs to declare on the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act, No 0102-0207-03/05 of 18.05.2004, Vote now. With 23 votes for, 10 against, 3 abstentions, 15 Federations, 8 RS, enough entity majority, this law has been passed. I thank the MPs. Moving to point six, Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act under Article 105 of 9062004 No 0102-02-2-7/04 This legislative proposal was adopted in Parliament on 9 this month. I'm loading a hearing, a request for a procedure as referred to in Article 105. We're being reported. I'm closing the debate. We declare the request of the Council of Ministers for this Proposal to be considered under Article 105. I'm asking the MPs to come forward with that. You're voting now. Thank you very much. With 28 votes in favour of, 7 against, 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority, we have accepted the Council of Ministers' request that this bill be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. Now I'm opening a debate about the law itself. There are no reports, Mr. Moranjkiće, so Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13589	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll be quick and quick. Since last time I spoke of this law and the need to pass this law, this time I won't talk about it because I stand in the same position, that it should have been brought last time. However, I would take advantage of Mr. Secretary's presence and ask him something I am interested in right now and I don't understand. First, why this whole drama, because it has become part of a drama, is the real Council of Ministers using and forcing only a member of 105 who irritates MPs. I think if there's anyone on the board against it, it's only gonna be because of that irritation. If it had gone according to Article 104, it could have been long ago, and even in the regular procedure, because I believe that this law is uniform in this time and should be passed. Secondly, do you think, Mr Mintre, you're doing the whole tariff law this practicalally, because from this I can conclude that you're going to bring a complete law to this House like this to pieces, that some years there, at least some third set would adopt it. As far as I know, in April this complete law was supposed to be in the procedure in this House, it was not passed. I asked the MP's question, where I had an easy answer... the answer was, the question was, why is there no law? And the answer was, we're late. It's an affair. 65 And so I voted and then, I will vote now and I call on my colleagues to vote because this is the solution to a part of this problem. True, 13 percent of this problem, but we have to solve 87%, and I call on the ministry to deal with this problem as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13590	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13591	Here I am, I'd just like to say that I've got two materials, I don't know why because me and the whole club have always been for procedure and for this law. Probably to determine the material. And I have an observation because unlike these other laws, I received this law signed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and in the text respected, etc. He writes that he is delivering the Law on Supplements to the BiH Customs Tariff Act to three language versions. Indeed, I will speak this by law from now on until this changes. This is meaningful, so one is a language but three versions or variants. And here I've stopped saying I'm probably going to start again, that I get up here, the stamp and next to it H, but it has nothing to do with H. I don't think I know who in the Council of Ministers, I just called Mr. Ivan Ćosić, now I'm calling the chairman, because they're signing it. Never mind that Croatian language, it should be written in three languages. I'm not just asking him to write a single language, to which the variants correspond, that's fine. Let it say that he delivers the law in three languages. And it doesn't really need to be written, but it needs to be delivered in language. I don't think it was delivered to anyone in his language. Okay, you, uh, have the privilege of looking in this House. I'll have an observation, of course, on the following points, if this doesn't get into the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13592	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Have you heard from Mr. Bešlagić?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13593	Let me ask you a question about this law. If the law does not pass a procedure in this House, what time does it take to get that law back in Parliament? In the same text, in the same distance, in the same answers, I would ask you that if anything else, we respect this Law of Law in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13594	Thank you very much. Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13595	And as a colleague says, we got two, three copies of the law, and we could see that it wasn't the law in the same text. Therefore, Article 2 of the Law covered the suggestions made at the previous session and what was offered as a conclusion, is now introduced into the law and it is clear that the Council of Ministers undertakes that, after three months of application of 66 of this law or the use of one third of the quotas, the Ministry of Foreign Trade actually submits a report to the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly. And when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, let me say the same thing, the Rules of Procedure do not allow a return to the procedure of the same text, and this law is not in the same text. The Council of Ministers made sure it wasn't in the same text and I don't think there's any business obstacle to the adoption of the law, and I don't think it's essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13596	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Bešlagić, then Mr. Kunić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13597	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13598	As far as deadlines are concerned, there are no restrictions on deadlines in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, it is possible to do so immediately. Here you go, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13599	Dear Chairman, I think there are no rules of procedure in the world and in the world of parliament to allow the same thing to go the third, fourth time, to discuss things that have not been passed in parliament. And Mr. Bešlagić is absolutely right. If we allow something like this, and obviously we allow it, it's a legal jungle, and it's not a legal state, to go in, there's no crumb of a rule of law. That's true, gentlemen. And Mr. Bešlagić is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13600	Thank you very much, Mr. Kunić, but here's the interpretation of Secretary Dom and by business, there's no obstacle to this. Please, whether the Rules of Procedure is good or not, that's another question and that's what we've opened up and that would be correct to say. No more logged in for
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13601	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13602	Well, thank you very much, and I agree with you that this should be clarified, but right now there are no obstacles and we're working on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. A final debate on the law itself. I ask the MPs to make a statement by voting on the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, the date 09.06. I have read you the number. Thank you very much. Please vote now. With 26 votes in favour of, 7 against, 4 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, I find that the Parliamentary House of BiH has adopted Proposal 67 of the Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff of BiH, No 0102-02-2-7/04 of 09.06.2004. I thank you all. The debate is closed. We're going to point seven, and I would also like to thank Mr. Doki for his active participation in this point. So the seventh point is Ad.7. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, also under Article 105. You received 20.05. I am opening a debate on the request for a procedure under Article 105. No charges for discussion? I'm closing the debate. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice, as referred to in Article 105. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 36 votes in favour, we accepted a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. Now I'm opening a debate about the law itself. There are no reports. I'm closing up. I ask the MPs to now declare themselves on the very proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. Vote now. Thank you very much. I agree that, unanimously with 33 in favour, we adopted the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. Moving to point eight, that's Ad.8. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH also under Article 105. At the same time, you received this proposal as well as the proposal for a law supplementing the Court Act. I'm opening a debate on a request for procedure. Are there any reports? There isn't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Please state your request for this law to be considered under procedure 105. Vote now. With 35 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions, we have accepted the Council of Ministers' request to consider this in accordance with Article 105. I'm opening a debate about the law itself. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. And I ask the MPs to make a statement by voting on the draft law supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. 68 Vote now. Thank you very much. With 35 votes for, without votes against, abstentions, we adopted the draft law supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. I thank the MPs. We're going to the ninth point, I suggest we finish these two more points, because they have obligations for both MPs and clubs to discuss after that when the session will continue. I think we can hold another session before 28, I'm going to suggest an appointment to finish what's left open today and that in peace, if you agree. That's my proposal as chairman. Thank you very much. So we move on to point nine, that's ad.9. A request by MP Muhamed Moranjkić to consider draft law amending the BiH Election Law under the procedure of Article 104. On 20.05., MP Muhamed Moranjkić submitted the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Election Act, with a proposal for Dom to consider it by procedure 104. I am opening a debate on the request for an emergency procedure under Article 104. No, Mr. Jovanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13603	Chairman, I appreciate what counterpart Moranjkić has done to make it easier for people to vote to say with a ID card. But what can happen as a problem. I suppose it's in the Federation, but there are municipalities in the RS that mean, personal documents don't issue according to the CIPS project yet, so it means that in fact these people would be in a position relative to the ones where the documents are already being issued. I mean, if it wasn't for this one, now let's adopt this because I'm saying, so we'd have people who are privileged and these other means that we couldn't vote. But I think this could serve this, maybe as a recommendation that those people who have that document, mean they're automatically and registered. So there's no need for them to especially go to the municipality to register, but to be registered. So if the CIPS project was completed, then I would say this would make sense and it could be, it could simply make it easier for voters to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13604	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Zorić, then Mr. Kunić. And I stress that we are discussing the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13605	I think here, about the procedure but, uh, you'll let me say two sentences too because Jovanović and here's my colleague Jusufović running a dialogue that doesn't have this one, I want to help them out a little bit. In fact, counterpart Jovanović voiced one concern that some municipalities would be in an unequal position compared to others. They won't, because these are municipal elections. So if there wasn't a CIPS, then it wasn't in that municipality of no one's CUPS. If it was in some community, it was for all the CIPS. So they're all equal, and the CIPS will be 69 until the general election, so there's no this one, no dilemma. I'm just sorry, and maybe there's a moment here, to mention that there's not a little more radical, I don't think more radical in any sense than a little more amendments to the election law that would improve that law, or maybe even up to these local elections that will be in the 10th month. We have talked a little with the Electoral Commission, and I think it would be a good idea to point out these changes in order for some of us to implement these elections as soon as possible. For example. I mentioned it to the Electoral Commission, the preference. With preference especially in the local elections, I have to make it public here, many women fall out of another place. So, they don't get into the municipal this, the legislative bodies, although they're in a different place, and that's what these politicians men do, prefering the last one over because women are also on many lists of decorations. I'd like this one, I was thinking on these lists. There's all this black and white on the list. I would suggest to the Electoral Commission that it may do so in that sense, and just as far as Article 105 of an amendment that we would adopt here in Parliament because everyone who makes a list is trying, so let me say this one, a better quality in terms of politics or this one, advocates what the municipality needs in another place and may be in twenty others. Every political party takes care that it prefers to draw up a list itself, and I say this, I am very dissatisfied, personally that some women do not know down in the county or the municipality where I live, did not pass into the municipal councils or county or cantonal assemblies and were to enter by rank.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13606	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. I will remind you before the word gets Mr. Kunić, that we have made changes and additions to the law and that we have said that the second stage of thorough change will work before the general elections and it is open and all suggestions are welcome. So, we're not done, we've got work to do, that kind of work to do. Mr. Kunić, then Mr. Moranjkić, then Mr. Ćeman, that's the order. Thank you very much, Mr. Ćeman, for giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13607	Dear gentlemen, Article 2 can create certain problems
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13608	I'm asking for a little more patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13609	Article 2 may create certain problems for the Electoral Commission, on what to interpret, etc. Because it says here if there are personal documents issued under the CIPS project, it achieves its electoral right. So, the electoral right is bound to the persons who, who have the documents per project, are therefore new ID cards. Independent of this is an absolutely good intention. So regardless of whether it is registered but down in Article 3 to be able to pass this law, this law is set in motion on the day of its publication in the Official Report of BiH, and will apply from the next general elections. So there's something to be said so we don't create a mess in Article 2 that for these right now, because it might cause problems, we have to specify Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13610	But here it is done, so procedure 104 can be intervened at the commission stage. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13611	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, my intention was extremely broad and well-intentioned. It's about the next one, I gave the explanation. Maybe what's given is not the clearest thing, but I'll just take the right to comment on something else very quickly. The reasons that have offered me to submit this proposal before the 2004 local elections are the result of one of my studies and thinking why young people in particular, and otherwise an increasing number of citizens, are simply abstinent, raising their hands from very important issues that are being addressed and happening in certain political fields and are one of these elections. I especially came in a position to be defined by this when I'm of 200 names or 250 as much as I've collected for the local elections, it's been found that 86 isn't registered in the voter lists. I went to that point, and then I examined all these people, and I saw that 73 out of 86 still had C.I.P.S. records. Now how to set it up, this isn't about me or any of the options, this is about one part of it means citizens who are going to stay by, especially because the deadlines were rigorous and they're going to do it from last night's twelve. I've been thinking about one of my solutions that I should, this CIPS project that creates a central database can help all citizens, including us in political structures, get these people automatically transferred from the central database to the polling lists. That was the point and she wouldn't, and well Mr. Zorić replied to my fellow respected Jovanović, would not endanger anything in this sense of the municipality. It's on the municipality which is, it's not known whose voter it is, etc. which means it's not going to harm any political options. Next,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13612	Please, Mr. Moranjkić, the procedure will be
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13613	I'm very fast. Why am I 104? I'm going over it right now because that's what it was. Since it's a really wide-ranging good of my intention, I've left an opportunity for us all to participate and to build up a part of this problem in this time. That's why I went after 104. I've been asked why it's 104, why it's not 105? That's why, if anyone thinks they need more, what someone said more radically, or one way or another, to get into this procedure, let the brother come in and let us accept everything to make it better for these choices when it comes to getting these people out. Well, I mean, I don't know if I need a wider explanation or a rope than this. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13614	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. No more reports? Does anyone else have a report? 71 Mr. Altić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13615	A large number of youth who have acquired electoral rights cannot vote. For what reason can't he vote? I'll explain now. In order for someone to gain electoral rights and enlist themselves in the electoral list, they must bring in a ID card, birth certificate, and a Census of Citizenship. Young people don't have money, and that's why they don't sign up for voter lists. I therefore fully support Muhamed Moranjkić that the member of the law should be changed for a greater response to the October month general elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13616	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. We move to a statement on the procedure, which means I would ask the MPs to state if we would consider the proposal for a law amending the BiH Election Law of Mr Muhamed Moranjkić's representative under Article 104. Please plead now. Thank you very much. It is clear that this is a plural parliament, and despite strong arguments, there were MPs who were against it, but in any case, I konstatirati that Mr Moranjkić's request, that the draft law on amendments to the BiH Election Law be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104, was adopted. We're going over, I'm thanking you, we're going to the tenth point, that's A. 10. The draft law amending the Law on the Human Rights of BiH, in first reading, is proposed by the BiH presidency. Parliament was sent on 07.04 to representatives on 13 April, the Commission for Human Rights for Immigration, Refugees and Asylum is responsible. The Constitutional and ustavno-pravni Committee delivered its opinion 04.05.a to the Competent Commission 01.06. You've been given an opinion, a report. The competent commission found that there was no amendment to the proposed law, so it accepted the text of the law in the proposed form. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the MPs to declare on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Human Rights of BiH in the first reading. Vote now. Thank you very much. 30 for, no votes against, 1 abstention. I find that we have adopted the bill on amendments to the Law on Human Rights in the first reading. As there have been no amendments, I suggest that the House be made aware of whether or not we will declare this law in a second reading. 72 Please make a statement about the proposal to make the House known in the second reading. Vote now. With 33 votes in favour, unanimously, without votes against, abstentions. We agreed to make this proposal known in the second reading. So, please, MPs, is there any need for a debate? There isn't. Thank you very much. I ask the MPs to declare in their second reading the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Human Rights of BiH. Vote now. Thank you very much. I agree that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of BiH was adopted in a second reading. I thank all the MPs here. I am completing the work on this agenda of today's session and I ask you to accept that we will have a 25. because in the meantime, it is a regular session of the Council of Europe. The Bosnia and Herzegovina State Report is also on the agenda. I'll be back Thursday afternoon, so the session would be Friday. You biti be informed in due time and the College will now hold one session to see eventually, except for this extension whether we can do anything for 25th according to the requirements of both clubs and representatives. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 1550 hours. 73 Representatives, honored guests, continue the work of the 39th House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The sequel is currently attended by 33 MPs, 21 from the Federation, 12 from Republika Srpska. Justice was sought by Mr Blagojević, Mr Džedović, Mr Altić and Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, who should arrive at any moment, so she announced a delay. We have a quorum and we can make a full decision. We stopped the session last time. We've got six dots left, that's, I'll read them to you now. First, 1 / 1 Confirming the list of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions, 2. Report by the Joint Committee on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures and the Committee on Human Rights Immigration of Refugees and Asylum, on the proposal for conclusions presented in the debate on the list of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions, Under two, Report on the results of the work of the Investigation Commission to determine the circumstances of the arrest of Ante Jelavić, Miroslav Prce and Miroslav Rupčić, from the aspect of respect for the law of the prescribed procedure and possible violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, 4. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the application of the BiH Law in 2003, 5. Report on the financial operations of the Public Business Official Glasnik BiH, according to the 2003 and 6 annual accounts. Giving consent to ratification, so under (a) an agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on conditions of travel for the citizens of the two states, (b) the Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Albania. Before we go on to realize the agenda, I would like to inform you that we held a session of the Extended College this morning and that we agreed that today we should conclude in some rational time the work of the 39th session and that immediately after the 39th session we would open the 40th session, where we would establish a procedure for five laws under Article 104, so that the commissions could work and not only would call for a special session. I hope you accept that as a rational suggestion. Very briefly, it means only procedure and only 104th and ratification of those agreements that matter to BiH. That's short, we can finish it in 15 minutes. And next session 74 then 41st would be held somewhere 9-12. 07th so that the commissions would have enough time and MPs to prepare themselves qualityly. Thank you very much. I think that we can continue to work, before we move to the first item of the agenda, I would also like to inform you that, apart from that list of candidates for the general positions we discussed at the last session, we have received a new proposal from the Commissioner within the same agenda point, which is the general positions in the Federation of BiH and the RS military. The proposal for a proposal was on the committee responsible, the Joint Commission of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures, and I think it is also supported by the Joint Commission and I think that today there are conditions for us to consider this as a whole, that we, both today and on the second proposal, should be made known before NATO's meeting in the 28th month in Istanbul, make a contribution to one significant part of the defence reform commitments in BiH and to facilitate BiH's position at that summit in this sense. I will, after we have finished the debate in that part, give the word to Defence Minister Nikola Radovanović, to explain the whole of this proposal in the name of the promoter and then to go ahead with the work. Here you go, Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13618	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, so I would like to explain the proposals made by the BiH Presidency regarding the appointment, or to confirm candidates for general positions in the BiH defence system. At a meeting of the BiH presidency at the 49th session, held on 09.06 this year, and on the basis of the BiH Defence Act, the BiH presidency referred to the procedure for confirmation in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, three candidates for three positions, and that for the position of the head of the Joint Staff of BiH, as deputy head of the BiH Joint Staff for Operations and for the position of commander of the BiH Operation Command. These proposals were the subject of discussion at the previous session, i.e. in the first part of this session of the Parliamentary Assembly, and in this regard I would like to state the following, that, for the position of the Chief of Staff of the Joint Staff of BiH, Brigadier Sifet Podžić, for the post of Deputy Chief of Staff of Operations Brigadier Slavko Puljić, and for the position of Operational Command of BiH Brigadier Vlado Džoić. The BiH Defence Ministry also held a debate during the first part of the session, as well as the conclusions of the Joint Defence and Security Committee from a session held during yesterday, tasked with preparing complete information on the case of remarks related to Brigadier Sifet Podžić and to present his assessment of the situation in this case. This was also the subject of discussion at the last session, the 50th session of the BiH Presidency held in 23.06, and in this sense I want to present it before this House next. First, that the BiH Ministry of Defence has collected documentation available by both Mr. Sifet Podžić and the competent institutions of the Federation of BiH, as well as valid documentation and statements by Mr. Jovo Vukobrat, and that on the basis of 75 available documents, it has prepared information to be addressed to the Committee during the day. Our conclusion in connection with this situation is that Brigadier Sifet Podžić took possession or acquired a tenant right based on decisions made by the competent institutions and with respect to the laws of the then and later Federation of BiH, that, with further action in accordance with the provisions of the law, the positive laws carried out the purchase of the apartment, came into possession of the apartment, and that Brigadier Sifet Podžić did not personally violate the provisions of the law. What is controversial in this case is the fact that there is a difference between the applicable laws governing the issue of tenant rights in RS, the Federation of BiH and you know that this issue is subject to consideration in the BiH Constitutional Court. Our opinion is also recommended that given that it is not a personal procedure which would be contrary to the provisions of the law, it is confirmed on this House today, the proposal by Brigadier Sifet Podžić for the appointment of the intended function, and he also stated in his statement that the moment that any official body was BiH, whether the Federation of BiH, would make a decision that would in some way oblige him to act differently from the present one, that he is willing to do so and I think that the moment that the Constitutional Court and the time when the issue is settled properly, there is always the possibility that if there are needs and legal grounds, any of these generals can be done differently in the case of either of these generals, so also Brigadier Podžuć. So, once again, the BiH Defence Ministry is in a position to conduct properly or better in the situation, to support Brigadier Sifet Podžić's proposal for the specified position. In my understanding or understanding, at the proposal of Brigadier Slavko Puljić and Brigadier of the Vlada of Džoić, there were no objections in the previous debate, and I would not continue to repeat again all the arguments related to these other two proposals, and I suggest that today it be confirmed by the vote of these three candidates and I consider that, given that it is different duties, I think it is the right thing to do, the vote individually for each of the proposed candidates, because it is about different functions. And, Mr. Chairman, if you allow a very short explanation for the six candidates' proposal for six positions in the BiH Federation-level defence system and at RS level. Acting under the same law, the BiH presidency at the 50th session, held on 23.06, made a decision to determine candidates for general positions in the Federation of BiH and the RS, and to refer to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the certification procedure and authorised the BiH Defence Minister to explain the proposal. On this occasion, I would like to point out that the proposed next candidates, for the next positions in the Federation of BiH military, Brigadier Hajrudin Grabovica, are on the post of Commander of the Joint Commander of the Federation of BiH, Colonel Jugoslav Brdar, acting as Deputy Commander of the Joint Commander of the Federation of BiH, Colonel Anto Jeleč, acting as Commander of the First Armoured Army of the Federation of BiH, and Brigadier Mirsad Gutić, acting as commander of the Second Mechanised Brigade of the Federation of BiH Army. 76 The following are proposed to the next RS military position, first Major General Novak Đukić, on the duty of RS Army Chief General Staff, second Major General Stamenko Novaković at the post of commander-in-chief of the Fifteenth Mechanised RS Army Brigade. I have been informed that the biographies of those persons have been delivered before, if there is a need I can briefly quote one more time. ________? Brigadier Hajrudin Grabovica was born on 05.01.1960 in Rogatica, BiH citizenship, Bošnjak nationality, married, father of one child, completed the Military Academy in 1983 and more training programmes. Today he is on the duty of Commander of the 820th brigade in Gorazd. Colonel Jugoslav Brdar was born in Livno, a citizen of BiH, Hrvat, married, father of two children, completed the Air Force Military Academy in Zadar and the Faculty of Iro-nautics in Zagreb. He has completed several training programmes and is currently in charge of the Federation of BiH Air Force. Brigadier Mirsad Gutić was born in 10.04.1960 in Calesia, a BiH citizen, Bošnjak, finished the Military Academy of the Land Army and the Academy of Armed Forces in the Republic of Turkey. He has completed several training programmes and is on the post of Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence and Security in the Second Corps of the Federation Army. Colonel Anto Jelaeč was born in Usora on 03.02.1959, a citizen of BiH, according to the nationality of Hrvat, married, father of four children, engineer, graduated from the Faculty of Engineering and the School of Spare Officers, completed several programs and professional schools. He is on the post of Head of the BiH Federation Army's First Guard Assembly. Major General Novak Đukić was born 10.04.1955 in Banja Luka, a BiH citizen, according to the nationality of Srbin, married, father of two children, completed the Army Military Academy, the General Staff School and the National Defence School. He's on the duty of First Corps Commander of the RS Army. Finally, Major General Novaković Stamenko was born on 8.11.1958 in Snjegotina, citizenship of BiH, Srbin, married, father of two children, graduated from the Central Military School, the Land Army Military Academy, the General Staff School, and the National Defence School. He is currently on the post of Deputy Chief of Staff of the RS Army. I propose that predstavnički House of Representatives declare a proposal for candidates for these positions in the Federation of BiH and the RS military, and I also suggest that, as in the previous case, statements are individualised because of various duties. 77 And perhaps in the end, just to point out that a positive statement today, and a session of the House of Peoples, would create conditions for meeting that part of the obligations concerning meeting the BiH Armed Forces with 13 generals. In addition, the possibility would be open to faster fill-up, better quality fill-up and work of the Joint Staff and the Operational Command of BiH, which is taking place but is still well dependent on the appointment of leaders, and I think that in this sense this statement today is significant and useful for further work by the Ministry of Defence. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13620	I thank the Minister of Defence, Mr. Radovanović. I think we've got one whole and transparent explanation. So I think that the conditions have been created to make a statement today about all these proposals, but here, if anyone wants this, about this argument given by Mr. Radovanović. Mr. Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, today before the very beginning we have these two materials, and I fully support the Minister's proposal that here, especially in page 2 signed by Sifet Podžić, it says that under moral, material responsibility if any BiH body decides that the apartment is not legally regulated, it will leave the apartment and it is enough for me to plead on this matter, because it is a man who in this whole business, at least in the last debate has done nothing beyond the law and if the law has made a mistake, it is a matter to explain himself on this and in the moment of being negative for him, he is willing to come out. I think it's the correct relationship of an officer. Another question for Mr. Minister, because we didn't get this information about the candidate's biography, let me just make one statement that I did, that is, the information I got. Major General Novak Đukić is retired General JNA and he has been for almost five years now I would say in additional work with the RS Army. I think if that's true, I don't think that's good, and here I'd like to ask the minister if he has this information, to just confirm or deny it. So much so, I think the conditions have been met that we can plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13622	Thank you very much. I propose that Mr. Radovanović, after any further clarification requests, receive a word, and now the word is asked by Mr. Belkic here you are, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13623	I'll do it very briefly. So the Party for BiH MPs' club will behave like last time, so support the proposed package, and so to speak out on the proposed one. But I want a very brief comment. We have brought a man into a very unpleasant position, Mr. Bešlagić says today here is a statement by Mr. Sivet 78 Podžić that he will respect his legal obligations. Why are we asking him to do that? Why do we emphasize that with him besides all the other thirteen? So Parliament was dragged into the debate on the basis of documents and papers and statements, and personal interpretation and relation to certain matters. We have heard today from the promoter, whom I strongly resent, and who in some way only tried to fix what he missed in the earlier procedure, we would have far less problems, if a time-consuming promoter, whether the Presidency or through you the Presidency had brought out what we heard today. So I ask you not to draw Sifet Podžić out of context and do not put him in a position of commitment and a special statement that he will respect the law. The law applies to everyone. So, we'll support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13624	Interrupted connection
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13625	Let me first of all, I express my dissatisfaction because we have come to the conclusion last time that they will be representatives of the Presidency here and that they will answer this question. Since they did not give, and since it was General Podžić, I consider it and I consider it one of the very important and characteristic things, his statement that he was the one who, in the whole of this process, was neither guilty nor obliged to be exposed to shagging on this House. But as a man he said, if a state organ brought this part, so I say, let it be known, but I mean such a statement to give here is for me I would say an honest man and therefore I will vote, although there is no presidency, even though last time we agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13626	Thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić. Before I give my word to Mr Momčilo Novaković, who is next registered for the debate, I would like to say that the presidency has therefore tasked the defence minister to, on behalf of the promoter, so I treat it as Mr. Secretary of Defence, and there is nothing disputed here for me. So in writing it was delivered, and I don't see that we need to pollemize about it today. Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13627	I would like to ask my colleagues and Mr. Chairman, first of all, if we didn't really read the statements we received today, because then we would have entered into something completely different, and then we would have come into a debate where Mr. Podzic was expelled from the presidency, two materials, one signed by the chairman of the presidency, the second from the Office of the Serbian member of the Presidency, and then we would have come to the conclusion that Mr. Podžić was expelled in March 92 and that Mr. Vukobrat had voluntarily left Sarajevo because he was not in his apartment, etc. etc. I'm asking you not to open these questions here today, because we're going to get into something that isn't necessary when we're discussing this agenda point. 79 What we last set as a dilemma, or as a fact, nothing has happened to these acts that we received. So, in principle, it hasn't changed, but as a member of the Commission, I also told the Commission, that this new list is also, and that every name on this list is controversial if it is in the same position. It doesn't matter who it's about. So every name is questionable if it's in the same position if it's in someone else's apartment or if I don't know for some other reason. Given Mr. Minister's presentation, given that as far as I am aware of the Constitutional Court these days is discussing the constitutionality of this law, I, or the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party, is seeking after a 15-minute break. So before the plea, 15 minutes break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13628	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13629	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I wish, I know that the debate last time was over,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13630	I'm asking you all to appreciate that, but here we have some.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13631	I am aware of that, I am only talking about the moments presented by the respected Minister Radovanović, so before the decision I want us to be aware of the fact that the different laws in the RS and the Federation are in this area, are also in the area of privatisation and perhaps we should start these issues, that, for example, a large number of people couldn't buy apartments in RS because they had to have 50-60% cash. Maybe it's not okay, compared to the Federation, where he didn't have to have cash and maybe we should work on it. Also in many moments, I would like to remind you that from Mr. Vukobrad's statement, it is obvious that a request has been submitted for an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 3a) of the Law on the termination of the law on abandoned dwellings in the Federation. Every wrongdoer, and especially we in this room, know that the laws apply until the Constitutional Court says that they are not in accordance with the Constitution. So, about that, by that. But I'm a supporter of what Mr. Novaković advocates and Mr. Vukobrad here I see Banja Luka's phone but there's no address. I would like us today to do what is up to us as a Parliamentary Assembly, to appoint people to meet the conditions and create assumptions for further completion of formations both at state and entity level, but to provide us with an overview of the housing situation of each of the candidates we have appointed and who we want to name in the future, in which they live, on which basis and how it happens. So for everyone we've appointed, and for us to do our job today, the SDA Club will support both lists of the Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13632	Thank you very much. Mr. Špirić, let Mr. Jusufović prepare himself. I'm asking all of you to keep in mind that we've had a debate and that we're rationalizing today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13633	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished ministers, esteemed guests, I have been thinking whether there is any need to reopen today, and in that sense I will not contribute to the opening of a new debate, but I want to say that I have not heard many arguments today that would convince me first of all to vote for the list. I appreciate that BiH should take a faster path towards Euro-Atlantic integration, I appreciate the significant date of the Istanbul summit, and I appreciate that we should do what we can to make BiH do quality work in BiH's defence reform. It seems to me that today is a big mistake to say it's a date and we need to finish the job, it doesn't matter how we finish it, just to finish it, and to say it there, we've met the last technical condition. I don't think that's good for BiH, and I'll never agree that every human solution is the best solution for BiH, and that's why I think it's very important that people change for those people who will be there in any segment. What I wanted to ask, you know when we appointed both ministers and deputies, that at that time it was said that I do not know within what time, will be delivered to this Parliament when the booklet to Mr Bečirbašić was completed. Then I asked Mr. Minister, can you stand behind what the OHR points us to? Because that's where they were said to have this dilemma, did anyone get an answer from the MPs, did anyone see the work book? Has anyone seen if we have been deceived as Parliament or has the question been meaningful? Why is he hiding it? Why don't you say, that okay, what the OHR was looking for rightly, we checked, it's okay, or the warning was okay, we checked it out wrong. So we're not interested in... we're interested in choosing, so the timetable goes where. The second thing, Mr. Vukobrat is not allowed to go to another court instance, he is according to the administrative organisations of bloody five years in BiH, so when the authorities deploy from the judiciary to the police to their people, the individual has no chance, except to say as Mr. General Podžić, so I give an honorable word, if it turns out, I will come out. And do you know what happened to the cops who lived in other people's property? They had to leave in or three days, otherwise they'd lose their jobs. Many both Bošnjak and Srbin lost their jobs because they lived in other people's property. So that's what matters to me. And the other thing, in that apartment was property worth more than 40,000 marks, which is still being used today by this honorable and fair, who has not broken a single law. Is there people in the world? Or there's really no better than him, I said last time, I'm about to buy a state general an apartment from the state register, and I'm gonna back it up, we got a decent name, and if you don't get hurt by another, otherwise this makes sense. And I'm asking myself, naturally, is that why the minister, is the check done, is the candidates violating property rights? And it's not just General Podžić. Have we checked that out in public? Whether we're interested or not. Are those the brightest examples? There are other candidates on this list, but here's today, however most people decide, I'm looking for an individual vote so that based on those knowledge I can have a personal court on every candidate. Well, we don't choose a government or this is stuck here, that someone's going to cheat. And that's why I respect the principle of individual declaration for each of the general positions. I was against it today, not to slow down the reform to plead today on these entity positions, because I'm sorry, I didn't have time as 81 MPs to prepare myself to tell every candidate what I think. I think it's important. After the election, he loses the sense that we're discussing people. And it was, but if most of them decided to finish the job today, please. My position will be expressed by a vote. But I think there are more candidates who are violating property rights. And I am therefore interested in whether, as Parliament, we will stand by that it is possible to violate the property rights of others and be in key positions. And that is why it is important for these people to be checked in public, in order for Parliament to stand behind them, so that they can implement reforms. So, as far as I'm concerned there may be a pause, it doesn't have to be, we can vote one way or another, it's my view that I won't support people and I see that as long as someone and it's uniquely all soulful for someone, it's somehow giving me an argument to stay in my position and be against it anyway, because they've been tough years behind us, and I think we're all still together defending unfortunately the position of 92 years, and we're thinking a little bit about what's called 2005, 2006 and what's called the future of BiH. If they work in her future, the ones I'm talking about, I don't think it's going to be exactly the future that's bright. So, not as far as I'm concerned, there's no change in position and I'll vote against it. Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13634	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Munib Jusufović. Have Mr. Gligorić prepare himself. Please, just a new, eventary, debate is over. This is about Mr. Radovanovć exposure, and he was clear today. Please refer to that. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13635	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, before I say briefly what I think about this item of the agenda, I hope you won't be angry, that you college gentlemen will not use a pay phone in the future. This is true for my colleague Špirić and for Džaferović, because you often use a pay phone, which is not allowed for discussion. It can only be used as chairman when on behalf of Parliament, because you are automatically trying to distinguish yourself from the rest of us colleagues, so stand there for that pay phone, as it is a more significant discussion than this one of our own uses. You have no right to, and in the future, I beg you, use, you have microphones. I hope you've taken this well-intentioned, is already trying to introduce this, you're the same we're all with different positions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13636	It's not a dispute, Mr. Jusufović. We don't need to talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13637	So, uh, we're going to the agenda point. I've discussed this last time, and I want to be clear to the end and translate it out loud, it's not a fundamental question here because it's trying to discuss what's the issue of the Constitutional Court. I deeply appreciate that if Mr. Vukobrat's question, which was mentioned twice, this one, at risk, will solve the issue of the court's jurisdiction or have been dealt with by the authorities. It bothers me to mention the name of Sifet Podžić and Vukobrat a hundred times. It's like politicizing right now, let me tell you right now, that this has its purpose. So 82 should clearly say here that I'm convinced, so, if I'm not, let someone talk me out of it. The defence minister told us quite clearly and unequivocally that these are requirements to be met before or better told whether it will be before Istamubl or after Istambul, but these are requirements that BiH authorities need to meet in terms of personal appointments in the Ministry of Defence, i.e. in the BiH Army, etc. and its components. What's going on here? I am afraid that it is going to share responsibility, that Parliament does not make such a decision, because it is therefore no longer guilty, just not co-operation with The Hague tribunal, and I want to make it clear that I see it that way, that it is the essence, and nothing else is the essence. It is not the names of the essence, but to determine the shared responsibility of the BiH authorities, and this Parliament is being introduced to be responsible, because it did not finish its job so that they would not only be guilty because there is no co-operation with The Hague tribunal, better said the arrest of Karadžić and Mladić. It's my belief, and I think it's the essence, not these names. After all, I could discuss the same thing right now, but I won't. I think this package, because it's a proposal, it needs to be adopted, and I could argue, I have the same knowledge and some more. What Mr. Bešlagić is, to appoint an officer here, or general from another country, in position, however, I do not consider it a relevant and important issue now. I suggest that, on behalf of the club, we are told not to open these questions, we will accept the proposal as suggested by the Defence Minister on behalf of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13638	Replica Mr. Špirić. I'm asking you to take this out for a pay phone, interpret it as a way that we don't abuse this speaker of the College for Discussions, and that's what we're going to agree on at the Expansive College, there was no ambition. Sir, please, it's not that simple. I think it's more logical for us to act there as agents and here as a colleague who runs the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13639	There will be no Koelga Jusufović, so wherever a man speaks we will not change the story, that is important to me. Did he speak from here, from there, it's a matter of agreement. Now I ask the question, are you Bošnjak really, if this is true, going to vote for a general from Yugoslavia to be a man who will reform the BiH Army? Here's what you're saying if you have that knowledge, you want, so you don't spoil the job of Forić, I won't vote for such a general, be sure. Nikola Špirić will not vote for the general from Yugoslavia to be the reformer of the BiH Army, and you vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13640	Thank you very much, Mr. Jusufović's replica, so please shorten.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13641	Well, at the end of the discussion or not, Mr. Professor, it's my right and don't come in, no matter what we're from the same club. Mr. Chairman, if it's impatience, please use it nicely... these are important questions. Mr. Špirić, 83 I agree with the administration but I have no other evidence here, only to quote and trust the motionary minister of defense and I made that clear. It means that for the proposal put forward by the Defence Minister on behalf of the Presidency, and I would also do what you do, Mr Špirić, I would never vote for someone from another country, but I have a proposal, I respect the proposal. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13642	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Zorić. And please respect this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13643	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, after we heard the presentation of the Minister, Mr. Radovanović and explained some things and after we can plead ourselves individually, because it is a matter of different duties and that people will, of course, have individual solutions in the administrative matter of working-law relations, then it is correct and I think we have solved a dilemma that took us a long time at the last session when we talked about it. At the same time, I also said at the Expansive College, that it would be good for us to have members of the Presidency here and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, for the reason that if we talk about how important this reform is in BiH, it could be diplomatic, and it is important, then it would be a good message in this Parliament, that they be with us. And I believe that if Mr. Novaković remains on this proposal to seek a break, that time should be used for members of the Bureau and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers to be present today at this session. At the same time, we have a problem, which is that just because the promoters, in some way, hid themselves from responsibility and in the sense that they actually transferred that responsibility to the House of Representatives, to this House, for a reason, because they failed to do important things in terms of quality proposal and in terms of having to carry out appropriate analysis and not to accept just means checking from SFOR and who in the meantime appeared, so let the OHR and that the domestic institutions did not find the time to check and that today MPs do not have a dilemma about any promoter, but we got fax only names and last name candidates. This is what I'm saying for this entity level. If someone wants to accept in this House the sole responsibility for the failures that someone has done in terms of proposing, then it is also a matter of the majority within the Assembly. When I mentioned the congregation’s majority, it would also be important to know when we talk about responsibility, whether in this responsibility they had previously done all that work in the sense that the procedure and quality of work should be respected. Not in the sense of that statement, this, that I want to make a difference about. At the same time, Mr Jusufović spoke and I think he set up a very dangerous thesis in this House, that if Parliament should share responsibility in terms of not supporting the candidate's proposal that this would be a pandemic for co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which I believe should be absolutely separated. It's a matter of law, a matter of institutions, so if we want to in that secular majority that I mention, Mr. Terzić, who made statements in terms of taking over the responsibility of BiH-level institutions, that the issue will be resolved. Did they amnesty anyone from the RS, institutions, it is his problem, problem and political and legal and any other thinking. 84 Therefore, let the gentleman and all those who took such a commitment on behalf of BiH face the fact from the RS, and let it be explained what they meant, because they have a wide field, wide forests, do their job. And on the other hand, we have a bad candidate proposal, at least in this sense where these two cases are already being mentioned, which should really give a correct answer. We speak here in the Council of Europe, I have given some support so some do not consider it human rights, in BiH in terms of law, from local to any level, there we are telling a story of how to and should examine human rights, there we have admitted that we are violating them, but why today in this House we are violating human rights on the basis of property, because here we have actually received two documents. One thing they say is I'm gonna be moral, and the other one says the opposite in that direction again. I believe that we should have settled this as previous issues and that the responsibility is primary to those institutions that were supposed to solve it, but now we have to be in the package, we have to reform it, and if we don't accept it in that case, we are in a position to hide this, this, a good will to co-operate with the Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13644	My kolega Gligorić, uh, slowly brings the end, and I think it was this debate once before and you've brought up the last time, and I haven't interrupted you, and I'm not going to do it now, but I'm asking you to appreciate that we've discussed it in some way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13645	It's not a problem, but if we take responsibility to do a big job, so we can be exposed to the invoice in different ways, and I want, as an MP, to really be able to support it or deny it based on the evidence I'm asking, or the questions I'm asking, and to get the relevant evidence from the relevant authorities that had to do it before. I'm not a man who simply wants to accept the exclusive behavior or the leaders who order the executive authority to refer to it. And don't reform it, and don't cover it up under the Istambul Samit, and I'm finishing up with you, which is the governance incompetence at BiH level. It will cost practically this country for incompetence, to be managed by someone. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13646	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. The word is Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13647	The quote Mr. Gligorić made relating to the bringing(?) Human rights violations in the context of BiH, to say that BiH as regards human rights, there is therefore legal opportunities for people to establish their human rights, I do not speak specifically in the case of the generals, mentioning in this context leaves the impression that we are a state in which human rights are drastically violated. The report from the Council of Europe did not say so, we have a legal way of saying that our people will prove whether 85 of their rights were violated or not, just illustrations to tell him that last year the English state was sued for 20 applications, so the UK was at the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, that their citizens had been violated human rights, 14 had lost Great Britain. So, even in old European democracies, there are violations, which is why there is a court to prove it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13648	Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13649	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for giving us such an opening statement and he in a certain way expanded practically with the proposal of these six generals, what was discussed last time, and regardless of what we certainly concluded the business debate last time, this time, by putting these six names in front of us within this point one new whole in relation to what we had when we started this point of the agenda and therefore it is quite logical that some of this, comments can be made on that topic. I will speak only in the context of this whole. And every single example I use, I use only in the function of illustrating what I think should be taken into account when it comes to the whole. A lot of people talked about it. I join those who feel that we need to make it very clear today that this country's Parliament, or the Parliamentary Assembly, and this House is not on the way to the reform course that they claim, and I have no reason not to believe them until proven otherwise, the people who are leading this whole defence reform process. What I want to say very clearly, Mr. Chairman, on behalf of not Bošnjak or Mr. Križanović may be Hrvat, but now I am speaking on behalf of the SDP Club in the House of Representatives, all those who are who are, and I am saying all of this in my personal capacity at the same time not slylyly running away from being members of some people and... we are but here we are not talking as we are not going to vote in this House only as Bošnjak, Srbin or Hrvat, but as people who want to fulfill their constitutional and legal obligation. I think it's very important that if the presidency and the defence minister came before us with this proposal, I have a lot of objections to this. I'll just list some. In fact, a few sessions ago, I asked for an answer as to why the Presidency decided that they would not be run by existing generals for new functions. I didn't get that answer until today. We have a proposal here today, I'm not going into whether it's human, it's completely ephemeral from this point of view, whether or not the man of the Yugoslav Army is on temporary, extra work here, I'm not going into it, but here we have two proposals from the generals who are now generals, who are proposing to be generals again, which is the opposite of that Presidency decision that I may not know whether it's binding or not, but in this House I've asked a question that I didn't get an answer to. So I can ask today why we are not here as potential candidates, say General Dudaković or General Zeko, for example, who have been eliminated because the generals have been elected by the Presidency. So I think this is all we have in front of us very unconsistently set up. I'm not saying it's good or bad, I'm just saying it's not consistent. 86 On the other hand, I fully agree with my colleague, Ljilja, who said that we must be careful here that we do not violate any human rights and I think that we would violate the human rights of any individual whom we would judge in Parliament because of what was written in the paper. Each of us has a very nice experience of how true everything about us is in the paper or what someone said about us. So there's no need to judge on that basis. I believe that we should therefore vote together today as serious people, we can be here procedurally, I have my position on how we should vote individually or together, but we here as Parliament must say whether we as Parliament will support this whole, this whole, so that as Parliament we would not have someone against us tomorrow and say that we are responsible for not entering the Partnership for Peace and that this Parliament is equal to those who do not carry out their work and practically keep the whole country hostage because the most wanted war criminal is at large. So, I don't want us to get straight. That's what this is about. So that's why I think we need to be here and it's best for you in the parliamentary majority, to see between you and me if you're willing to support all of this, to move on and get this Parliament off of itself as they say possible guilt about what this, unfortunately, can do to us all together, to blame, I thank my colleague, Hadžiahmetović. So, our message, we as a club of MPs and Bošnjak and Hrvat, what we have here, think that Parliament must not be an obstacle to entering a new phase of the Partnership for Peace, whatever that means. I also think that it would be good for today, just for some message, to conclude on this, that in the next three months, if the minister of the same, came to us with one analysis at the latest in three months, here you have the green light, here you have formed this, how activities are going on, what is formed, today in this country you know well, we are not talking unfortunately about today at the Ministry of Defense having over 2,000 employees, and that one, that minister, better and those who follow it, know that one Finksa who is 50 times more economically powerful than us, has 10 times fewer people at the Ministry of Defense, is doing examples. One Belgium that has 100 times as many men as we do in the Department of Defense, etc. To give us three months to get an analysis, whether our soldiers who today have the caloric value of eating have less under the prisoners by NATO standards. So, first class soldiers, second prisoner, third prisoner and fourth BH soldier. Our soldiers today have a calorie diet less than the prisoners of NATO forces. So, about these things to eventually conclude that we're given one serious piece of information. And in the end, not least, what we got from the head of the Bureau's cabinet, don't let this kind of thing come to us anymore, so that the Presidency can send us a proposal, and that the head of the cabinet, sends us a letter to the MPs in which he stands, asking his representatives that if Tihić comes, the Paravac comes here to give moral support to his own. That's what it says here. Well, I mean, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, That's why I'd ask Mr. Raguž, I'll stop here, and you can think if I start now after this. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13650	Well, we don't have to finish everything today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13651	We don't have to finish everything today. So, I end up with the observation that what case, Mr. Podžić, did contrary to the decisions of the competent authorities, and that in which case I am under public pressure, he returned the apartment, so he should not be chosen because he does not respect the legal institutions of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13652	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. I'll just say, we've formed a Joint Defence Oversight Commission, gentlemen, she can whenever she wants to schedule a hearing and publicly invite the minister, report to the public about the situation in the military, and let us do our part of the work. And have him file a report for us and be here on the agenda as soon as he does. And let us work, I accept constructively just wanted to upgrade that proposal, Mr. Lagumdžija. It's not always the responsibility of others, that we go back a little bit here. That was an emergency. I apologize for commenting on this, but I think it was useful. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13653	I welcome all present and thank the minister who gave us the opening presentation and note, on behalf of the promoter explained some things and the HDZ Club remains in the positions this, and last time here, so not last but at a session that lasted 18. I'd say that there are some things that bother me here today with my colleagues when they say I don't know, '90s when a multi-party started, then someone threw one out if the phrase was hard to speak behind such a good speaker. Then people are extraordinary politics, among them I heard it, and then with a lot of these terms from the political jargon and then one of these, this one, this one, he fell down, said it's hard to speak behind this demagogue. He heard the demagogue, let go of that demagogue, and so but he meant to say it's hard to talk behind a speaker like this. Namely, I'm this one, I've heard here say, eh officer of another state. Well, for some, it's a compliment when it comes to someone, he was in a legion there in that Foreign Legion, so he's this, Major of the American Army, it's a compliment to some people, and now he's here all of a sudden this, negative if he's a Yugoslav Army officer. I don't think that's a negative, also a retired. I know a man who gets out of three states' pensions. From three countries, man receives a pension from Austria, Germany and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there's no problem with that, but now the only problem is whether someone retired in the Yugoslav Army or retired in BiH. For me, that's not a problem, it's a problem for me what people are, and the least of my problems is when I don't have any evidence against certain officers that we're having empty debates here, and that's what our Presidency suggested, especially for me who am from the parliamentary majority. So, as a member of the Croatian Democratic Community or as a member of HDZ and Demokršćan, I respect everything and someone doesn't prove otherwise to me, all of what our member of the 88 presidency, Mr Čović, agrees with the other two, and no one has come out of my hands with any argument. So the HDZ Club and the Demokršćan will support all nine appointments here that we have ahead of us. We last advocated it to be individual, I don't understand it now, after the Minister's speech, how it's going to be done, it's quite all the same to us. We will support either all nine decisions or both decisions. So we don't have this dilemma, and I think this is a very important question, and I hope that even the colleagues from the RS after the break are going to agree to some things and that it will help solve this problem because I don't see that they're not for the solution of the problem, but I do know that they're also thinking in this direction where I, everything that hasn't been proven to man this, that he's guilty of something, that he's not guilty and I expect that someone, or that our presidency is three-member, is being denied here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13654	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Živković, here you go, Mr. Živković. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the argument, then there'll be a break of 15 minutes because the club asked for it, after that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13655	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since the agenda has been expanded with these new appointments, allow me to say a few words and the new moments have come up in connection with a closed debate since last time. The new moments are intertwined that there are no members of the Bureau, although we have ultimately obliged them to be at the points they propose and their proposals, at least one of them. I respect the defence minister who was authorized by the Presidency to explain these on behalf of them, but apparently, members of the Bureau also have a lot of MPs here to explain things. On the other hand, we also received from members of the presidency of the Bosniak and Serbian people some clarifications that they had given last time, and it seemed to me that only two MPs who had these documents were debated, the rest of us were not in that position to discuss it, and now we have these same documents, and now we have much clearer things. I really don't understand what you're talking about here when you're talking about Mr. Podžić's moral character. I don't know, and I believe he's an honest man, but if he's going to write that he will respect every decision of the authorities, I see only one honest, honest citizen of BiH who would respect every decision this, court and competent authorities of BiH but I don't see the moral character of the man who was supposed to write that he would step down from office and possibly if he was elected here, in case he had to get out of that apartment. There I would then see a moral character of this man and I think it would be both order and fair to write, especially if we know that the Constitutional Court is in session on Tuesday 29th next, where this item of the agenda will be in the Constitutional Court and perhaps the annulment of the House of Human Rights Decision will take place. That is why I am sorry that the Istanbul Summit also happened at the same time as the BiH Constitutional Court, whether it is accidental or deliberate, but in every case, it seems to me that this speed and constant speed and constant decisions that we have to make in this House will cost us much more than we think. Thank you. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13656	Thank you very much, Dr. Živković. The debate is closed. Before the break, I just want to say as president of the House a few words. I think the House of Representatives has contributed significantly to this whole procedure, regardless of the differences that have arisen in the debate. The arguments were used. The ambition was all whether from the opposition or from the position of Parliament to lay down its share of responsibility in terms of and checks on candidates and their confirmations. I'm really having this debate and I'm not going to judge it differently, but I want to say it responsibly. As chairman today, I insisted on a full debate because I want Parliament to do its part of the work on BiH's position. We signed a statement, reached a consensus at the NATO Pact Partnership for Peace and European Integrations. And there must always be put into focus a higher interest. And the higher interest is objective in any case fulfilling obligations rather than questioning the fulfilment of obligations 28. I think that's where we should make the difference, I'm appealing to the MPs to set up today. We have a chance that, I will open every request from the club of MPs as I chair, I say that both Mr Špirić and Džaferović will open that Parliament's control role really becomes that role, but it cannot be done at once or overnight. And, at this point, it's a really new situation for me, what Mr. Radovanović said the presidency has reconsidered 23. So it reconsidered after our debate and requested confirmation. And let's say that in this procedure it's not just our responsibility, we, if we're this one, operate by a system of separate authorities, judicial, legislative, executives, then we have to accept that the executive is responsible for forming the proposal and that these proposals have been formed long after the verifications, etc. And if nothing those behind that executive authority have to accept those arguments. Otherwise we get lost in one mess. And don't let us introduce these game rules, but we can always bring the debate into all the important issues and I'll never limit it. So please, at this point, there is no more interest in BiH than to fulfil its obligations on the path to the Partnership for Peace and to use the possibility of participation in the country's most important programmes, everything else is relevant at this point, all that is not legally from any of the BiH institutions concerned proven cannot be an object that can bring this greater interest into question. Here, I didn't hope to abuse the pay phone. I thank the Minister, too. Today we have a really constructive communication with him... Parliament, we will continue it. I suggest that there be a conclusion with this, that we have a debate on the Joint Commission, a public hearing and that we discuss all these issues thoroughly at the House. So here's a break for 15 minutes, and then we move on to a plea. Please, 15 to 12 in the hall. Don't waste any time. The break... continued to work. So I'm asking you to sort of arrange today's dynamics 10 to 1 we're going to work 10 to 1, then we're going to give it an hour's break, then we're going to work until 3 o'clock. I think we can finish what we planned. Here, if we're going, we're going, I'm asking Mr. Gligorić to sit down, too. 90 If you wish to explain your request to Mr. Novaković, I give you my word, the debate is closed but you can, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13657	The chairman, the Serbian Democratic Party's Club, has prepared one conclusion, on which adoptions will depend on our relationship with the presidency's proposal. And I'll read that conclusion. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, arguing on a list of candidates for general positions at the 39th session, reached the next conclusion. One, one. The House demands that all military and other persons, after the end of the legal procedure at the BiH Constitutional Court, leave all disputed military apartments unconditionally. Two, two, two. Ninety days after the Constitutional Court's decision, the House of Representatives or the House will be informed by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of BiH's defence and security institutions on the implementation of the decision. Number three, three. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level to deal with issues of disputed military housing in contacts with entity defence ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13658	Please don't open the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13659	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13660	Parliament will adopt it by a statement. You don't have to accept it, I mean. Well, we can do anything, Nikola, but here's the thing, we talked about everything, we know everything. I don't know now. Mr. Špirić and Mr. Lagumdžija. Please, as chairman, I can rationalize the debate, please give a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13661	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, so you see it would be good if we got the written conclusion and we could tell what we think. I think this would be the craziest conclusion this House would adopt, that we would be undermining the Constitutional Court's decisions. I think this is a extraction and I don't know why. I don't think the SDS should be able to hold tighter when they're underpants, that's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13662	Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija, do you want some? Excuse me, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13663	I thought I didn't have to mention it, and it seems I have to, that the SDS, or the Serbian Democratic Party Club, was primarily in charge of the need to meet the conditions by 28, which at least because of some RS don't have to be this one, and its MPs are being charged. So, first of all, we were in charge of this decision, or by some other decision, we are not in fact questioning the good will that exists, which is shown through support for reforms in the present process. We appreciated and it is perfectly normal that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are respected, but we appreciated that this House, given that some decisions of the Constitutional Court find ways to extend their application, we felt that some 90-day deadline was acceptable, that these issues would, of course, be resolved by the Constitutional Court decision, i.e. that the House was informed that they had been resolved. So that's how we think we made it possible, on the one hand, for what I was talking about first, and on the other hand, to make sure that those people who are damaged by the law, which exists in the Federation, are compensated as soon as possible. So that was our motive for making such a conclusion and I really ask that it be understood in such a way without special some others, of course everyone has the right to comment on them in their own way, but the point in what I said is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13664	Thank you very much. Do you want Mr. Lagumdžija?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13665	I thought we'd be making new conclusions, since the procedure for proposing conclusions was open. I'd like to ask two things. First of all, by the same procedure, determine yourself according to the conclusion I have proposed. I will deliver it to you in writing, that the defence ministry will present within 3 months an analysis of the implementation of security reforms with special reference to the material and other state of the BiH Armed Forces, the BiH Defence Force. So that conclusion I would ask that we make a statement about it, because I would also ask you procedurally that we make the first statement about Mr. Novaković's conclusions, in particular, the second one, in particular, for one simple reason why I agree with my colleague Špirić that the first conclusion is pointless, and we will be against him, but the third conclusion is very correct, the second one is not well heard, so once again, when he reads it, the third conclusion is that we should do the right thing in the domain of the one that we have now opened as a question, and it is not questionable, but the first conclusion we consider that it is not unnecessary, because he is talking about how we will behave in a scale with the Constitution. So I'd like to ask you to put your conclusions one by one, we don't mind saying the conclusions first, and then by that we're going to be determined according to what's the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13666	Thank you very much. We have four suggested conclusions. Every single one of them will be declared by the House. So we're moving on to a plea. Since Mr. Lagumdžija made a suggestion before the conclusion, I think Dom can support that conclusion. So, that the relevant Joint Commission for the Oversight of Defence and Working on those structures within 3 months, prepare a full report on the situation in the review, on all relevant aspects, and that the House discusses this after 3 months, I put this proposal on the record. I'm asking the MPs to plead now. Thank you very much. I agree that with 26 votes in favour, and 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, the House of Representatives accepted this proposal from Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. I thank the MPs. We're moving on to a statement on the first conclusion. Please read the conclusions. So Dom asks all military and other persons to leave all military apartments unconditionally after the end of the legal procedure at the Constitutional Court. Please make a statement about this, so of course it is understood and I think the conclusion has content, it has logic of its own.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13667	Wait, if that's the decision, let it stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13668	Procedures, the procedure that results is legal, therefore after the procedure. Let's not argue about it. Nothing here is disputed. There's no need to believe it. Tell Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13669	You said that after the Constitutional Court's decision, all faces would leave the apartments. What kind of decisions? Decisions that require her to leave, so to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13670	That's what I think,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13671	Well, I mean it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13672	And let it get into the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13673	We didn't vote. I think it can be accepted. It only explains the intensity of your conclusion with this addition of Mr. Belkić, I am putting the first proposal of Mr. Novaković's conclusion on the plea in this House. Please vote now. So with 21 votes for, 4 against, 9 abstentions and enough entity majority, the House of Representatives accepted the proposal for a conclusion submitted by Mr Momčilo Novaković. We move to a statement on the second proposal for a conclusion that the House of Representatives will be informed by the Joint Commission within 90 days on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. Please this by implementing decisions and not working, Zlatkov's proposal referred to the full state of the army and the whole, don't be, it's really all clean. Please let us be clear, and this can be combined in the preparation procedure together, we have the conclusions, please make a statement on this second conclusion. Vote now. Thank you very much. With 29 votes in favour of, 3 against, 3 abstentions, we have the majority and general and entity and the proposal for a second conclusion was accepted by Mr Momčilo Novaković. And third, the House of Representatives will task the Joint Commission to work together with entity defence ministries to resolve issues related to military housing. Please make your statement on this conclusion. Vote now. I find that the House with 29 votes in favour of, 3 against, 3 abstentions, enough entity majority, also accepted the third conclusion proposed by Mr Momčilo Novaković. Thank you. We're moving on to a statement on candidates for these positions. The promoter has proposed individually and we will declare ourselves individually. Please state on the BiH Presidency's proposal that Mr. Sifet Podžić is appointed as the commander of the Joint Chief of Staff of BiH. Vote now. Please vote now. Well, I said sir. No, it's nothing. It's nothing. Let's go vote, and we also have a formal legal interpretation that are different positions. Let's go make a statement in order, I guess we're aware that we respect the arrangements. Please vote on the proposal to appoint Mr. Sifet Podžić to be the head of the Joint Chief of Staff of BiH and to vote now. Now. 94 With 29 votes in favour of, 4 against, 2 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, I conclude that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives confirmed the appointment of Mr. Sifet Podžić as head of the Joint Chief of Staff of BiH. Please make the House known about the BiH Presidency's proposal to appoint Brigadier Slavko Puljić as Deputy Chief of Joint Staff for Operations, please vote now. With 29 votes in favour of, without a vote against, 6 abstentioned, enough entity majority, I conclude that the House of Representatives has confirmed the appointment of Brigadier Slavko Puljić as deputy head of the Joint Staff of BiH for operations. Proposed three to appoint Brigadier Vlado Džojić as commander of the BiH Operational Command. Please vote now. With 29 votes in favour of, 1 against, 5 abstentions, enough entity majority, the home accepted the appointment of the BiH Operation Commander's BrigadierDžojićin-Office, Jojic. We move to confirmation - Proposal for a Presidency on the General Positions of the Federation of BiH and the Republika Srpska Army, first for the Federation Army, that Brigadier Hajrudin Grabovica is appointed as commander of the Joint Command of the Federation of BiH, please vote now. With 28 votes in favour of, without votes against, 7 abstentions, enough entity majority, I conclude that the House of Representatives has confirmed the appointment of Mr Hajrudin Grabovica as commander of the Joint Army of the Federation of BiH. Two, - I'm putting on a statement of decision that Colonel Jugoslav Brdar (?)) appoints Deputy Commander of the Joint Command of the Federation Army. Please make your point on this proposal. Vote now. I find that the House with 28 votes to, without votes against, with seven abstentions and a sufficient entity majority has accepted the appointment of Colonel Jugoslav Brdar as Deputy Commander of the Joint Commander of the Federation Army. Under three, - I would like to put the motion to vote for Brigadier Mirsad Gutić to be appointed to the post of commander First Mechanised Army Army Brigade of the Federation of BiH. 95 Please state by voting now. I find that the House with 28 votes in favour of, without votes against, 7 abstentions, with enough entity, accepted the proposal that Brigadier Mirsad Gutić be appointed commander of the First Mechanised Army of the Federation of BiH. And under four, - that Colonel Anto Jelić is appointed to the post of commander of the Second Mechanized Brigade of the Federation of BiH Army. I'm asking Dom to make a statement on this proposal. Vote now. With 28 votes in favour, without votes against, 7 abstentions, enough entity majority, I conclude that Colonel Anto Jelić has been appointed to serve as commander of the Second Mechanised Brigade of the Federation of BiH Army. We are going to make a statement on the proposal to appoint Major General Novak Đukić as RS Army Chief of Staff. Please state by vote, now. With 26 votes in favour of, 2 against, 7 abstentions, enough entity majority, I find that Major General Novak Đukić has been appointed as RS Army Chief of Staff. And a proposal to appoint General Stamenko Novaković as commander of the Fifteen Mechanised RS Brigade. Please make your point on this proposal. Vote now. I agree, with 28 votes for, without votes against, 7 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, that Major General Stamenko Novaković, appointed to serve as commander of the Fifteenth Mechanised RS Army Brigade. I thank all MPs, I thank the Minister of Defence, I wish him success in his work and at the summit in Istanbul itself, and we expect a full report together from the Ministry of Defence and our Joint Commission that the House of Representatives will consider. And we're going to the second point of today's agenda, that's Ad2. A report by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of the defence security structures and the Commission on Human Rights Migration of Refugees and Asylum The grounds for the conclusions outlined in the debate on the list of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions. You have received respected representatives report from the two committees, the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy, the Commission's report on human rights, refugee immigration and asylum. As you know, during the debate on the list of candidates for general positions in the defence institutions, we have commissioned these two commissions to consider 96 proposals for conclusions and to submit a report to us. Both committees have proposed the conclusions the House needs to make. I'm opening a debate on the reports of these committees. Anybody want some? Mr. Selim Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13674	As a member of the committee and here I say as president in this House, I stress that these two commissions have unanimously reached these conclusions and I want to say that this is really an example of how it can be made. However, I am afraid that this fifth conclusion should be deleted because we have said that the Presidency is present at the Parliamentary Assembly, because here and at today's first point, it was not present, and I think that this is something that immediately announces this conclusion, so I suggest that this fifth conclusion be deleted, because they do not cut us down, then I think that the good conclusions would be correct at least as far as we are concerned, these four conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13675	Thank you very much. I want to intervene here, Mr. Bešlagić. The fifth conclusion says, we believe it is necessary for the applicant or his representative to be present, so it is secured. The defence minister is also a relevant representative by official decision of the Bureau, so I do not think that the conditions provided for in this conclusion are met here. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13676	I just wanted to tell my distinguished colleague Bešlagić the same thing that you said, since it is my conclusion, I think that the Parliamentary Assembly should adopt that conclusion and I hope, and I have already said on several occasions that the members of the Presidency will find a way and have insight into what is being done here in this House, that at least one session before... comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13677	Thank you very much, Dr. Živković. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13678	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed without intending to challenge the quality of the work of this joint commission, I would like to join this proposal if this Article 5 were too high. It is too high for us to be able to keep this conclusion from our practice so far as it seems, and secondly, according to our rules of procedure, this is regulated. So it's mandatory to have a proposalor present. If there is no proposal, the committee may, or the competent authority, and the Dom may take it off the agenda. So, I think this conclusion is quite overwhelming. He's 97 regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and if we adopted him, I don't think we could stick to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13679	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanović. Anybody else want some? No more, Mrs. Palavrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13680	I apologize, are we at the same time considering the proposal of the Joint Commission and the Human Rights Commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13681	Yeah, yeah, at the same time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13682	So then you'll see that there are certain differences with the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy, and I think we should vote only on them because they have absorbed the Commission's human rights conclusions and have definitely added their own. So, in that part, all the conclusions of the Human Rights Commission are contained, by adding some more things and explaining.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13683	Anybody else want some? Mr Gligorić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13684	...quality at all, and I think that Mrs Palavrić has made a good suggestion because the Commission has actually respected everything that the Human Rights Commission has done and I don't think we should have a discussion about it, but to make a positive statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13685	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. So, I suggest we all come forward at once on a proposal for conclusions that have been sublimed in the Joint Supervisory Commission's report. Can we approach the plea this way? I'm asking the House to make a statement on this report. Vote now. Thank you very much. Mr. Križanović, I'm sorry before I have to determine the results. 98 With 30 votes to, without votes against, 2 abstentions, I agree that we have accepted a report by the committee in charge on the proposal for conclusions on the issue of the list of candidates for general positions in BiH institutions. We have had a few discussions here but, finally, the interpretation of point 5 is that today we have a relevant situation when it comes to the proposing, and the Presidency, we are obliged to call, we cannot in this way be different in writing in our conclusions to determine. Well, the Rules of Procedure are also regulated and what is contained in conclusion 5 today has been realised and I do not see that it should be questioned. Let's get on with the work. We're going to the third point, that's Ad.3. Report on the results of the Commission's work to determine the circumstances of the arrest of Ante Jelavić, Miroslav Prce and Miroslav Rupčić from the aspect of compliance with the law of the prescribed procedure and possible violations of human rights and freedoms The committee delivered the report on 09.06., I am opening a debate on this report. Mr. Filip Andrić, as chairman of the Committee, please welcome Mr. Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13686	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear fellow MPs, here's how you have the opportunity, as you've already received, so the Commission has done this job, the truth is we've spent a lot of time, we've worked together with the Committee of the House of Peoples, and the same report is addressed to the House of Peoples. As can be seen from the report, we addressed BiH institutions in the Council of Ministers, it is the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, then in the Government of the Federation, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Police, then the lawyers of the arrests, and then in our work after the collection of certain materials, we saw that in some ways, individuals from the ESFOR were involved in the arrest operation, and we also sent a letter to ESFOR in which we contacted that we had noticed from the Federal Police Administration reports that there were signs and ESFOR. So we asked ESFOR to give us an answer on the reasons, the way they are hired and their role in the arrest operation of those persons. I have to find out here that we didn't get any answers from ESFOR, and that's what we put into the report. I hope that you have carefully read the report and that you have been able to see our observations or remarks that we have observed here. However, I would like to say more than what is contained in this report. And that's what we've been breaking a little bit about, and we've been a little bit afraid that maybe we wouldn't be questioning things, whether we're interfering in the area of justice or not, so maybe we left out of the report one by myself, a very important segment, and that's what followed the previous arrest. And that is, calling the arresters, so through a statement from the Federal Police Administration, we saw that the arrester's call was the only one by Federal MP 99 through the Cantonal MUP, for an informed conversation just a year before, where a report by the Federal MUP indicated that the requested gentleman had not been found that day at the address, or that they had not responded to an informed conversation. In my opinion, this cannot be enough reason to go after a year to arrest, i.e. they are believed to be avoiding the court, the more the cantonal prosecutor confirmed by his letter to us, he confirmed that Mr. Jelavić and Mr. Prce, responded neatly to a call from the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office and as we know one call was received and Mr. Jelavić received a hearing which he had some ten days after his arrest. So he got the call neatly. This one before, I suspect some things are obviously wrong. The BiH Penal Procedure Act says that the measures that can be taken against the suspect to ensure his presence, for the successful conduct of the criminal proceedings, are a call, a ban on leaving his residence, a guarantee and detention, in the decision which he will apply from those measures, the competent authority will adhere to the conditions laid down for the application of certain measures, making sure that no weightier measures are applied if the same purpose can be achieved by a milder measure. The fact is that the invitation from the Court of BiH to the said gentlemen is not addressed. We have to notice that. And the second thing, when it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, where I think it is a drastic violation of this law, is that when a person does not respond, the arrest order is issued in accordance with Article 125, i.e. to avoid responding to the court and clearly in paragraph 3 of Article 125, is said to be carried out by the judicial police. This is where the Federal MUP Special Forces are engaged, whose jurisdiction is clearly defined by the Law, the Federal Internal Affairs Act, and which are detailed here. So the call to the suspects wasn't sent to respond to an intelligence interview either, at any hearing, but was sent to an arrest warrant through the Federal Police. It is also a bit of a sign that the law provides for cases where the Federal Police can be hired to assist the Cantonal Police, or some other institutions, so it is said that, with the agreement of the Police Director's proposal, but with the agreement of the Federal Ministry, such a warrant is approved. The fact is that the federal interior minister has never received a request, nor has he given consent to launch the federal police. On the other hand, the request by the county or cantonal MUP for assistance in certain matters has never been addressed to the Federal Police. On the contrary, the Federal Police had arranged in the space of two counties of the western Herzegovina and Herzegovina-Neretva, without informing the Cantonal MUP that it was required under the law. On the contrary, she prepared a plan in the Federal Police report, together with the Prosecutor's Office and the ESFOR, from where the arrest operation was ordered, which is clearly in the Federal Ministry of Interior report, where it says by group work and in connection with the planned future operation of operational measures and activities, led by the Deputy Commissioner of the ESFR and the MSU Commander, the Italian ESFOR Force, while their direct participation in the name of the Federal Police Authority was taken by the Commander of the Special Police Unit, the Chief of the Criminal Police and myself, according to Mr. Federal Police Director. 100 It is also a little sign that neither the state institutions competent or invited to know or be invited to know about this, that is the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice, have also not been familiar. That is, a certain species has been shown, a dose of mistrust to these institutions. In all the materials we have received, it is very clearly elaborated when it comes to the jurisdiction of the Federal Police Administration in an act by the Federal Ministry of Justice, which they have clearly explained. The jurisdiction of the Federal Police, which they can do and have clearly found that the court's order cannot determine that it is the affairs of the Federal Police Administration's jurisdiction, which leads to the conclusion that the Law has been harshly violated by the Federal Ministry. Following the crackdown on the law means the criminal procedure of BiH, the Law on the Federal Ministry of Interior of the FBiH, leads to the conclusion that there has been violations and human rights, or, human rights guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights, where it clearly stands there, that no one can be deprived of liberty, except in the procedure provided for by the law. And if we broke the law, then the procedure is not legal. You have received a report and the materials that we have collected can be available in the secretariat, each agent can personally make an insight into their contents, and therefore I am asking you to be very serious, for serious discussion, understanding and to support this report and for the protection of the rights of the people who are now in prison, here for five months, and not just for their sake but for the protection of the rule of law, legality in this country, that is, strengthening the legality of the rule of law and not the rule of some other laws. I thank you in advance, and I will eventually get involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13687	Mr. Felić, Mr. Novaković and Mr. Felić, and Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Križanović, that is the order of the reported. Or if you guys at the club think in a different order, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13688	I won't spend much time because it seems to me that the report actually told me everything that certain MPs have warned about here and everything that we actually expected as a home when we formed this commission. It is obvious that, unfortunately, this is not the first and last time, that in this country, human rights and not only human rights were violated in such cases, but the laws in force. And I haven't said anything new, and probably not this, and after that, some of the events that were happening are not the last, because here, in principle, when needed, there is a force and not a law. Unfortunately, the force conditioned again not by domestic vectors but by outside. It seems to me that it's something that we either have to get used to or that we have to work on so that it doesn't come to that. What confuses me in this report is I expect Mr. Felić Hazim to explain it to me, as a member of the commission, so against what was he against? Is it against what the report says, and the law is quoted there or against that law? Is he against writing that it was against the law there or is it against the fact that it was done against the law? I can't believe that by analysing some 101 facts here, of course I'm not talking about all but some very important facts here, it's not unique if there's no such thing as overstepping and authority and law, so if you want human rights violations, which again is a broad notion, so let's say that everyone can comment on this in their own way. I expected that this Commission would at least agree not to this, but to any other who would discuss such or similar issues, that it would at least agree that the law should be respected. And that one who disrespects him should answer why he doesn't respect him. And if he is not respected by domestic institutions, then they should respond to domestic legislation. I guess that's how much Parliamentarians are expected of us, and everything else and every other clarification is not in favor of what we're always talking about here. I would really like to have an answer from the board members to these questions or these dilemmas that I have asked myself by reading this report. As far as the report itself, the Serbian Democratic Party Club will support this Commission report, because our member of the commission from our club has supported it and not ambiguously supported the truth, and that is why we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13689	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13690	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Commission, I must say a few words about this report, given that you have seen the report, or the report, and that I am in point 3. so implicitly all the other members to Article 7 and 8 respectively, we have had an opinion or something different in relation to the other members of the commission. Namely, what's this about? The interpretation of the law of the Federal Law on Internal Affairs has implicated my position on item 3 and further until point 8. Why was my opinion like this? For the simple reason that different approaches to interpreting Article 35. The law of the Federal Ministry of the Interior has actually caused my position to be like this, and that the Members of Parliament would be this, informed here I will be able to tell you why I had this opinion. Namely, in Article 35. The law on the Federal Ministry of Interior is said to educate a special police unit to carry out anti-terrorist and other political affairs under Article 1 point 1 of this law. Item 2, a special police unit shall provide support to the Criminal Police Department who is working on the police business referred to in Article 2(1) point (b) of Article 1(1). An insurance unit of persons, a building that works on police affairs referred to in Article 2(2), under extremely high risk circumstances when it is considered necessary to provide special police units with the necessary skills. Item 3 units will, as appropriate, assist the cantonal authorities and other authorities of the administration at the request of these bodies and position 4, the use of a special police unit on the tasks set out in Article 3 of this Article, the minister approves on a proposal from the Director of Police. What's this about? The director of the BiH Federation Police Administration has been ordered by the BiH prosecutor to bring in... the three appointed to speak with. The Director of Police, in accordance with the warrant, did an order using units from the headquarters of the Police Administration, i.e. the Criminal Police Department, the Federal Ministry and a special unit of 102 responsibilities. Article 35(2) gives it the right to use a special unit without calling and without authorisation when working in the field with forces from the headquarters of the Federal Ministry of Interior. So this is not about attitude 3 and 4 where it is sought with the invitation to go approval, but in attitude 2 because the Director of the Police may use a special unit without calling and without consent if it is provided coordinated support to units from the headquarters of the Federal Ministry of Interior which the explicit is spoken in Article 40. The Law on the Federal Ministry of Interior, the Director of Police, does the following tasks, under 1.2.3 and under 4, requires the use of a special police unit in providing support under Article 35(2) of this Act. I think reading this law makes it perfectly clear that the director wrote and used units in accordance with the law, not prejudged how the use of a special unit occurred. So, a special unit as the force of the police task force is... in accordance with the law, however, the prosecutor asked the director of the Police Administration to follow that order, or the prosecutor's order. This is the second thing Mr. Andrić spoke of as president of the Commission's report in front of this House. So my position at point 3 to point 8 was to imply the interpretation of the law, the Federal Law on Internal Affairs, and therefore my opinion was to the other colleagues, the members of the Commission were the way it was. Who, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13691	Thank you very much, Mr. Felić. I suggest that these two reported, Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Križanović, before the break, which I have already announced. There'll be order after, you'll all get your word, I'm not closing the debate just before the break. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13692	I'll try to be brief, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I think that such a report by the Commission should not be accepted for one simple reason that it is evident that it is here from the material that we have, which we could see which was not delivered here, which Mr Andrić was talking about, can be seen that what was done was done, by order of the court and the prosecutor. It is one thing, another, that it can be determined that unfortunately many of the issues that are problemed here stem from the fact that we do not have SIP and the competent state institutions to do this and I think that one of the conclusions should certainly be, to determine the relevant state institutions, so that there is no question of why a lower instance is doing, something that needs a higher instance that we do not have. Unfortunately, we have SFOR who's been doing all this for us and God Bog ESFOR doesn't have to, because everyone's done what he's supposed to do, from Dejton to today. Also, I think it should be said here, that you can see from this material here, that a few questions that need to be very clearly answered here. Could the Federal MUP in certain parts of the Federation act in accordance with the law if these parts of institutions that are in those parts of the Federation do not do their job. Is it possible for the Federal MUP to carry out appropriate activities in a canton because the cantonal competent institutions have not done so? This is the case. You can see from this that from the beginning of 2003. The Cantonal MUP of the Herzegovina-Neretva Canton did not do what was asked of it and that, therefore, by direct order of the prosecutor,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13693	Please, please, please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13694	So that's what it says in these materials that you gave us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13695	You'll get a chance, all of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13696	Therefore, individual cantons are not territories representing states and no longer being able to act in accordance with their powers. And that all this was justified was the fact that one of the people was still on the run. So he's still on the run, one of the people this guy's been looking for is what he's saying in support of the fact that there was a reasonable doubt that some of the others caught would also be on the run if this case hadn't been done in this way. And I propose, Mr. Chairman, that we conclude independently of this, which is the point of the agenda so formalised, that it is necessary to speed up the implementation and repression of the state authorities that, in accordance with the laws of this country in co-operation with the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH, will do their job.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13697	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13698	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I will also be very brief. I would really like to point out that I sincerely support every activity of this House that will oversee legality and protect human rights. In that sense, I was last time to form this commission. I was a little bit and I suggested it, and I thought it was more effective, to do the job, to put the Council of Ministers in charge of putting them on, because here you see the situation that we've come into today. By opting for or against this report, it will have far-reaching consequences. If we admit that the law has been broken, that the powers have been violated and that human rights have been violated, that means that there is a responsibility of the BiH authorities that caused it. Now, I'm asking you, can we, based on this report that we have, determine a clear conscience? From what you can see, what the commission was doing. She asked for information from the relevant BiH institutions, she did not have a single oral conversation, and when you add it all together on one side she had an interpretation of the Federal and Court of BiH Police Administration and on the other side of the interpretation of the Federal Ministry of Justice which is not identical. The Commission identifies that it is more acceptable to interpret the Federal Ministry of Justice and draws conclusions on this basis. In particular, I cannot support the last sentence in point 8. which says, in addition, there is no danger of the escape of the detainees or justifiable suspicion of the execution of the crime, please it is one already qualification for which they would continue to be detained in 104 detention. So this is about once I say qualification for what the commission is neither her mandate nor her authority to determine. And that's why I think we're in one today, I'm in one dilemma, accept or reject this report? I don't have enough arguments for either of us, and in order to get out of this, I suggest we assign this to our respective ministry at the Council of Ministers, we have the Ministry of Justice, we have the Ministry of Security. Have the Ministry of Security use SIP, KOS, etc. So, what am I saying? I'm afraid by respecting the very hard efforts of the commission and the long time they've been doing, I'm not convinced that they had these capacities that without oral conversation, without an explanation based on 18 how many 16 of these acts draw one such essential thing to evaluate, to evaluate certain members of the law very sensitive to this matter. Thank you, so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13699	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanović. Now in this part of it, I'm interrupting the debate. We'll continue the prayer at exactly 2:00 p.m. we'll start with this part. Representatives, we're moving on. [[PAUZA]] We are therefore at the hearing on the third point, this is the report on the results of the Commission's work, in order to determine the circumstances of the arrest of Ante Jelavić, Miroslav Prce, Miroslav Rubčić from the aspect of respect for the law of the prescribed procedure and possible violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. So far, I've got two people in charge of the hearing. The first is Vice-President Nikola Špirić, then Mrs Palavrić. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13700	Gentlemen, the chairman, the esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I was wondering if it made any sense to report for the debate. It seems to me that this is an important part of the agenda, although it does not seem to be so and it is very important what kind of message the BiH Parliament is sending when this report is questionable. And I must say that I am the closest, first when my colleague Novaković asked Mr. Felić to state why he was not unanimous in the commission, I think it is unnecessary, the commission knows how it works, as well as the other commissions, although it is a matter of human rights. So it is the right for everyone in the commission to have their own position and the commission to make a decision and it was Novakovic's warning that arrests are being made here using force from outside. And that's a good point, that we as a state Parliament would have to ask ourselves why is that? Why in the RS, why in the Federation, when it comes to arresting suspects, whether for war crimes, whether high-level criminals, local police take off marks and let SFOR do so, after telling citizens that she has no insider, she didn't even participate. Is that the will to implement reforms? So do we have the strength to ask why people don't arrest criminals in BiH, criminals by law? Because domestic institutions are not, because it is such a conflict of crime, corruption and government institutions, that those in charge serve not to do so. I do not justify that, what the institutions should do, international community representatives are doing, but the gentlemen here are asking even the parliamentary majority, will they create conditions to face 105 say that they are happy that someone has been arrested, because they have embezzled, etc. So, I'm not speaking personally about the people who are the subject of this commission's work, but what I'm saying is that after the arrest, perhaps the most prominent state representatives at that time were created information that there are no untouchables in BiH, and that's good. But I'm against it, to go past the law, breaking human rights arrests or Jelavić or any BiH citizen. The problem is, we seem to be interested only in officials. We are not meant to violate human rights only when someone important or important to the sight of someone is brought in, etc. and that is why I think it is necessary to speed up the creation of institutions, to strengthen the work of the SIP in BiH so as not to bring organs into collegiate so that they are undermined by human rights. And I think the unpreparedness of local state institutions creates space to engage other institutions, to finish the job even though it may seem to be a violation of human rights. And I think simply this report, this commission, in this way, I think that he wants to be politically used first of all, which is not good from the point of view of this Parliament, but since there is a parliamentary majority here, and since a citizen, ordinary man, is a little relieved when he sees that someone important can be arrested, this parliamentary majority can today decide that all public officials, the farts of those who are arrested today, are released from prison. And it seems to me that this would send a clear message to the BiH public. So the parliamentary majority and such a decision can be made today because it seems to me that the debate is going in that direction right now. And I won't support this commission's report, I'm sorry if there have been violations of human rights, but I think that bringing the Court of Justice to those who need to answer at a time when state institutions have not lived, sometimes they follow small violations of human rights and it's much better if thieves and criminals, terrorists, criminals, find themselves behind bars to breathe, but whether it's broken even though I say I belong to a category of people who are against human rights violations. They were violated in this sense, because the competent state institutions did not want to or would not do their job. Remember this example only in the RS, when police were several times fenced that she had no idea what SFOR was arresting someone, and the police were serving, working, directly participating. Why can't he say he's arresting him and that one? That's what I'm interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13701	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mrs. Palavrć. Have Mr. Džaferović prepare, then Mr. Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13702	So, not to discuss this report, what Mr. Špirić said as vice president of this House, I am really worried. It is the fact that it is acceptable for it to violate both petty human rights and a permanent human right of some to be arrested. I just want to remind you that even persons suspected or accused of war crimes, so for the most serious violations of the International humanitarian law have their rights and have procedures when it comes to arrest. So I'm talking about human rights in general, and no human rights institution in the world is going to tell you either the fight against terrorism or the fight against any evil today, that it can be achieved with human rights violations. It must be achieved by respecting human rights and it is possible and feasible. 106 When it comes to the Commission's concrete report, I understand this report in a way that the Commission has put out 8 points amongst others, decisive and important Commission observations. So these are the observations of the committee that I understand that we are not voting on today, and the only thing that the committee in full composition has agreed on, and this would have been valid because it was 2:1 but the conclusion that the Commission is proposing is that after considering this report, therefore not adopting the report but only considering it, a comprehensive report should be delivered to the competent institutions at the state, federal and cantonal level and so on, I ask all the state entity institutions of the Brcko District of BiH strictly respect the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and their direct application without any exceptions. I don't see anything in this conclusion that this House shouldn't support. So, the report is delivered and those who are obliged to apply the laws and interpret it, let them find themselves, let them tell the Commission this is not so, this is not so, when it comes to their basic observations, but the commission is asking us only to support after considering the report, to support the conclusion that this report is addressed to the competent authorities. And one more thing, with this report. It is quite obvious and indisputable that the 6 million allocated to the SIP budget is not enough for it to establish effective instruments for its work, which would above all be competent to do this, and I, for this reason, given that all that the authorities of the administration or other institutions considered to be the authorities of the administration, including the Regulatory Agency for Communications or the CRA, which has 4 million surplus accounts, therefore, is bound by this House, by its conclusion, by the Ministry of Treasury and Finance of BiH, that, in accordance with the law of these 4 million, it transfers the SIPs to its disposal, in order to make it possible to bring all its capabilities into operation as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13703	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. The word has Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13704	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, from the report of this committee, and from everything that we had the chance to hear today at the House session, I am increasingly convinced that I am in the position that I was in before and before we decided to form this committee, which is that the BiH Parliament should not have been involved in this problem, in this way and that it should not have formed this commission. There's a mass of reasons for that. The key reason, and I will tell you why I think it is, is a possible conclusion for one who observes this debate, that this Parliament interferes in the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, which is inadmissible. I, in this context, understand Mr. Hazim Felić's position, which has been completely properly fenced by some of the Commission's findings. This is about a problem that is highly professional in nature, which, apart from being a highly professional problem, can only be spoken to by competent authorities dealing with the processing of such cases and, of course, human rights authorities. This report was drawn up by a commission of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and from the House of Representatives there were two people, who were graduate economists. One of them used to be through the service, I know it or through work experience had a touch with the internal affairs authority, and one of these people as far as I know is a man who's an engineer. I think these are 107 inadmissible things. It would be just like if we formed an investigative committee to investigate a case that had to do with strong or weak electricity, atomic energy or I don't know what more, and then we parliamentarians sat down and made certain conclusions. The least missing from this report is a highly expert opinion. He's not here. We're not capable, I'm a man who spent 16-17 years in the most direct way dealing with these things and as a judge and as a prosecutor, issued a number of solutions about determining detention but I'm not allowed to discuss this matter and that I stand behind it, that I stand behind everything I say with full responsibility because I haven't seen the court records, I haven't analyzed them, and ultimately it's not my job as a parliamentarian. In order to show you that if this report is adopted by Parliament, most directly involved in the work of the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office, I will read to you only the findings, I will not read others, there are many of them, but this is the most recent example. The finding from point 8 of the determined and important observations of the commission. The Commission therefore notes, in point 8, this is what Article 5 says. The Convention shall protect the right to freedom and personal security and shall state the circumstances under which persons may be deprived of liberty and the explicit shall be stated that no one shall be deprived of liberty except under the procedure prescribed by law. Of course, the legality of the arrest assumes an arrest in accordance with domestic legal standards, so as not to violate Article 5. 1 convention which could not, the Commission said, be concluded from the argument given from points 2 to 7 of this report. And now the commission says, in addition to that, there is no danger of the escape of the arrested or justifiable suspicion of committing a crime, so there is no danger of escape and there is no such thing as justified here, they sound so suspicious of the execution of the crime, which is why they would still be detained in custody. Dear colleagues, this conclusion is the BiH Court's business. Is there a reason for detention? I don't know. Maybe it's really true what the people on the committee wrote but I don't know about it and I can't talk about it here with a full degree of responsibility and I can't stand behind it. It's the work of the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. And if we want to be said not to interfere in the work of those organs, then we can't accept any other findings or this finding. Whether there's a crime or an excuse for suspicion, it's the court's business, we can't do it here. It can therefore be done by the bodies involved and by bodies professionally engaged in the protection of human rights, the ombudus, the European Court of Human Rights, or I don't know who doesn't anymore. I understand the Commission's conclusion, the Commission's conclusion calls on all authorities to respect the European Convention, to respect the laws and I against that conclusion, as well as my colleague Sead, to have no objection, but with this conclusion, or shortly before this conclusion, there is a deep argument in the Commission's findings as its views, and this should also become Parliament's views if this is accepted. I cannot stand behind these views as a member of Parliament, not because I claim it is different than what it says here, but because I am not the one at this moment or any of us, and I believe that if we want to be responsible, then we cannot accept this report. That's it, thank you. And of course, I'll vote against this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13705	The replica was reported by the chairman, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13706	Here's the distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I don't mean to pollemise with Mr. Džaferović, I appreciate his experience in this area, but still after what he said it is necessary to clarify a few things. First of all, this committee, this Parliament did not form a court case. There is explicitly a precise name for why this commission was formed and I cannot agree with the assessment, and that's why I called in the replica, that we were in a position to form this commission. On the contrary, I believe that we have done absolutely right because this commission has the task of examining the circumstances from the aspect of compliance with the law of the prescribed procedure, for the arrest and possible violation of human rights. This has nothing to do with the content of the court's proceedings and everything that the court will solve about the possible liability of those arrested. And I'm asking you to separate those two things. And there's no need to get in the way of whether or not we're interfering. We don't interfere with court's work at all. Yes, there is no element here that speaks of parliament being involved in the work of the court. And please, gentlemen, let's show once that the laws can be respected as they are and who has the right and the basis for which the criteria make the decision that they will not comply with a certain law in this and that element. I believe that this is the fundamental role of Parliament and that we are in no way questioning the content of the procedure itself and the possible responsibility that will prove within the law of the envisaged procedure and what the court needs to determine and the consequences. That's why I think, minimally, what Parliament should say is, give recognition to people who have referred to all relevant institutions and asked for an opinion. It is not true that it is not about expert work, here they asked for an opinion here, whom all of the lawyers, the justice ministry, the human rights ministry, the federal ministries, all the relevant structures, the ESFOR, so they asked for reports, why they acted under these circumstances and so on. And there's no expert and subjective approach. And that I am not now using this time for discussion, so I cannot think that the commission is rightly formed, that the findings are in some way encouraging and content not only for the case of Jelavić, Rubčić or Prce but for the conduct of the competent authorities and respect for the procedure in each particular case. Well, that's the foundation of the legal order everywhere. And if we think there's an additional need for some of this stuff expertly, so let's say here's the Department of Justice, the relevant structure of this, don't let us get into it, too, that we take responsibility, that we have everything to confirm, but let's question the full report and say that we're going to vote against it, and there are so many elements where the convention is broken. Mr. Felić exists. There are so many elements and the minimum that should be recognised, is that this document, which is above the constitutional order of this country, is as important for Mr Jelavić as for others, whether it is an Algerian group which I have also voted for, whether we set up any criteria in this House? Or we're going to act denopolitanly, so let's say, Mr. Jelavić is guilty, we've ruled him out, because that's because they broke into the bank with tanks, which is a legal order, and they still can't find the argument of this, let them do it with a regular legal procedure, let everyone in this country respond, Martin Raguž first, and everyone else. And don't at least be worth this effort to me that's been made here. It's not the conclusions that question any authority, any fate, any execution, their 109 independence, and we don't need to go into that danger, we really don't need to. But as Parliament, we should somehow get the strength to look into the eyes if there are elements of human rights violations and if there are elements of a violation of the law, to establish it. It doesn't affect the court's case in any way. I don't see it affecting you. This shows a kind of responsibility and this showing that we can start thinking for ourselves in this country and respecting bodies and institutions. If in that sense we agree, let us give extra time, let the Ministry of Justice or someone we still consider relevant, that our opinion on these conclusions on this finding as it is said to be delivered to the competent institutions and possibly to see once more and not to conflict over things that I don't think we should, but really recognize that there are no daily policies here, but it's really things where I don't see who can do it, so be it and the Director of the Federal Police to run a special unit past the law. It cannot be done in any democratic country in the world, no matter how justified the request to launch it must be in accordance with the law. It's a minima. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13707	A colleague, Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13708	No, not yours, Mr. Džaferović. Well, most of what I was going to say, said Mr. Raguž, and I suggest to you Mr. Džaferović that you might start an amendment and an addition to the Electoral Law, in which it would stand means that only lawyers can be MPs. I think that maybe it would be then we'd probably do a lot of things better and solve them better, and I don't think we have that much to say that we're even experts, but we have so much experience that we can ask someone who needs to deliver what we're looking for. I think we have so much knowledge, the ones who were on the committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13709	Replica, Mr. Džaferović. Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13710	Mr Jovanović, therefore, the Electoral Law, if it wanted all the lawyers or lawyers to be MPs, would probably have written it, but believe me, I wouldn't have voted for such an Electoral Law. So this is not relevant at all to be an MP or not to be an MP in Parliament. All I'm saying is that MPs need to do their job and make sure that by performing the function they've been elected to, they don't fall into a trap and then they don't question the conflict between the legislative and judicial authorities that are two completely separate authorities, which modernly says that we are separate, independent, independent in their actions and work. I came out here for a pay phone, and I made it perfectly clear that I don't know if what it says here is true in this report. Maybe it was, and that was the first sentence I said. And the second thing I said was that in no way are we a body that can give these grades. And I will repeat again, beware he says, in addition, when the commission, means to say this Parliament, this Parliament should say the following sentence, in addition to not 110, there is a danger of the escape of the arrested or the justified suspicion of committing the crime, which is why they will continue to be detained in custody. Well, people, this is the court's business, I mean this Parliament can't say here, I prefer not to sit in this House if it will adopt these conclusions and findings rather than stand behind these findings, because I know, I can tell you at least a handful of time now and explain that this is a court's job. But I'm not going to spare you these stories, I'm not going to list the Code of Criminal Procedure, I'm not going to list all the strong laws that are based on this because I know it's very complicated and very complex and I abstain from it. And everything I say in the end, I think it's perfectly correct, maybe it really is like this, but I don't know, and I'm not in a position to do it. And if I do it now, or this Parliament, here if it does, then it is a direct interference in the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. I would rather not be here, in this House, and I cannot support such a formulation. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13711	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Ivo Miro Jović, then Mr Bešlagić. Replica sir, forgive Ivo Miro Jović, Bešlagić and Mr Felić, the replica first Mr Kunić, it is the order of applications.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13712	Mr. Džaferović inspired me to say, however, about this issue. He's partly management, absolutely. Parliament is not allowed to interfere with specific cases and to influence the court directly, the trial. But Parliament has the right to discuss some equative phenomena. If these phenomena are more common, if they are colossal, if they are clearly violated by human rights, it violates the law, etc., if this becomes a notorious fact that in this case Parliament can do so. I wanted to explain here on a few occasions what the division of power was. Therefore, the fundamental principle of the rule of law is to divide the authorities into legislative and executive and judicial. But it is not in itself, therefore, the division of power that the judiciary is completely isolated, that the executive power is completely isolated, that the legislative authority is completely isolated. The aim of the division of the government to make one equilibr (?) that one power controls the other. If we do, if we had this orthodox vision that Mr. Džaferović advocates, then it's a brutality. Then we have the absolute domination of the courts, and which isn't this system is not based on that kind of organization of government. A system of power-sharing in the BiH Constitution has been adopted here, a classical system. Therefore, the primary goal of one government controlling another, so that one of them would not jump and rule over the others. Therefore, I think when we have that in mind, that that is why Parliament's possibility is, there is entirely Mr Jovanović's administration. The possibility of Parliament is, we don't have to be all legal experts in order to, Parliament is doing in real political control, political control, and that political control means these contents that I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13713	Thank you very much, Mr. Kunić. Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13714	I would like to say a few words first of all to the circumstances of today's meeting and then something about a specific agenda point, when this report comes to mind. What kind of Parliament we are and what sentence we should say about ourselves is most illustrated by yesterday's decision by the authorities to rule America. Dear MPs, Novaković says behind the pay phone while we were in the old hall, today I'm voting for, against what I actually think is a yes and I don't think so. And I'd like to remind you. vote this Parliament, I think it is the only one in the world, that Amerikanac are protected in our space if they make but in advance, if they commit a crime in BiH. That's what we all remember. So who are we talking to today about our duplicity? I think we're just gonna put on some shame. But Amerija saw its mistake yesterday and we haven't seen it yet. Why, Mr. Džaferović, will I directly ask, in the Presidential seat of the Human Rights Commission is a doctor, on behalf of the SDA? Why didn't you pick one lawyer? Human rights are at stake. And I'm going to ask a respected representative who said just now we're saying, we formed a commission to determine the truth. And now the problem is if the truth is found that Mr. Križanović says, you know, we can determine the truth that is wrong. Authorities were doing the right thing. What are we going to do as the Parlamen now, when it's determined that they're doing the wrong thing and that's the danger. And Mr. Špirić says the verdict at the pay phone. I haven't heard a nicer speech lately since it ended with socialism. All in the spirit of Stanjin. I want to say this, we are talking here today, my dear gentlemen, about the problem whether or not someone blew the money of the Republic of Croatia, do we have any problem that someone has spent BiH money? I don't. That's why throwing people in the eye, this problem to the general public of BiH, and what I need...is what in my area where I live like this, the Bošnjak Muslims came and caught a member of the presidency took him to a Serbian prison. I'm just passing on what my ears are hearing. Nothing else. I didn't put myself aside this one and that one, I just remind myself of what the citizens in the area where I live say. I said at one of Parliament's meetings, when it came to our representative of the SDP Party whether or not it was a coup, so you and my steps remember how threatened this House was because it was a man from Parliament who wanted to make a coup. My personal opinion was, I said it a few times and I wanted to say it, and that's when I said it. At that moment, it was time to replace a member of the Bureau at his request. What I've said is, let's just look at the Federal Television "60 Minutes" about people, members of the presidency. Is there any abusive word in our language rich of all three peoples, that it is not spoken there for these people. I believe it isn't. And here we're talking to a man who has immunity because he was a member of the presidency. The only one of his is the Falinka that didn't adequately participate in the war. It's probably Mr. Jelavić's biggest problem. He was probably supposed to be in some places where this huge mess was created in the war and there were major crimes committed, and he didn't, probably that's the problem why he didn't do it, so maybe he'd be good. Maybe I can think this through. Why did it take two or three months to release the indictment? A man in prison, and the charges will be made public when we arrive. And here it's said he's been called to court for a year. You don't need to be a lawyer here, so you need to know the logic. For a healthy mind, a healthy man in his mind, he doesn't need the right, what in man honesty must come first. He says a year we called him and in that year Mr. Jelavić was at least five times regularly in the Sarajevo court. And then when all those ceremonies went to the great pompness of the media, the tickled topics, all of a sudden coming from the Constitutional Commission is not the court of 112 jurisdiction. But after a year. It's not the court's jurisdiction and it's all created climate as it is, I see there are those from the international community, I'd like them to hear, because I'm saying it not because of me, but because I think it's too honest. I don't have a single word, which I'm not going to say and say about the mounted political process in this case. So I am directly accusing SFOR and domestic institutions that have stepped into such a mounted political process in the case of Ante Jelavić. It's my personal point of view and that's what I'm not a lawyer for, but I'm a man with 55 years of life and experience. He's been through a lot of life problems, and that's what he's come up with. I resent the commission for not being consistent, which she no longer insisted on talking to and there with the people who were relevant in this. Here we get, we only get the record, that is, this report and it says, it tells us that we are it, you can look at it. So if we're so poor that we couldn't get it all, then I have to withdraw my opinion. But I don't think we're so poor, we couldn't get all that material, so I can come to my election base and confirm what I'm talking about today, that it's a politically mounted process. And I also want to say here, the cited quotes there on the page I think 2, where it's said that by group work, you know very nicely from Rankovic's time, by group work, and in connection with the planning of the future taking of operational measures, I did a little work at Udba, so this is all known to me, and the activities was run by the deputy commander of SAFOR and you see this chief clerk did not deliver the report. You know, and you're already deciding whether to vote for this report or not. I resent the commission, I wouldn't have done the report without SFOR and every day, like I do today, accuse SFOR that he made a political dence (?). I personally here as a parliamentarian and in this highly respected House, accuse him of committing a violation of this country's former member of the BiH presidency because he wants to discipline a nation in this country. This is the arrest of a sign to a people. The Italian forces of some Sforovian, while their immediate courts under the same elements on behalf of the Ministry of Police of the MUPA Federation took a commander of the SPJ, I don't know what it is or the troops of some and the head of the criminal police sector and he himself, and about this personal man I spoke of recently if you remember two, three questions I was about the murder and assassination and terrorist act of the murder of Minister Joza Leotar, here I was talking about. You remember that construction he said said, when the late Jozo Leotar was liquidated, then he tells the stories. He knows it's so convenient for someone to be killed, so it's a pretty good-looking thing to do. When he's qualified for one murder with a good look, he's told you all about this man who led this mob to do what she did. Maybe that's the problem. I just want to remind you, perhaps the problem with Ante Jelavić is that he is not Alžirac. Here's to asking that question, if he were really an Algerian man, maybe he'd be in this house with protection. She's not here. But I'm telling you, maybe that's the problem, I don't know. And the reminders, they keep talking in prison because he ran out of money and then says because he was involved in self-government. I took part in self-government, and I'm proud of that. And I'd do it again if it came to that. I wanted to take over that part of the government that belongs to me, that part of the government that belongs to me by election results. And here, too, I want to say that those who took over illegal power then accused them of destabilizing BiH because the military was disbanded. Today, the media, read today's daily paper, the same people are looking for a moratorium for five years, that we don't have 113 armies. Of being two-faced, without being a lawyer or not, it's enough for smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13715	Thank you very much, Mr. Felić. I apologize for Križanovic's replica, so Mr Bešlagić, so Felić. Is it the same replica? Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13716	I didn't find my colleague Novaković, I was called. And I do very rarely, I think this is the first, second time in this term as I replicate, but my colleague Jović says I have expressed concern if we find this report correct. I wish we could do that. I've just expressed concern that we have no elements to refuse or support this report. And in that sense, I suggested that one of our conclusions be to simply avoid a statement in this report and ask the Council of Ministers, since it is a very professional matter, an interpretation of the application of the law, the Council of Ministers has the Ministry of Justice, has the Ministry of Security, I think it would be quite appropriate to ask for such a report from them on this case of deprivement of freedom. I don't need to mention again, I really care that this Parliament is exercising constant control over legality and human rights. And don't give me what I didn't say. And using this for some political talk, I really don't think of it, I won't. to be replicated or semi-limised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13717	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Replica Mr. Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13718	For a short while, let me say, this fellow Jović that the intensity of this commission was not to determine the truth, it was neither her intention nor her task. So the commission didn't do the job. It is a measure to be decided by competent institutions, such as the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. What I wanted to tell Mr. Chairman, when he addressed me directly with a question, was there a violation of human rights, I told you in the introduction that we were primarily considering the procedure of respecting the law of the signed arrest procedure. Whether it was this one, or not, whether it was abuse or not, it's my opinion that the Director of the Police is acting on the order of the D.A.'s office, so we have an order from the Director of the Police, we have a warrant from the D.A.'s office. The director acted on the prosecutor's orders and we have an order, they can all get it, there's a file complete, interpreting how I read the BiH Federation's Internal Affairs Act, the police director didn't break the law. For this reason, I really cannot say no to point 5 of the text of the order of the Director of the Police Department is without question the illegal involvement of a special unit. Really, this isn't exactly what it says here. Because if we're going to read the law all the same, then we're going to interpret that the Director of the Police has the possibility of hiring a special unit without the minister's consent and without calling the canton. That's what the law says. Thank you very much. 114
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13719	I thank Mr. Felić. Mr Bešlagić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13720	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I will try to be very brief. I read this report and what I noticed was that, in fact, from eight points to six points, one member of the commission disagreed. Six points. If it were three members of the commission, and one in one, the other in the second, third in the third, I would say that's why I can't accept this report as a report that would remain incomplete. Here, Felić rises again, and we here, in fact, from eight points to five, we have a question as to whether it was the police's right to hire a special police force or not. In one point are human rights in which absolutely no matter who it is, what it is, that they have to comply with the rules, that human rights are not violated when someone is arrested. No matter where the prison goes. It's none of my business. Anyone who goes to jail is hard on him. But the essential thing is where we should get an answer to this question and that is why I liked the proposal made by Mr Križanović, to refer this material to the Council of Ministers. So Minister Čolak, i.e. for security, for him to check these things out and give us back this material done with these things or our commission once again to agree, in which we will have something that we can accept as a unique position. Another problem that came to mind here in the very report here in the report, this point 3 that Halid Genjac, once again appears one thing that leads me to doubt some of the things that we are constantly talking about protecting some, I don't know who they're protecting, but just so Halid Genjac came out of this commission that was put out by the House of Peoples is whether or not, which the two commissions were doing parallel. For these reasons, I believe that it is Mr Križanović's proposal to refer this material to the Council of Ministers and that they mean these things to us and to come back to us through the commission and then to adopt this report with this recommendation which was to continue to go into the process of these ministries which concern this debate. Here, as much as I would like to comment on nothing else, or to call on anyone, but I thought for me, it's symptomatic that in this whole report, one member of the commission can, in fact, freely say vetoed, almost at all conclusions, which means the commission didn't do its job. Here's the thing, this report that I, as seliti Bešlagić, can say with pleasure I accept or do not accept. That's what makes it a little harder for me, and that's why I'm proposing Mr. Križanović's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13721	Replica, thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić, Mr. Zorić's replica. Before the replica, I have to inform you that the College has a very important meeting with the State Department delegation for half an hour, we're going to take a break after Mr. Zorć, and we have replicas, and then we have a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13722	Here I was just trying to replicate to Mr. Bešlagić that Mr. Halid Genjac from the other House came out of the commission that 115 that Dom formed had nothing to do with this report. And Mr Andrić came out of the delegation in the Central European initiative we didn't say that, but we're not going to the European initiative or Muratović came out of this Parliament, so we didn't say he wasn't going to be this anymore, there won't be any more Council of Europe because he was also the head of the delegation in the Council of Europe or there will be this Parliament. So it doesn't matter what any of the members, especially the other House, left the commission, that commission also continued to work. So don't be here, this one says things that and that someone hasn't been to certain points, it doesn't have anything to do with it again. What if they'd written in the report that most of this is this, and I'll talk later in my debate about the report and all the other things. So let's not talk here as little kids, eh, here's Genjac, what does that mean? Well, that's something ugly, so even the Genjac is getting away, I understand that. I understand it that way and, uh, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13723	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrić, replica. Short, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13724	Here I am part of the replica I took from Mr. Zorić. It's completely irrelevant that Mr. Genjac left because if you remember when we asked for an extension of the commission's work we explained. The Commission is working together not in parallel but in common, a member of the committee from the House of Peoples Mr Halid Genjac resigned, explaining that he was appointed without consultation. That's not what I'm getting into. What difference does it make? Mr. Brk has been appointed, but I'm more concerned that the same views, since where we report here in our report to Felić, we have Mr. Brk's views there. And that's what might not be good, which is a little bit obvious that on another line there's a reservation against this one. And my real replica would basically refer to my colleague from the commission, Mr. Felić. We discussed it on the committee. What Mr. Felić... that the director has the power to hire special police, in particularly high-risk situations, to help the KRIM police sector, it's undeniable, that no one has slowed down. However, it is disputed that Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be amended accordingly. The federal law on internal affairs is said to be internal affairs with... The Federal Ministry is: preventing and detecting the criminal acts of terrorism, placing an international crime on the market of intoxicating drugs and organised crime, and finding and catching the perpetrators of these crimes, bringing them to the authorities. And then, Article 3 says, what organised crime is, so it says, organised crime refers to organised crime as defined in the Law of the Supreme Court of BiH, which has been amended by law supplementing and amending the BiH Supreme Court Act, the Federation of BiH has been replaced by additions to the law, where there is a clear indication of what organised crime means. So, it's not that the director has no right to hire that assistance, it's about a business outside the jurisdiction of the Federal Ministry of State. Therefore, the director of the police should have returned the fine order to the gentleman who gave it and told it, pardon but it is not our jurisdiction, please refer to the authorities and quote, BiH Criminal Procedure Act Article 125(3), which says, the court order is carried out by the judicial police and not brought by persons who are allegedly not responding, specialists and special, high-level units. That's the problem. That's the point of the problem, and that's where we're thinking. When I claim that there has been a violation of the law and Mr Felić argues that it is not and I ask you, I have no objection that the highest experts and experts give this to make 116 clear, and if anyone thinks that in any part of our report we may have strayed into the area of the judicial authority, I am truly sorry and please indicate that wherever you notice it, we will eliminate it, so no one is sinless. And I also want to tell Mr. Jaferovic to a respected lawyer, who has 16 years of professional experience, I respect that but whatever, I was a member of the committee in case of a coup, so I don't think anyone from the House has challenged my expertise or moral questioning or anything else. Then we talked a little differently, and the truth is, I don't have any working experience in the judiciary, I don't have a place there, and I hope I don't even work there.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13725	Thank you very much. Please, at half past four, we'll continue. We'll finish work today. You can freshen up a bit. Here we go. It's important. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] I thank you for your patience. I can briefly tell you that we have had a truly high-quality meeting with a very important person, it is the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the State Department, on the important issues of reforming BiH's position and the discussion will continue here and in the United States, and it is quite certain to recognise this one progress in BiH, and also on the role of Parliament, why we are all responsible here. Whoever further, if there are any further reported in the debate, forgive me first is Mr Zorić, so Mr Špirić, it is the order. I apologize to the head of the club for asking if there's been any complaints at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13726	I checked in earlier, and I don't think I'm gonna be long. The commission we appointed at the session here, this, our House, consisting of Mr. Felić, Jovanović and Andrić, has made a report that I do not claim is good, bad, true, untrue, however, a commission that worked here for almost half a year, up to four months and held seven sessions here, is to submit a report to this House. So they were doing something, and we should file a report. And I think there are a lot of exact things here, a lot of things that aren't at all about knowing or not knowing legal or judicial norms, and I think this job should lead to the end, but not half or not by some kind of rough revote of this or that. I don't know what the majority is for, but I'm not that if six points are questionable for one member of the committee, I'm not here to bid on it right now. However, I am in favour of making a report, which means that this commission continues to work together with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security and that we are given the right report, that we know. So let these experts evaluate what was in this process, and it might also be good for this Parliament to continue to follow this process. I don't think it matters to any of the states in this world if there's a lawsuit against a member of the presidency. We 117 know what kind of people in the other one, countries not to say privileges and everything else have former presidents, former members of the presidency, and that's my suggestion. So, to continue the work, to submit a report to this House, but one of our conclusions would be to deliver this report to these ministries, so the judiciary and security, together representatives of these two ministries and this committee, to draw conclusions for this House that we will discuss. I don't think this is a subject or a problem here, so urgent. If she could wait until today, this one, I was just a moment ago when I answered the word, said that almost everything my colleague Križanović said here, that I would accept here with this one supplement to get both the report and the conclusions, regardless of what they are. I want this one to be true. Maybe someone would, I'm not saying there's nothing in politics. Maybe someone would like them to be guilty but it's not the subject of this, this investigation committee, it's not the subject of determining whether someone is guilty or not. That's what the court will do. I do not think at all that this commission or this mentioned two ministries are bound to the court, but only to determine these two issues that are here, which have interested this Parliamentary House of BiH and for this reason we have formed the Research Commission. And the two questions were whether the law laid down procedures for arrests and the second, whether there were violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the case of arrests. We're not interested in anything else. And possibly if there are conclusions, there is. If there's no thank Bog, it's not over. I don't think we should be here, this one, before we end up being emotional. I wish these people weren't guilty and free. And I'd like them to be free if they're guilty, to defend themselves from freedom, but that's my opinion. We have this investigative committee for these reasons that I have just read, formed and let's oblige them to finish this job, and instead of keeping us here some kind of politician or I don't know what you're talking about, and whatever you want to talk about, to finish the 39th and 40th session that we've met here today, because if we see, and I don't think we're going to go to the goal, let's postpone this, and I repeat here three times and put our investigation committee in charge, the report doesn't have to be in this form, so to a determined and important observation of the commission, I guess until then nothing is disputed. From there it may be a completely different report, but I would like it to be brought with a consensus and that these experts from the Justice and Security Department say what they think about all this, because it's undeniable, for example. in point 1, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Security has not been informed at all, and has been stated at a joint session of both homes. So it's not controversial and why it wouldn't be in the report here, etc. Perhaps if we were to have this conversation here, it would be very clear, and if it were possible today and I saw that there was no readiness or any dilemma, that we were not to make a statement at all about this, that Mr. Chairman and members of the College would accept the other colleagues and colleagues, accept this proposal, so that this issue at one of the next sessions would be absorbed and today we should continue to work on the 39th and 40th sessions. Here, this is my humble contribution, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13727	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Nikola Špirić, please. Are there any more reported? There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13728	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, of course, I will not participate in the debate, but the proposal seems to me to be good, it seems to me that it is good to have a debate because you see at the beginning when a high temperature is created that in the end you can always get a good solution, and that is why I am never nervous when colleagues argue, no matter whose attitude and never the speed of the rabbit has been caught but the mark. And therefore, I think that this proposal by my colleague Zorić, and he is on track for what Mr Križanović was talking about, is good, but he may be in this sense that this report, not that the commission sits down again and does something, delivers to the Justice Ministry, the Ministry of Security, that they say that the random commission did not enter what the court's jurisdiction is. So let us resolve this dilemma and return this report to the commission, so that it sees whether attitudes should be changed, shaped and delivered to Parliament again. But I think it was good that we had a debate, no matter what kind of attitudes he took, I'm a man, as far as I'm concerned, all prisons could be disbanded. So I'm not a fan of people's closures, but in the rule of law, someone has to be responsible for something he's done. So here is the clue to conclude that this report is therefore delivered to the BiH Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security, that they send feedback to the commission, that the commission sits down again, see if something needs to be changed and delivered to Parliament. That's what we'd avoid today, I'm ready today, and I'm willing to do this in a different way, but it seems to me that this was a better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13729	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13730	I'm grateful, I'd just like to offer to think one conclusion. In BiH, in an unfortunate war, thousands of sacral objects collapsed. A priest held back in Mostar to rebuild the collapsed church and went to prison. I'm asking, the international executioner when he's gonna call the one who knocked down the church?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13731	Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13732	I don't know, intervene when one of my colleagues from other clubs says something, so I'm gonna do it now. Miro, this is not the subject of the Investigative Commission, this is what you ask as a representative's question and let's concentrate on one conclusion, and here I leave it to the College that based on my and Špirićev and Jozine's, you will ask this question at the next session in the form of a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13733	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13734	Honorable MPs,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13735	Please just locate yourself now on the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13736	I'll do it very briefly. The distinguished representative and chairman of the Demokršćanin Club, you misstated, when we had a similar commission investigating, when there was a coup on the question, whether or not it was, I said on that occasion the allegations that were made after this speaker. If you remember there was a mouse born and it was shaking worse, I said it was an alleged, no cats. And I'm asking now, there's no cadium. I want a cadiya to see in this file that the Bureau of Investigation is working on. That was my inquiry. My request to the esteemed representative was very constructive for the commission's work. I want to see the employer and the actions that I think are suspicious and we have to enlighten them otherwise we haven't done anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13737	Thank you very much. Head of the commission, Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13738	Well, I thank you, we listened very carefully to Mr Zorić's proposal and Mr Križanović's earlier, and I have consulted with the other two members of the commission and we are absolutely in agreement. We'd be the luckiest if we had an absolute consensus there, and I hope here's the conclusion of the House that we'll be able to do it. What I was about to say is that we from the commission accept this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13739	Thank you very much. I therefore propose, since we had a few conclusions to end this agenda point in the manner that Mr Križanović, Zorić and Špirić proposed. Now we see that the established committee accepts that part, that this report, that we do not declare ourselves today on the report. To refer this report to the BiH Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security on the trail of discussions that were here, to comment from relevant institutions on the issues of relations between certain parts of the government. That we here today without that grade don't conclude and that based on that, then we determine ourselves on that report when we get that kind of grade. Can we do that? I'm putting this conclusion to the vote. Vote now. With 25 votes for, no one against, three abstentions, enough of the entity, we accepted this conclusion. I thank the MPs. We had another conclusion, Mrs. Palavrić. I'll read it. It is due to the BiH Finance Ministry that the surplus funds that exist at the Regulatory Agency for Communications, amounting to 4 million KM in accordance with the law, are directed towards the SIP- and with the aim of setting it up as quickly as possible in full capacity. 120 He was here in the debate, does anyone want to make this conclusion, or should we direct this conclusion to the Finance and Budget Committee? Can you accept it? I think it's useful. I suggest that Dom direct this conclusion to the competent commission and that the Commission on this matter is positive, creating conditions for SIP's work but here's how we don't prejudge the amounts and mechanisms, let's talk about it. Thank you very much. We don't have to make a statement about this. Thank you very much. We're done with the third item of the agenda. We're going to the fourth, that's Ad.4. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the application of BiH law in 2003 You received that information. At the meeting, we called the D.A.'s representative. If there are any questions from the MPs, I'm opening the debate. Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13740	I will be very brief in respect of the time and patience of the people but such important information certainly merits our attention too. So, first of all, I welcome that this report has come to us on the agenda, although it is time for me to say it rather vehemently in relation to the period being processed, but this is still one sign of the prosecutor's relationship, that is, the judicial system towards Parliament. He made it possible in my opinion to understand the position of prosecutorial function I'm probably talking to myself about, I didn't fully understand it. I'd like to ask a few questions about this, Mr. Proposer, the Attorney General, and they're next. So why aren't all the prosecutors appointed in '93? And why did the prosecution only work with four prosecutors? In 2003, I'm sorry. Obviously, the D.A. was very disabled. Why aren't these expert advisors involved, experts who, in my opinion, are not only under the conditions of efficiency but also the competence of the prosecution, because I just think it's worth investing in this structure in every country. When it comes to the conclusions proposed in this report, they are all acceptable to me except for the first one, i.e. i will not say that it is not acceptable for me but should be checked, consulted by the Financial and Treasury Siministration and other financial structures, whether or not the concept of a uniform approach to the use of public funds at the state level is destroyed, if they form special laws on judicial and prosecutorial budgets at different levels, and in principle all other proposals of conclusions would be supported by what would be good if we immediately identify what structures these are to implement these proposed conclusions. In my opinion, most of this should be realised and carried by the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Justice. In any case, then, when it comes to the Party for BiH Club, we will, of course, support this report and welcome the start of this practice, we hope that this is just the beginning of the practice and who has carefully read this report, some things might, in relation to 121 previous discussions, be different, probably foreordain to say so. Here, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13741	Thank you very much, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Anybody want to move on? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13742	My colleagues and colleagues, I won't be long. The report's interesting. He's fine, so he came to this house. I have two questions. It is known that one of the foundations, the fundamental principles in Criminal Law, and we are talking about the report on the work of the Prosecutor's Office,...the regulation of innocence, so the assumption of innocence as one of the instruments of protection to say so, the rights of the citizens is whether. Here's what happened today. Also, one of the principles that applies in this country and should apply is the public's right to inform and about potential perpetrators of crimes. I have found grades and certain qualifications in this report that touch both principles. I would really like to say very clearly from a professional point of view and from the point of view of Parliament as a legislative body, possibly from Mr Prosecutor, we hear whether there are professional dilemmas about respect and respect for one and another principles because we are witnessing that sometimes it seems that there seems to be an unskilled approach and sometimes a question arises whether the principle and assumptions of innocence is protected, or whether it is also protected from public rights to information about what is happening and about the perpetrators of certain crimes. This is therefore more a question for the thinking and professional competent public, but this is also the case in this report. I really think it would be interesting to hear whether, given the legislation that we have adopted, whether at least we have helped those who have to apply the laws that we are adopting as Parliament, and we are also making the law in the area of criminal law but also the rights of citizens to information, so whether we have done the thing in a way that makes their job easier. And the other thing, and it is current in this House in some way, and we have been involved in it but never in one yet direct way, at least not in the tide. On page 11, there's some interesting information, and I'll point it out. The BiH Court, according to the prosecution's proposal, is said to have taken 200kg. Intoxicating marijuana and being taken from three persons, it took away from three persons the damaged anti-legal property benefit of 59,192,50 km and imposed two fines as... I am also interested in this, because we had some kind of debate here, so I am interested in the prosecution's assessment of whether it is possible to effectively apply the provisions of criminal law in that section that speaks of the confiscation of the anti-legal property benefit of this, in order to eventually resolve a dilemma that was, some MPs will remember, concerning this issue, so rather than a professional approach very often, there were more political qualifications on the agenda. So, I'm interested in just from the point of view of instruments, which in one important state institution as the Prosecutor's Office and the courts at your disposal and here is the reference to whether it is necessary here, whether things can be fixed, complemented, so that 122 of these and these measures could be effectively used in the section when it comes to possibilities and grounds for confiscation of anti-legal property benefits. Here it is mentioned, and I suppose that this property benefit has been achieved by this criminal act, this is, is not allowed by trade and what, intoxicated drugs, but we're asking it as a principle issue and I'm really using the opportunity, so maybe even though this is a topic perhaps for a wider discussion that if it were a summit of the required Mr. Prosecutor would refer to these two questions and at least some of the indications about it says so. Otherwise, the report is substantive, and in any case it is very useful that the Parliamentary Assembly is able to take it into account if there is nothing to know, and especially if this one is, in the debate, possibly made possible or it is assessed that certain things should be clarified, precise and not only accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13743	Thank you very much, Mr. Ćeman. No more, Mr. Križanović. Please report in time so we can, not Mr. Novaković's office, did you see him? You're not. So there's only Mr. Križanović reported, then I'll give you my word if you want to give answers on behalf of the D.A.'s office and eventually. Here you go, Mr. Skrižanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13744	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be real quick. I want first of all to say that I am pleased to have a report like this today that is here I will agree with my colleagues very contentable, good with a lot of data and a lot of observation on the problems of the prosecution's functioning. I had one question that my colleague, Ćeman, had, in part, elaborated. It refers to the height of the seized property. The question would be whether BiH is institutionally regulated, including the Criminal Law and the Institution and the Prosecutor's Office, etc. that more effective measures are taken according to the confiscation of actually illegally damaged assets. This information, of the 59 grand in marks, does not really encourage us in the area all year, and I think it will be a pretty strong argument when we discuss at the next session the need to set up a special agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13745	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? No more reports. I thank you for closing the debate. Here you go, if there were a few questions, I think it's your turn and I'd like you to introduce yourself for a stenogram. I know, I know, Mr. Jurčević, but here's for the counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13746	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce myself and elaborate this report in short lines. I know the sources that it's already tiring, and so I'm going to try not to elaborate it, but to try to answer these questions and point to certain things, to see at which point and where the Prosecutor's Office is now in BiH. I think it's very important and very important for you MPs. 123 I am pleased that even on this finding, the prosecution is in contact with you, and that is our legal obligation, and they have just called, who has read this report, or information, that under the Law on the Prosecutor's Office we are obliged to deliver this report and it is also delivered in this form as it is. The paper is that this report is not adopted, but that it is delivered in the form of this information, so that it also bears in its name the name Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. As for these issues asked by Mr Belkić, I would say that the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council when it was passed, those who were members of that council, estimated that the BiH Prosecutor's Office in 2003 would not have enough cases at the beginning, and that led them to fail to appoint a sufficient number of prosecutors at the BiH Prosecutor's Office immediately. I am responsibly saying that even then, they pointed out that they had made an oversight, we, it, it turned out, so that we had to take a series of activities and steps towards a new appointment of prosecutors. It is one procedure that lasts at least 4 to 5 months, and yet in the end we managed to name the new prosecutors, with the need for an additional appointment being reiterated, and the procedure is now under way to appoint three more prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. As for the involvement of professional advisors, we have been working for many years in the judiciary and I think it is high time to think seriously in all judicial institutions and especially at the level of state and entity level, that courts and prosecutors need and must have expert advisers. The beauty of crime is not classic in the sense that someone goes into the woods and visits a pine tree and then this criminal-legal trial is done by whoever did it. Now they're quite different and different types of crime, especially organised crime that is intruding into all the pores of life and by vertical and horizontal, and they're intruding into everything by saying the visions of intellectual and various other movements. Prosecutors and judges are not enough to say, educated to know this, all possible professions and for these reasons they need criminals, they need engineers to help in certain things, and they need particularly graduated economists. And for these reasons, we have installed in the rules on the internal affairs of the BiH Prosecutor's Office to allow us a space for the employment of these professional associates, and that rule passed, adopted so that the BiH Prosecutor's Office was in a position to appoint, or to find a graduate criminal, and I can tell you that it was an extremely good hit. So we're going to go very quickly to open up another economist's recruitment competition that we need when it comes to these crimes of property character. As for Mr. Ćeman's issues, whether there are real dilemmas, professional dilemmas between one or another issue,....innocentness and the public's right to information, I think that we are in the BiH Prosecutor's Office extremely cautiously entering the process of accusing persons. The new Code of Criminal Procedure is so conceptual that investigations can now be conducted against both known and unknown perpetrators of criminal offences and based on this, so-called concept law we this one, and we conduct these investigations. However, no legal consequences arise for persons investigating the unknown perpetrator. So it's strictly taken care of and never in the investigation at least while I'm in the D.A.'s office, we haven't dated any information that could be manipulated. We stick to the code of ethical behavior of the prosecution, only to go out with the shrewd information as much as it takes for the public to be informed. 124 As far as Mr Križanović's questions are concerned, it seems to me that others have also asked a question concerning this property-law, confiscation of property benefit obtained by criminal acts, and whether this, intrumentary is based on the Law on criminal proceedings so that it is good and that it can be taken in an effective way, anti-legal property benefit. I personally think that he is very good only when it comes to the property benefit being taken away if it is obtained by criminal acts, so here we have really good built-in mechanisms through the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law of BiH and allow us to succeed in confiscation of the anti-legal property benefit. However, there is quite a conditionality, so I say illegal actions and activities resulting in someone committing a criminal offence but you cannot come up with valid and quality evidence based on which evidence could prosecute someone and in this procedure take away the anti-legal property benefit. So in that direction, I don't think that this second segment has been sufficiently processed either through the Criminal Procedure Act, and I think that these discussions that were led earlier to the adoption of some special law, and I support them and this, I think they're very justified. I would like to draw attention to and direct your attention to one segment, I am sorry that none of you have this, elaborated it, and I think it is very important and this Parlement should strengthen it by saying, both the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH, and this is especially the conclusion of point 3 which reads – to create conditions for the processing of crimes against humanity and the values protected by international law, through the establishment of a special department of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for the processing of these crimes. Forgive me if I may say three, four sentences in that direction, and with my word and my reasons for telling you. I was offered today by the discussion of one of the MPs who said, one goes to the other middle, in the other middle I at least understood so, forgive me one of them arrests the other and then brings them to the other, I thought I didn't speak Hrvat, Srbin and Bošnjak now, but I think it alluded in that direction. What am I trying to say? What I'm saying is that at the level of the BiH state, we don't have the capacity for detention, we don't have the capacity for prison. The polemics are being strongly conducted in both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, I will also tell you openly with OHR representatives, because they allow us in this direction to find accommodation facilities when it comes to detention and when it comes to prison. So, when that detention and prison is applied therefore to the jurisdiction of the BiH Court of Justice. I ask you to think carefully and try to help at BiH level to find the possibility that the BiH Court can have, or at the level of the BiH state, we can have detention and prison rooms, so that what I heard today is that each other's arrests lead to another environment and bring in a third. As far as the BiH Prosecutor's Office is concerned, and when it comes to this type of crime, I will tell you that we are taking up maximum activities and we are regularly in coordination with The Hague tribunal, I will also tell you again with the OHR on the implementation or formation of this war crimes department. I mean, we can't create dynamics to do it the way I'd like it or maybe as you'd like it, it has its own fixed dynamics and we can't jump in that direction. Namely, one Department Implementation Council, both the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, has been formed in 125 which department will, according to all my knowledge, be prosecutors both domestic and international. As for the cases that will belong to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, certain commissions that need to pass certain rules both in the material Criminal Law and in the procedural law will now go with a proposal with amendments and additions to both the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act. Even in that direction, I wish these kinds of raps were being conducted here and that you were proposing amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH and the Criminal Law of BiH. I don't know if they gave you or didn't give you, but I am ready and willing to deliver the drafts of those blueprints so that in this direction Parliament can see who needs to create the preconditions, both material, so formal, that we can take over certain items that are being led to The Hague tribunal. I'm just going to give you two more information just to see this one, which the figure person is dealing with, which is the basis for the suspicion that they committed these crimes. In fact, I'm left with it worse, I know by heart, in the Federation of BiH on condition that I'm sorry, there are about 7.5 thousand people in the drum, so on the grounds of suspicion that they committed a crime. There are about 2.5 thousand people in Republika Srpska, so when you add those two digits, then you'll see what the number of people that have the basics of doubt is. Please, I'll tell you this too, I don't know what you're alluding to, a lot of people have been prosecuted in the Federation of BiH for this type of crime and there's been a lot of penalties pronounced unlike the RS where only this one has been prosecuted, written only 3 indictments and unfortunately no person has been convicted. Let me just tell you about the cases that will be in the jurisdiction of the Prosecutor's Office or the Court of Justice of BiH. By all odds, there's gonna be three more sentences, and I'm done. So this department of the D.A. and the Court should be operational by all estimates at the beginning of next year. The prosecution, or the BiH Court of Justice, will be in charge of three types of cases. The first kind of case, I think it's good that you know, I don't know if I'm sorry to tell you, but the first group of cases will be cases where the Hague prosecutor wrote the indictment and which has been confirmed by The Hague tribunal. This will therefore determine the number of cases of the indictment, these are not charges filed by domestic prosecutors, but are charges which we will take over from the UN tribunal. The second group of cases will be cases where the Hague prosecutor opened an investigation and the investigation is at a certain stage, whether it came to the middle or to the end, I don't know but that group of cases will also be delivered to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. The third group of cases, these are cases which have been done by national courts and national prosecutors, and this is exactly the number I said to 9.5 thousand or thousands of people, is now going to need to be seen which are the cases that can be, which will be taken over by the BiH Prosecutor's Office and which are the cases, which will not be taken over or delivered to the competent cantonal prosecutors. 126 In this direction, one law will be adopted on the basis of which a criterion will be made, a criterion of insensitivity, sensitivity and very sensitive objects and in the Prosecutor's Office would have to be read and determined on the basis of these criteria whether they are classified in the category of insensitive, sensitive or very sensitive, and it would only decide whether to take over the BiH Prosecutor's Office or not, or to deliver them to the local and local prosecutors. I had this, I wanted to tell you this, and I ask you in this direction, it would be good for this Parliament to take steps and help as much quality and better work as possible, both the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13747	I thank the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor General, Mr Marinko Jurčević for this truly exhaustive and answers and explanations in which the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which are planable, which are obligations, what are capacities and what are expectations. I can say whatever is in accordance with Article 10. The Prosecution Act takes this information or this report into account, that it was useful that the MPs asked questions and that it was useful to get this kind of explanation. What I can say by looking at the proposal for measures in this report and the activities in point 4 in order to create assumptions and conditions for a more effective exercise of the prosecutor's duty, there are things directly related to Parliament, and I think that today we should say that we will actively support this information and the proposal for measures. I think that's the minimum we need to say today that when it comes to changing laws or passing new laws, and in terms of creating common conditions for the functioning of this very important judicial truth. And here, that would be the House's proposal for a hearing. I think it was useful that we today, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13748	...I have a quick question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13749	Well, I think we're done, Mr. Jusufović, but here you go, Mr. Jusufović, I didn't say that, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13750	I am using the presence of the state prosecutor, Mr Jurčević, and esteeming that of the last sentence, their intention that you have already entered into the conclusion and this one, to suspend as successful as possible co-operation with this Parliament in terms of amending the law, etc. I think we should say hello, because for the first time we've seen the prosecutor and some other organs that are ours, we haven't seen anyone, but I actually welcome and I want one answer, and I do. I hope they'll be interested in the others, because they can give a credible answer. 127 Mr. Prosecutor is aware that we recently passed the Law on the establishment of a High Court and Prosecutor's Council. I'm interested because we heard in the paper that for some authorities, because here OHR has brutally violated this law and illegally informed that council, I have to repeat it over and over again, and interestingly all some newspapers are doing it, and some MPs here are obliging themselves, never asking, and we don't know... I wonder if you are in accordance with the law that we have adopted, selected a member or a proposal from the Prosecutor's Office because you belong to one place under that law or have possibly been assigned by a clerk or a clerk from the international community as we read and clearly said in the BiH Bar, or the BiH Bar of Lawyers, have received a letter and says, you will choose that too. I'm interested in this because I'm going to have my relationship with that institution, depending on the answer. If there's more to be explained, let me explain. Have you been chosen by anyone or by you by law, I want an honest answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13751	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jurčević. Here's another Mr. Ivo Miro Jović. Any more questions? And Mr. Šefik Džaferović, before I give my word to Mr. Jurčević and I have already formed the conclusion. Here you go, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13752	I'd like to ask Mr. Prosecutor, is this the report of the component and the part that works from the international community, Deputy Prosecutor Mekner? And I'm asking if this gentleman is under the authority of the D.A.'s president or not, or the president of the D.A.'s office? I think you understand me. Accordingly, then I would ask for what we had before, did you know as the president of the prosecution that this would happen with Mr Jelavić and the group(?) and the particular question, is it known to you as a prosecutor, and to me as a citizen, is that there are people in prison in BiH in detention units and not in prison, the type of prison that have been sentenced to 20 years, and for 7 years they have been in custody and not in prison? So according to this lesson in this country, the most important thing is your name.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13753	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13754	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this report, or information from the prosecution, in my opinion, is actually not at all controversial. It illustrates the state of the prosecution, the state of affairs, I would say some logical conclusions and suggestions, and I think that Parliament should certainly support it and I hope that we will do so. What I would like to suggest, and I didn't see it, I decided to say something on the subject in the end. I did not see in the proposal of these measures, referring to the following, namely, in early 2003, or in the first half of 2003, we adopted new criminal legislation in BiH and the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law, which was applied by the BiH Court, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and later, following these 128 laws and modelling our laws and harmonising their laws with these laws and entities. In BiH, from the aspect of monitoring such social phenomena, here is one very important thing that has happened, it has actually changed the entire system of criminal proceedings. By the start of last year, we had this Eurocontinental school or the Eurocontinental system of criminal procedures in BiH. We today have something that represents a mixture between what we call Anglo-Saxon and what we had in BiH called Eurocontinental Criminal Procedure. It is, of course, a very important thing from the aspect of monitoring phenomena in society. And I think it would be useful for us to maybe conclude today or here just to say it out loud so that I can say it here if we have the opportunity to discuss the Court of Justice, to monitor or make up an analysis of the BiH Court of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Security, Parliament, the Council of Ministers, to make an analysis of the effects and effects and the impact on the state of society, and the amended procedures. We have applied one system in BiH for 40 years to 35 years and now another system is in place. From the point of view of the effectiveness of the criminal procedure from the point of view of general or general prevention when it comes to crime in BiH, I am now not explaining it. So I suggest that I think it would be useful, if we had that thing as an analysis maybe every year or what I know every year, how long it takes for these phenomena to be properly analyzed in society. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13755	Thank you. No more reports. Please, Mr. Jurčević, we had further questions, suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13756	I could've answered that from a place like this, but come on. As far as the first question is concerned, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. I'll say the next one. This is not a bit of a curtsy on my part, I am one of the angry advocates to build a BiH state and that at the level of the BiH state institutions should develop. And maximum, I was one year, less than a year a member of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council at BiH level, because then three councils insisted, so one for the Federation or the Republika Srpska, and I noticed a lot of shortcomings and I tried and showed that it would be necessary to bring one council to BiH level. And persistently, not only by my hard work and work but by the work and colleagues who supported me, I'm glad that there has been this, the establishment of this council. Now I'm going to say one little depression, and I'm also one of the angry advocates against four criminal proceedings in the BiH area and I live for the day when I'm going to experience that we have one BiH law and one law on BiH's criminal proceedings throughout BiH. We've now done some harmonisation, but we need to move on to bring it to an end, get to one law on criminal proceedings and one criminal code. I hope you'll discuss it very quickly in this room and make this decision that this is going in that direction. 129 I now answer directly to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, which was adopted at BiH level, and I honestly tell you that I, in the position I am, received from the High Court, am thinking of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, received a letter asking the BiH Prosecutor's Office not to nominate three delegates in the Supreme Prosecutor's Council, from which they will nominate only one. And I was told, or written to nominate one Srbin, one Hrvat and one Bošnjak. On the basis of such a letter from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, and we in the BiH Prosecutor's Office held the College of All Prosecutors and made a decision and nominated three delegates to this council and delivered their names and names. I can speak responsibly from this pay phone that of those three, one is named in the name of Nadžide Krese, who is a member of the council. So I can only speak on behalf of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, for other institutions I don't know. Another question concerning Mr. Jović's question, I think. You asked the question, just remind me, forgive me. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13757	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13758	Is Mekner, in a word, a word to you. Within the BiH Prosecutor's Office, there are three departments. One of these departments is the Department of Corruption of Organized Crime and Economic Crime. He is head of the department's deputy department, and within that department are international prosecutors. The deputy, therefore, is in the post of deputy and Mr. Mekner. The department is therefore functioning within the BiH Prosecutor's Office but have internal rules of functioning for the department. And I don't know, there was another one I thought was Ivo.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13759	Your D.A.'s microphone is not on and we're going through this report and that department at the same time. That's what I wanted to ask. So, second, do you, as chairman of the D.A.'s office, have orders under some legal regulations or is that a matter of agreement, agreement or something? That means my first question was.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13760	Within the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the prosecution's head is BiH's chief prosecutor. He has three departments within the BiH Prosecutor's Office and three deputy prosecutors are headed by the department and the BiH prosecutor is inside. One of those departments he's headed for is Mr. Mekner. It's the odjelenje of Economic Crime, Organized Crime and Economic Crime. And there are now international prosecutors in that department. The work relationship between the department and the BiH Prosecutor's Office is regulated under the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, which states that it, the department, operates on the basis of internal rules prescribed by this special department. And that function just came true the way I said. There was one more question, but, eh, this 130 Ivo
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13761	I asked if the gentleman knew about this,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13762	I'd just like to tell Mr. Šefik more about the visa of the new Criminal Procedure Act and whether the effects are achieved through this Criminal Procedure Act. It is difficult to give a relevant answer right now because based on the new Code of Criminal Procedure, we function from an opportunity not full for a year. However, it is also true that what Mr. Šefik said was about that combination of Anglo-American and continental rights and that certain institutes from both rights were incorporated into this new Criminal Procedure Act and all with the aim of making this criminal procedure as effective as possible without being at the expense of human rights violations. One of the institutes is also a confession of guilt and we, I will also tell you of my general surprise through the conduct of the investigation and the prosecution of these charges we have a lot of requests from the defendants and defenders accused of making agreements with the BiH prosecutor on the terms of the plea. I'm responsibly telling you that neither one of us has had any instructions towards either the defendant or the suspect that we're going to conclude a plea agreement. They're all being directed by the defendants to us. Probably faced with the evidence they see, then it's worth it to them to go to a deal with the prosecutor and I think it's now at this point I can say that it's quite an effective measure that goes towards speeding up and costing the criminal proceedings. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13763	Mr. Jović, you'll get your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13764	I don't know about this information you're saying, I kindly ask you to give us everything in writing, deliver it to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and make sure we take all the steps and that you will be informed in time and time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13765	I would like to thank Mr. Marinko Jurčević once again. And I suggest that conclusion, I think we can accept it which I have already said, regarding this report and Parliament's role in this whole important issue. Can we take it? Is there a need to plead? Okay, so the conclusion is that we are receiving this information, this report to the knowledge, that this report is supported by a proposal for measures and activities that it contains, it has. In particular, it is point 4. which refers to the necessity of certain changes and the adoption of certain legal solutions that are specified here. So there's no abstraction at all, which is on the verge of more effective performance of the prosecutor's office. I don't think there's anything controversial here. Mr. Novaković. 131
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13766	Mr. Chairman, I understand that we are taking this report into consideration and I am prepared to support some of the conclusions that say that I am taking this report into consideration. Everything the D.A. said would be subject to serious debates here today, which I didn't want to go into. So, I'm not because for me there's a lot of what he said on the big question, and secondly because I personally think that beating up the chief prosecutor wasn't in the spirit of the agenda point, but part of the grade. But I didn't want to discuss it, and that's why I'm not prepared to bring conclusions like this, but I'm prepared to take note of this report and what will be done in this report and in these conclusions, it will be done in accordance with the law, so it will be done in accordance with the law, when it comes to that, then I will plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13767	Thank you very much. I would like to say, as chairman, that according to the Rules of Procedure, we are receiving this report to the knowledge and it is a fundamental role and we are going to do it today and I am now going to say that there is no need now for me to propose a certain type of proposal if there is a reservation to it. There is no need, because it is not, it is outside of the Rules of Procedure but my intensity was that Parliament's role in creating conditions for the better work of the Prosecutor's Office and whether we vote today or not, we will work as Parliament. Here, can we end this way? Absolutely this one, I think that's it, so please just make it clear that this report is being taken into account. I'm asking the MPs to make a statement about it. Vote now. Here I am saying with 25 votes for, without votes against, and 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority, the House of Representatives has therefore accepted the BiH Prosecutor's Report for 2003. I'm thanking you one more time. We will be in communication, and regardless of the fact that today we do not have the obligation to accept any of these measures explicitly, it is quite certain that many of these initiatives and measures will come on the agenda of this home and there will be room for further cooperation and communication. This is how I close the fourth item of the agenda. We're going to the fifth, that's Ad.5. The report on the financial operations of the Public Business "The Official Journal of BiH" by the 2003 annual account We have here, therefore, before you a report, in time. We have here on behalf of us, we have representatives of the Official List and that is Mr. Franjo Tolić, the chairman of the Management Board and Mr. Huremović Mehmedalija, vršioac direktor of "The Official Messenger". 132 If there are questions and needs, Mrs Leho, Mr Ćeman, Mr Jovanović, this is the order, and then we will give the word or want to give the word to one of the representatives of the "Official Messenger". First questions, Mrs. Leho, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13768	Since the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission is not present, I will be the first deputy to say a few sentences concerning this report. The 18th session of the Commission on Finance and Budget, held on 08th06, discussed this report by the Public Enterprise "The Official Journal" and was positively assessed. In particular, the Commission's positive position on the structure of the company's balance sheet has been given because it has worked in BiH for years with unregulated status or only at the end of May of this year, the Council of Ministers has accepted this public enterprise as its own and since then it has resolved its legal status. The Commission's balance sheet analysis found that a large profit has been made in all these years and that a small company that has 330 employees has also mobilised funds this, over 2 million armed with banks and that has an aust of 1 million 870,000. When we talked on the commission for a little while on this subject, the idea was born, in fact, a proposal for an initiative, that since last year we set up a Fund for the Return of Refugees and Displaced, and that the budget for this year and this fund envisions only 2.5 million KM, and that for this public enterprise 133, which has been resolved by legal status, these funds allocated to cca 2 million are not necessary for further work because with this half of the funds it has to be congratulated on seeing and building and this kind of management and management and the Management Board that led this house, to which they must be congratulated. This is one rare example here, now we've served the prosecutor, says there are already 10,000 in circulation of names, small or large thiefes. I pray to Bog that they are not the age of those, well that they do not die until they come to their turn, these are the people who worked in the Official List and our proposal and our conclusion that we adopted on the Finance Commission and the budget is that it is the Council of Ministers to analyse the balances of imobilized funds in this public enterprise as well as in the balances of other public enterprises, the apropo initiatives of Mrs Palavrić today related to the CRA and their 4 million, we have proposed that these funds of the 2 million Council of Ministers be proposed whether, and this, as a government to make a decision to direct herself to the Fund for Return of Refugees and Displaced at BiH level. So, to join these 2 million, it's us as a commission and forward it to them in writing, and so today I ask that this be confirmed on this one and that, together with this initiative, be forwarded to the Council of Ministers. For what? Because if you remember at the end of December of last year when we discussed the economic situation in BiH, the idea of BiH starting to take part in the Central Bank's acquisitions was born. When we later came to our conclusion when we adopted the Central Bank's report last year, we went to the Central Bank of the House of Representatives and that conclusion was already realised. We had talks in the previous session as a commission with the governor and vice-government, already on the Central Bank Management Board was our idea that BiH as a state began to participate in the distribution of profits. Their first proposal was 70:30, which means that the central bank's battery remains 70% and we remain 30%. That's their estimate, based on last year's nine million marks, 134 so we would suggest that it goes directly into agricultural production, as was our original proposal. At this session of 18th and this proposal of 70:30, the Commission considered and adopted its position and actually asked for its decision to be forwarded to the Central Bank's Constitutional Committee again to be a 60-40 ratio and to be monthly advances. In the next session, we will get an answer, which means that the Central Bank will go immediately with the amendment, a proposal to amend the Central Bank Act. We at this House of Representatives and the People's House would have to bring it in this summer of ours, so we could start in September 1st, 4 months to withdraw everything that belongs to us for this year, which means it would be good if we entered into the process in the House of Representatives to immobilize the funds that we identify through the reports that are coming to us, we started with the Central Bank, so here we are, the Official Journal, and then we have...to conclude in a certain way, to make sure that the Council of Ministers go where we propose, because that's why we're looking for them for these purposes. Agriculture, return and we're in this... what the prosecutor told us today, the state doesn't have a camera to go to, and then we'll catch who gets who and how they get here. So, I'm asking the conclusion that, so I think that's how it comes out of the discussion, I've been listening to everything today. So, I ask that the conclusion be made to support what the commission has proposed to go to fund 2 million funds. From talking to the gentlemen of the Official List, they said they had nothing against it, and I congratulate them once again that this is how these people acted, that they brought here money so that we could fund those who are most unhappy. 135
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13769	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leho. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13770	I also agree with the reviews and the commendable here statements already on the financial results of this company because this information, let's say, is 247 thousand and 939 and some other change of marks, the total net profit, shows that this, well-owned and indeed, this one, has, therefore, companies that don't seem profitable, but when domestic business is done, then of course, the result is there. I actually answered first of all, because of the next, when it's already such a good financial result, when it's been handled well, when there's also these armed funds that have been immobilized, etc. Then I have one suggestion here, gentlemen from the Official Journal and the Management Board and management board of directors, namely, on the revenue side somewhere it's at the beginning of the report, in one point it says that the proceeds from the subscription to the internet are 17,000 430.39 should be KM, yes. This is too symbolic an income to say an important medium, especially for people around the world who may not be the problem of subscribe to the Internet edition of the Official Journals, but perhaps sometimes this one, simply does not have a custom but knows this, surfs etc. So it's too symbolic to have this item as part of a business policy. 136 I would simply write this, these revenues off, open the website of the Official Journals for all those who have this medium and thereby contribute in a certain way to informing our people both in the country and outside the country, and this clearly shows that this would in no way have a significant impact on the financial outcome that we might be having some special debate about. So that's my proposal and my grades, and I support this report, of course, whether it's knowledge or knowledge, whether we're pleading to it by accepting it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13771	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanović, Mr. Novaković. Before Mr. Novaković, Mr. Zorić was reported, Branka warned me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13772	Mr. Chairman, I don't have any objections to the report on the financial operations of the Official Messenger, but I have an objection to use in writing and in the extreme case of the use of language in the official messengers in which we, as MPs, regularly receive. Now I don't know if they get it from someone if they're just copying it or maybe this one, they're looking into it, so I'd like to hear it. Here is specifically the latest official messenger, since it is now up to date what the BiH Election Commission is doing, so I'm just going to read one part that says it means in Serbian, this language. An independent candidate, a political party candidate or candidate for the municipal council coalition may be a candidate for 137 municipal councilor or municipal chief. I think somehow it doesn't agree with the Croatian and the Cyrillic this, if they don't go together, so I'd really like to pray that in the future this one, so this came from the Electoral Commission. I don't know, but I'd pray that it doesn't happen in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13773	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13774	Now, I also got the agenda for the last time, and for today, the fifth item of today's agenda is the Report on the Financial Business of the Public Business, the Official Messenger of BiH, on the annual account for the period 2003. I didn't get the report, I got the report. And that's in favor of what Mrs. Leho here has to tell us about their profits, so why not hire 10 Croatian language teachers if they don't. They don't have to get anything. I'll vote against this report. I needed a report, not a report. And this has really gone too far. They have a monopoly, they could normally get 10 million, just let them raise the price. They have a monopoly and they won't write in Croatian and I should accept this report here right now. I won't, I won't, and I'll talk like this under every law I get in any language and he's not Croatian. 138
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13775	Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Ivo Miro Jović. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. After Mr Jović closed the debate. The word will be given to the gentleman from the official messenger. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13776	I only have one short question, which is what criteria did this public company use to select commercial banks with which to deposit funds? And who made the decision at which banks would she deposit?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13777	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13778	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm really confused here. I don't know how this act came to be the subject of talks on a body like this in BiH. Is there a single sentence in this report linking BiH and Parliament and this institution, except for the title of the BiH Official Journal. Not a single word, not a single sentence, 139 links between that I really don't know what that was, who put that on the agenda for what this sent us and what we have here today to discuss. In addition to my findings, I'll read the last sentence. At the end of this report, we will point out that the JP MIO Official Journal of BiH of Sarajevo has met the required obligations under all Federation, canton and municipality institutions. And we're discussing it. About what, for who? Secondly, here we see that all profits are paid, i.e. the tax part and by all grounds, health, pension, and I don't know any employees and she gets taxes on the Municipality of Center. This should be and should be a document of the Centre Municipality and perhaps Sarajevo County and then probably fit because there is that responsibility. This facility is my dear friends and gentlemen, organized in a way that has been issued by Canton Sarajevo. Me now, that's the beginning of my confusion. I think we have here a report from a Bosnian-Herzegovina state institution and that we can discuss it relevantly, discuss it etc. I've got three hundred objections here, you know the first thing I'd get attached to, and here's the structure of the employee, and there's no national, I don't know, or by this, but you know what I'd say extremely, but I'm not going to do it on purpose because I don't think it's a place, and I don't think we should be discussing this at all today. I have been thinking that BiH needs a BiH-level facility and that there are well-founded needs and that we are all responsible here for not having such a thing. That is why I propose that we do something as soon as possible to meet our needs in BiH, the formation of a public firm in which 140 of what we are using today would be a source of service. And I sure as hell wouldn't have to talk like this then. I also think, here, let's just get a little bit bit in this commentation, this is an untransparent work. Non-transparent work. Why? It was supposed to be a tender and the most favourable thing to do. We have not done so here for 7-8 years as the gentlemen of this country stated, from 95th year here until 2003, it was all covered here, and if I were to work on a proposal for a single law on the Official Journal of BiH, we would necessarily need such a message that would be the authority of Parliament or of the Bosnian-Herzegovic institution that would perform services, so perhaps we shouldn't even have a tender if the profit remained in the structure of BiH's budget. To know, I would be in favour of such a proposal, but here already today I am not prepared to speak from a familiar point of view but we have been found to form an institution at BiH level within BiH institutions and organisations at BiH level and to win and not be the subject of then tender but if it is this structured, I resent that it is not announced every year or I do not know for a certain time the tender, who will work. Here are the very positive results and I to the distinguished gentlemen of this, this which is the institution of the company congratulating on such good business and that is the only thing I can get from me as a Parliamentarian and citizen. Continue your work, you did well but I must tell you that this is not the subject of the BiH Parliament because this is not the company that the BiH Parliament has. In my opinion, it was supposed to be a contest, and that's how it would be, I think in that context, I think we understand each other enough. 141
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13779	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Bešlagić, before Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13780	I don't really know what we in this BiH Parliament want when we have those who have problems then we discuss immediately, when we have the good ones, again we discuss how they are naughty, how they are not legally set up. As far as I know, this company has become a company formed by the Council of Ministers. And this Prlament adopted it. On the trail of these remarks that were here, I have a proposal that the gentlemen of this company agree with these views that we have discussed and that it means with these criticisms or rather these suggestions, this report as it is with these proposals because we are asking that from these funds, the fact that the funds of the refugees and displaced persons, and we can't, if it isn't an enterprise, we can't ask you for this, and I know that this has been adopted by the Council of Ministers, and that they are in charge of agreeing, within the maximum possible time, all this has been discussed today, because it seems that we are not exactly after this adoption by the Council of Ministers as an institution, of interest for BiH, and it is my recommendation and therefore I ask you MPs to give them these suggestions, that we should be commended, and let them take this one of what they should do now. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13781	Mr. Novaković. 142
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13782	I just wanted to join Mr. Ivo Mire Jović's proposal. In fact, I really don't see any reason why we are discussing the 2003 report since this institution was only on 27 May 2004 by decision of the Council of Ministers on Temporary Status, so the Interim Status Decision won that status and I have no reason to discuss the report of the institutions this year for 2003. I fully support Mr Ivo Mire Jović's proposals as well as Mr Bešlagić. So, to return this report with all these suggestions here and simply have to resolve the status of this company and entrust business in the way that it is prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13783	Thank you very much. Ma'am, is it a replica or something? Mrs. Milićević, were you looking for Filip? Mrs. Leho and Mr. Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13784	I have a proposal that's on the line of what my colleague Novaković said. So we have been informed that this company has received the status of a public enterprise with a provisional decision of the Council of Ministers and is valid until the end of the year. We should perhaps go with the conclusion that we are going with this that a new law must be passed on 143 of the BiH Official List, which is a priority. Because this is all short of breath. It means we're going to go with it, and that way, through that law, we're going to regulate the other things.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13785	Thank you, Mrs. Lajo. Mr Andrić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13786	I thank the distinguished lady for the gentleman's move, but here is the debate, particularly Mr Zorić and the order of Jović and Bešlagić, and respecting the proposals for Mrs Leho's conclusions. And that is, the Commission that she explained well here's more concise but also aware of the fact that we remember, when the Central Bank report comes to us, then we remember that we have money there, so let's go for agriculture and let's see some kind of profit let's go back, so something else comes tomorrow new, so we'll remember that we have money there, and especially when we have the expenditure structure, let's say and pay taxes and contributions to everything else, and when we do a little peek at the movie in our head of how many state public companies and institutions are making incomes, because they all really pay taxes on the Municipality of the Centre. The state institution pays and one municipality in the state of 140 municipalities. Please be nice instead of being the income of a state budget, it's the income of a municipality. Is there a key to the answer why so much agile struggle for state institutions? In my opinion, it is, or the headquarters of the institutions. And so the Center Municipality is neither guilty nor debt capitalized by one annual budget of my municipality from which I come, only from this state-owned enterprise. 144 I therefore propose that the Council of Ministers, or a proposal to the Council of Ministers of Initiative, prepare a regulation that will free all state-owned companies, state-owned institutions, tax payments to the local community, whether it is a municipality, whether it is a canton which means income, or gain automation by going to the state budget, and then we will have the funds and we will not be able to discuss whether it has praised us somewhere 5,000 marks, whether we can close the budget or not. Why can't it? Have the Council of Ministers prepare a regulation and forward it to us in a parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13787	Thank you. If you want Mrs. leho, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13788	In 27.05, this became a public enterprise in the BiH state's jurisdiction. So in 27.05, this company got the status that it's a state-owned public enterprise. Is it temporary or permanent, for me now it is irrelevant, and that is why we receive this report as well as the other reports we have received. Nothing prevents us from concluding that the immobilized funds are being channelled into funds that we didn't have the funds in the regular budget for the purposes for which these funds were set up and that's why this was proposed. As far as the languages in which the Official Journal is printed, as far as I know, the Official Journal is sending out of our service to both Serbian and Croatian and Bosnian, and they print what they get. That means 145 isn't up to this institution. Of course we need to pass a law on the Official Journal to the Official Messenger, that's what we need to do as urgently as possible but we have one institution that is legally required because it has become a public, public enterprise to bring a report to this House of Representatives. They brought it. We analyzed it in the Commission, and we all agreed to take it to the knowledge that the conclusion goes to the House of Representatives and that part of the accumulation that was created we propose to the Council of Ministers to go to the Fund for Refugees and Displaced and I see no reason to change our conclusion. So the report we're receiving, the company is a temporary status, but the public firm became 27.05. We're receiving a report, of course, that we need law and I don't see any reason to do otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13789	Thank you, Mrs. Leho. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13790	I apologize for getting back into the debate. There are representatives of this public firm whose report we are discussing, and they'll probably give an answer to some of these dilemmas, but I can't help but notice one thing. We must first make senses, one is the Official Messenger, as a public publication that publishes adopted regulations and everything else that is prescribed to be published in that Official Messenger. And there's a law passed by the Parliamentary Assembly, I don't know if it was before it was declared by the High Representative or not. So the question of public publications as an official messenger exists, you all get it, we get this 146 we get as materials of informative nature and so it's not questionable. The issue, the BiH Official Journal, is a second bird, of course, closely related to this. I'm really wondering if we need to decompose everything to rebuild it. The problem was also a part because of the kind of relationship we have heard and some discussion that at one time the state institutions in which this is also involved were not unfortunately ready to accept the perfectly normal natural founding rights towards the public enterprise that we are talking about, and a number of other institutions that exist in this country and which, for various reasons, do not want to be accepted as state institutions. Time matures in this regard, and if Bog let me say so, and by his will, it will in some things be done before. Therefore, I see no reason to now, instead of taking advantage of the good situation, to preserve the situation in this company and give it this, to give it the content of the interrelationship and through the relationship of the state authorities, whether it is the Council of Ministers to the Parliamentary Assembly etc. According to them, there's a little bit of an advocate here and not that this one needs to be broken to make a new rule. Better then, you can discuss, of course, certain transformations to this or what needs to be done. So I just want to say, we should know a little bit more information from the other side, accept normally if it's a public enterprise then, of course, that company as other companies is making part of the revenues from services that they make and also from budget funds. This not only does it not have the need for budget funds but in fact through publishing and other activity this one does this also achieves a positive result. 147 So let me say, let's say, let's really if we do, here we may hear here and today through the presentation of the representatives of this company, in which direction we eventually see what needs to be built up to the organization, from this level that is obviously healthy, etc. and see how we can satisfy some other interests that apparently seem to be recognized here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13791	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Zorić, then replica Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13792	Mr. Ćeman, one of me has a friend from Broadbrieg and he's heard his cousin's getting married. He met her in town and she's got that fiancé of hers with her and he's asking her if that's yours. And that fiancé goes to buy cigarettes. She says it's her. Oh, my God, he's an ugly fiancé. She says what you want is better than you. He says this one's ugly again. So I don't have any material in Croatian again, no matter what you're talking about, here for five minutes. I, instead of the report, have a report and gentlemen should try to write that report, so that I can plead here and until then I am against it and it is not true that we are receiving the report. We adopt the report or we don't adopt it. We're receiving information.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13793	I had nothing to do with it, I didn't even mention it. 148
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13794	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković and Mr. Jović. Let's speed it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13795	I'm going to speed it up very quickly. I mean, there's a replica of this Mr. Ćeman thing and I really need to take it out. First of all, the dilemma is why this official messenger of certain companies or certain institutions did not accept. No, because it's not a public firm at BiH level. That's why they didn't accept it. That's why we're asking it to be so. But not to be upgraded or to register what is needed as Mr. Ćeman thinks. As he thought with BIHAM and others, rather than creating a public firm, the BiH official messenger who will be in that function that we are talking about. So, it was a suggestion that I understood Mrs. Milićević and that's our point of view. Today, we will not vote at all on this report because it is not a report by BiH-related companies, which is 2003. No, I mean, I don't think there's any need to listen to the guest exposure because it's a 2003 report. When it does, from May 27, 2004, we'll discuss it differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13796	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović. 149
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13797	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know if I've made myself clear, but again I want to express my satisfaction to these people who have done their job with great conscience and made such a wonderful profit. And this whole thing I'm saying has nothing to do with the people who delivered this report. I just want to say the following to these meanings is my guilty quote or replica, according to reflections and I want to suggest conclusions and they are in the spirit of my first appearance here today by this point. On the 27th of May, so 29 days ago, the Council of Ministers didn't know what was caused it to make a decision, if it could have worked for 5-6-7 years, it might have been a little bit more, but it made that decision that I didn't have the chance to look at. Do we have to and need reports gentlemen ask you, all suppliers according to the BiH Parliament report their reports here we had, all the companies that started this, came to us, I don't know etc. Services The Official Journal did according to the BiH Parliament a printing Official Messenger. If I'm right, I don't know, I have the right to express my views and here's the conclusion in my head that comes before you, without any marks. The BiH Parliament has not worked transparently so far, as it has not opened a tender for who will perform the service. I'm not going to tell you right now that that's what the D.A. is supposed to do right now, what was done, but now we're in the situation that we are in, that in this time of the new year, we're going to do something that's going to be useful and good for everyone. And whether the honorable gentlemen there will work or not, that's another question that has nothing to do with this proposal of mine. Within the BiH Parliament, a section, which would deal with 150 of the official messenger's printing activities, should be created. That official messenger wouldn't have to be the subject of a competition then and those employees would be Parliament and all the profits would have been directed through the budget here when we adopted it. Until then, as long as the Official Journal of the Public Enterprise is at any level, there is no exclusive print of the Official Messenger. The competition has to be announced, so whoever gets the most favored. That's why I think the Official Lis is not the BiH institution. I'll thank you, then you'll have to press charges. I'm saying that these people are not employees of BiH's BiH institution, please don't pollemize here very nicely, registered in a court registrar at the Cantonal Court in Sarajevo. I would ask Mr. Chairman to protect me from saying what I mean. Do I not have the right and the right to sin, so be patient and answer me? I give my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13799	Thank you, Mr. Jović. Here you are protected. You've had enough time on this subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13800	Let me get this over with, I won't vote for anything because I don't think this report is for this place.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13801	Thank you very much. Mr. Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13802	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't expect to report at all in the first place, I thought we'd be here for one minute, possibly two, but there's that law of Parkinskona. says the time lost at the debate on some point is proportional to the meaning of that point. The openings we confirmed today, I think. I want to say next. I think BiH had an official list before the war, and this is, I understand, that's the Official List. I don't even know why the Council of Ministers would confirm something right now. So it's a public company that's been formed, so we respect Dejton and everything that's happened beforeDejton and we respect it. I think everything that was before Dejton that we accepted, when we just signed and what was, we accepted everything. Hence, so is this Official Journal. And he's doing, and he's doing well, and he needs to be accepted like that, and I agree with all those who say he's doing well, that he should commend them, and I'm joining them. 152 And please, this one, and I don't see why we would now be giving someone to print these official papers to another, if they can, a public company owned by whether or not they are the founder of BiH. And in this context, I support Mr. Andrić's proposal that the Council of Ministers should pass a law that would arrange for a profit from an enterprise founded by BiH not to go to this municipality, because now under federal law, I think the problem, according to the Federal Law, is this company that makes profits, paying it to the municipality in which it is registered. Therefore, it is only disputed in my opinion, and it is necessary to pass the law in such a way that it is the profit of the BiH state, that is, the BiH budget and to continue to work. That's it. And I suggest we adopt this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13803	Thank you, Mr. Huskić. Jelina Đurković, before and then we will give the word, Mrs Palavrić, and then we will give the word to the representatives of the Official List. Please be patient. We've had enough time today and to rest, we need to finish today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13804	Now, first of all, let me make it a little easier on Mr. Zorić and make it easier on us, because every law we get will first be watching from a language point of view. So, since we only have one lecturer as far as I've been informed in our service, I suggest and actually initiate the initiative, it's high time to receive two more lecturers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13805	It's already started.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13806	That's one thing. And the other thing, I'm just curious about what the national structure is in that Official as it is called, the list and who's there with languages, let's say, if it gets already, so I'm curious about what the structure is national and whether there's both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak there that they can read in languages when they get our papers from here. That's it, that's the initiative to call a competition for two more lecturers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13807	Thank you, Mrs. Đurković. We now have Mrs Palavrić, Mr Munib Jusufović, reported. Here you go, 154.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13808	I just want to remind myself of Annex II of the BiH Constitution, the transitional provisions governing the continuity of legal regulations, the continuity of legal and administrative procedures and the continuity of state bodies. So it says to the member, until they are replaced by a new agreement or by law, authorities, institutions and other bodies of BiH, and the other bodies of BiH include the Public Enterprise News Official Journal of BiH Sarajevo, will function in accordance with the applicable laws. We, too, are now waking up from a winter dream, as if this company did not report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly all the years after the Dayton Agreement. Looks like they made a mistake not having all this money that was state-owned, took it and reregistered it to a private company, and they don't care. The people who submitted the report to the Parliamentary Assembly turned out to suck. So this is the body of BiH, and until we decide it's different, that's how it's going to be, and it's going to report to us. And I'm begging you, I mean, I've been able to read the official papers more often, it's been my job, and I know that's how it is. Well, before the war was registered and this is true for every institution that acted before the war and after the war will act, it's found in Dejtonom, until we decide otherwise. I just want to help with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13809	So, is it a replica? Mr. Jusufović, here is before Mr. Jusufovic, Mr. Zorić. 155
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13810	I have this, uh, constructive proposal. Namely, I can't work more than ten minutes yet. Seriously, I'm supposed to be going, but I was also talking to the Expansive College that if you're willing to finish the 39th session and the 40th session, we can do it in ten minutes. If we haven't, then we can talk here, obviously this report isn't mature enough for us to adopt it tonight. The quorum's around here somewhere, if there's a few of us out there, there won't be a quorum. I suggest we fix what we can finish, and this report, okay, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13811	Please let's rationalize the time. I think it's said here now what should have been said. We'll go to conclusions, a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13812	I want to correct the wrong allegation of the distinguished representative Seada Palavrić. This one, it's allegation so much that this public enterprise was reregistered in 97 years and it can't be a follower of anything from before. It lost its legitimacy, its reregistration in 97 years. I'm not a lawyer, but I think I'm right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13813	Thank you, sir. Jusufović and the debate is closed. One representative, make a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13814	I'm a little really relaxed here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13815	Mr. Jusufović, you've brought a little leprosy into
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13816	So we don't take things too seriously. Now, you see, it's a strange thing that so far when we had an institution on the agenda, who asked us for money, we're voting right now. The first time someone gets to you who doesn't ask for money, we don't even ask for a report, they file a report, now we attack them for submitting a report. I suggest that until we ask, they don't offer us any more reports. This obviously has some things to settle, but really here's a little bit like this in a joke to say and seriously because people haven't, we haven't even asked them for a report, they're taking it. And now they see me doing a good job, suddenly we remember everything and everything. And probably when this question opened up, there's a series of things to talk about. In my opinion, why did I answer? He has reported for reasons to support this initiative, which is Mr Filip, it is important not only for this public enterprise but for all other institutions, which will be formed or formed by state laws or which the Council of Ministers determines that 157 apply this principle and that these funds are entered into the budget in order to be allocated for certain purposes. That should be studied and studied. But if I were them, I wouldn't give them advice, I'd take a lesson right now. We're not interested in this. We're good. We'll find ways to organize ourselves differently. But this time, let's conclude. Mrs. Seada Palavrić, what she said. Well, the fact is, it's the rule of all the legal regulations that are and that it doesn't stand in Dayton, and that's what she said. Thus, it is obvious that some continuity has continued. However, these things need to be fixed. What? This one I'm messing with Vinko and Jovanović, what they say about him in Cyrillic and everything in Croatian and in this one, the Latin but not in Croatian, let's do here now here's a lecturer, which he says and do the job. Although here's a little bit more relaxed, I suggested, and it could have been rational, it could've been Cyrillic and Latin in Bosnian, everyone would've understood it the cheapest.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13817	Thank you very much. Who wants on behalf of the representative? So let's conclude, please give a brief comment and let's finish today's session as agreed. And let's all make a contribution to that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13818	The Honorable Chairman and MPs, uh, I thank you for still finding the time and ways to listen to our report in the size and form in which we have delivered it to you. I'm going to try to explain certain things now. First, what is the reason and reason why you are considering the report. This Parliamentary Assembly passed the Law on Access to Information Freedom of Access to Information in BiH in the number 28/00 and the Federation also passed its law. We have started delivering reports to the BiH Parliament and the Federation Assembly since 2002. We didn't have an answer until last year. Last year, the BiH Parliament and its people discussed our report on business in 2002 on 18 July 2003. So, going back to that information and according to the House's consideration and in light of the law, we subsequently submitted our report by considering that it would again be subject to consideration at the House of Peoples. It's not our place to determine who's considering it, we sent the request along with the report, and so last year one home, this other home, so we thought it was your definition. So that's why I thought I was responsible in that house that I was obliged to obey the law and, according to Article 20 of that law, to submit the report under point 1d, and I did so. Secondly, as far as our status is concerned, this company was formed on 20 June 1945 in a regulation published in the Official Journal of Federal BiH and is operating 159 so from 20 June 1945 and a few days ago, we did not mark the 59th anniversary of its existence, and from that time until now it is constantly operating in various forms as any law was regulated. The latest law is Law JP NEO Official Journal of BiH adopted by the Republic of BiH and published in Official Journal No 2/96. That way, by doing business, we came into a situation where we established how and how to move on. You know that the official, that the Law on the Official Messenger of BiH was passed, that it was published on 27 October 1997 and that after large talks and discussions in the OHR where seven meetings were held in the period of a month we discussed who would do so, in which way the terms and conditions were concluded, the first agreement between the JPNIO Official Journal and the Professional Service of the House of the People of BiH, that we would be the publishers of the Official Messenger, which is later both by law and order. So that's how we did business. However, given that all companies that exist as legal entities are registered with the competent authority, we are analoguely registered with the Cantonal Court where we are based. And our headquarters is in Sarajevo. A federal regulation on economic societies has ordered all businesses to agree their business with the provisions of the law. We were obliged to bring it together within a certain time. But in order to do that, we have to have a founder. I have been trying for three years and I have a bunch of letters and memos that I have sent to the competent services of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers to resolve this issue, so that we are not simply theoretically and legally deleted from the court register and thus the institution that has been operating for 59 years would be abolished, leading to very big problems. 160 You're talking about printing, about printing, it's not about that. We don't have our own printing place at all and we've been doing 59 years. This is about one complex of jobs that needs to be defined in printing one last job that belongs to us within our business because it is a simple job, it is necessary to determine all other jobs in preparation and everything that follows in the order and the rest. And let me just say, we've been trying all along to work with as few people as possible. We've got employees only 29 but now it's an optimal somewhere around 40 people. We have an subscription of 240 KM annually, for three votes, the BiH Official Messenger, the BiH Official Messenger and international contracts and the Federation's Official Journal. Apropo, in the Republic of Croatia, is a 1,050 kuna annual subscription for one ballot, in Republika Srpska for one messenger of 300 KM subscription, so we made sure that we did not exceed certain requirements. So, given all of this, we've done business on this principle, and in the end, we've turned to getting rid of our status, even temporarily. And that's what I'm saying, that fight's been going on for three years. In recent times, it has been a little stronger and we have informed the one we believe should follow us, which is the Ministry of Justice that we will suspend the publication of the BiH Official Messenger if we are not resolved status and we address it in writing to the Federation that has been waiting to take us over and that it resolves it, and that BiH is concerned about who will issue the vote. In that conversation, we agreed together to resolve the issue of lawmaking, and that is the decision we are talking about. We, meanwhile, have made an amendment to the Statute, delivered it to the Ministry of Justice again, asked to consider it and to agree. We asked for agreement on the appointment of the board of directors and the appointment of directors because all the mandates that we have expired that we want to do really in one way adequate, to bring this company into a situation where it can be further developed, considering 161 that the Public Procurement Act is soon being passed, that the law obliges all participants to publish their tenders in the Official Messenger of BiH. It explicitly writes and that is the European Union's request and that will be so. The law will require an increase in the number of people, because we have consulted Croatia, where this law has been in place for a year, where 14 new people have been employed, where income of 14 million kuna is realised and therefore we have asked for a status solution to be done, so that they can prepare themselves for this new job. For this new job, we need a new business space, we need trained people, we need technique. We can't do that when you pass a law tomorrow that will take eight days' notice. We need to advance certain issues, and now it's just in progress, and we think that the new board of directors and the new management should take over but not put him in a position to start over, we've already taken some steps, when certain questions are being asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13819	Just to sublime this one about the reports and the questions that were, I think it's said enough. Here if you have
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13820	Answers if you need certain questions, I can give the same. I've already given one piece of it through this exposure. The only thing I can say, which is when it comes to the language 162 we're working on, you have to bear in mind that you adopt the text of the regulations and that neither has the right to change them. So we don't even have a lecturer, we have a corridor that strictly makes sure that the original text that they got on the post gets published the way we got it, and even when we find a mistake, we can't intervene, but if it's a rough mistake then we're consulting as well as in any way, because it's the original text, and he can't experience a change, because then it would be a meddling in something that we don't have a right at all. When the question is this part that concerns security of Internet access to everyone, two reasons why we've limited it to a subscription. One is a technical reason, because our calf and we are not qualified to receive a large number of Internet access. There would be such a suppression that no one could publish it and others, you have to make sure that in that case the number of subscribers fell and that income would be doubted, which would have to negatively affect the overall business, and not only those 17 000 as far as it found that the revenue from the subscription for the internet. And one more thing, why did we and the banks turn ourselves in? I expected that question. Namely, you need to know when we started, when we started opening the account, there were not these banks either, there was no Zagreb Bana, there was no Raiffeisen Bank, there was no Crystal Bank taken over by the Alpe Adria, then there was a Depositary Bank where we opened the account, so it was a hipotekarni, so eventually it was taken over by the Vakufska Bank, and we now mean in those four banks and we took this bank Crystal in Brcko before the creation of the Brcko District, and this is the situation that was found and it is like that. 163 Next, when it comes to winning. Given that we didn't have the status resolved to the end, we shouldn't have spent our profits because we expected that this profit would eventually be paid to the competent authority, who was our founder. However, if you are going to do business on a principle that says, if the profit is achieved, it is paid to the founder. If the loss is achieved, the loss shall be covered by the founder. This is why, last year, the Republic of Slovenia adopted 2,000 regulations published on 20.134 pages. It costs us at two costs, 2.5 million marks. If we work in three languages, that's 7.5 million. If we work in four votes how generous we are, it's 25 million just for the cost of the press and the cost of shipping to the post office. I'm warning you nicely that someone will have to pay for it. So, in some cases, we have to be a little bit more rational and make sure that this is how we consider it. I think this is your patience over, that I tried and tried to answer as many questions as I could, but if you think you still need me, I'm available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13821	Thank you very much, Mr. Huremović. I think it was useful, I think the whole debate was well-intentioned by everyone. The word was still asked for by Mr. Nikola Špirić, briefly. 164
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13822	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will only finish this agenda. I'm sorry we didn't have any information or any of our colleagues from the SDS that the 2003 report was adopted by the House of Peoples. I feel like there's no such thing here, so this party has a majority in the House of Peoples there, so it could say for 2003, it's formal-legal, no, I don't think, but I'm just telling my colleagues that there's no need for replication, why and it's equal home. I'm talking about home equality. So, if it was adopted in one House in 2003, then it had already entered into one procedure that was on the line of what the colleagues were talking about, but in order for us to get past this today, I appreciate what the Commission said to Fatima Leho, since this is the year in which people who have no roof over their heads should be cared for and that it is good to catch up if 2 million marks are possible in the Rehabilitation Fund of Refugees and Displaced, that it is fortunate that such an opportunity has occurred, and it is much more fortunate than these formal legal matters and political outwittings, but I think we should therefore adopt this report, adopt this proposal from the Commission but also one conclusion that we will send to the Council of Ministers. So, although it may also be legal nons but I think we must work to benefit from, rather than damage, the Council of Ministers is in charge of resolving the formal legal status of the Official Messenger of BiH in accordance with the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement, taking care of national equality in 165 employment and equality of letters and languages. So whether it will reregister it, it will already go this status or not but be the conclusion of this Parliament. So, let's not, let's make one step towards solving the problem. So to adopt this proposal but to the Council of Ministers to simply resolve formal legal status, we did not have this as a repeat story for next year. Well, thank you very much if I helped, I'm glad.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13823	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. berize, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13824	This proposal, Mr Špirić, has practically been incorporated into the law. So the Council of Ministers was required under Zakono Council of Ministers Act, if you remember that member, to statusally resolve not only the Official Journal but other BiH-level institutions within 90 days. So we can only remind them to comply with the legal obligation, not with the temporary decisions, they are bound by the law by Nikola anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13825	Mr. More Novaković. I hope that on the trail of the proposal no more, the debate is over. 166
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13826	It's not a debate, it's not a replica, it's just a matter of work, everyone's burdened with something, so he has the right to take the burden out publicly. What I want to say is, in part, said Mr Belkić and, in part, be careful, with the decision made by the Council of Ministers on 27 May that a temporary status settlement was taken by the Council of Ministers, so by the end of the year, Mr Špirić took over. So I don't see the reasons, of course I don't mind the conclusion, but it's already taken over, that's what I'm saying, that commitment has already been taken over.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13827	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. I, please let me say a few words now, here I was patient, you all got the chance. So we got the report in accordance with Article 20. The law on freedom of access to information in BiH, that's the first thing. We got it from this House's competent committee with a proposal for conclusions. So there's a reason why he's here. To avoid that, please, Mr. Jusufović, please forgive me when I suggest my conclusions if you have a supplement, so I will try to make a constructive suggestion of conclusions. The second thing is clear and that is what he said on behalf of the Official List, Mr Huremović, that there are open status issues. We see the Council of Ministers made a temporary decision. So it's not an accident that some of the questions about status, functioning and everything else aren't open here. These were legitimate questions, and now 167 is just a question of how we're going to do them today, how we're going to determine ourselves on these issues. My opinion, therefore, is that the Commission for Finance and Budget, sublime these proposals and how to direct profits and to focus it on the budget and on competitions of the public, getting jobs and issues that are being dealt with by these employees and everything else. Those are the questions that stand. I agree that what has been quoted about Dejton, but any institution that bids to be the BiH institution, must respect the Constitution and all the laws of BiH and, in terms of fulfillment, the right to expression, the language does not amnesty them from that part. And let us clearly have a lot of questions for this Official Journal to answer these questions, whether it will be the Council's Official Journal, but I am in favour of today giving us a heads-up on this report. And these conclusions that the commission will shape and deliver them to the Council of Ministers. I think it's only constructively related to both the employees of both language and competition and profit-orientation, this one is quite legitimate, that it goes into the BiH institutions' budget... if it is already the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here I think, can we take it this way? So, I'm putting on a statement on the report with all these conclusions that I'm... on the plea. Please, I'm putting in a special report, and then these conclusions to everyone that I am. I'm asking the MPs to come forward, first about the report. So we don't have an entity majority, we have a general. 168 Can we agree? Here comes a new dimension of Bosnia and Herzegovina, reporting this House that the College has reached agreement and that your report has been accepted. I thank the members of the College. I ask the representatives to make their statement on this proposal for a conclusion, I said individually, according to the stenogram, they will be addressed to the Commission and the Commission to the Council of Ministers, concerning the overall debate that was held. Vote now. With 23 votes in favour of, 1 against, 1 abstention and enough entity majority, we have accepted the conclusions that I, as chairman, have proposed to this House and have entrusted the committee to the competent committee of the House for the realization of these conclusions. Thank you very much. We're moving to the final point of this session, that's Ad.6. Giving consent to ratification and under c) of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the conditions of travel for the citizens of the two countries and under d) The Free Trade Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Albania 169 suggests that we give the House agreement on both agreements at the same time. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13828	Just one question, so I don't have another... I'm interested in whether this is by the introduction now, is it okay if it's okay, it's me, I vote. But that's what we were told about those other free shops, but they came and pressured us. Is that it, is it okay? Good if we are, if he agrees, and I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-18-0.u13829	Okay, thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. I suggest that the House declare itself on both this agreement and the contract at the same time in the package and give consent as the House of Ratification. Please plead now. With 23 votes in favour of, 1 against, a abstentioned, enough entity majority, the Parliamentary House of BiH has given its consent to ratify under (a) an agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the conditions of travel of the citizens of the two states and under (b) the Free Trade Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Albania. I thank you and conclude the 39th session of the House of Representatives at exactly 6:00 p.m.
