ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13139	Dear guests, I am opening the 38th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the session are as usual to invite our regular guests and envoys from international and non-governmental organisations who follow the work of the House. I warmly welcome all present. According to the service report, we have 36 MPs attending the session. I'm realizing that we have a quorum that we can work and make quality decisions. I thank everyone again. You ladies and gentlemen have received a draft agenda for this session. Last night, we held a session of the Extended College, and here I am now chairing on behalf of those conclusions that we had held at the General College session, so I suggest that the agenda that you have received along with these 18 points be included in the appointment of members, point – The appointment of members of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we have received the written conclusion of the Extended College and, if it reaches the beginning of the session, we will give it to the session and I suggest that it be the 19th item of the agenda – the appointment of the members of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I ask that we prepare ourselves until then for a statement. I believe this is about the conclusion of the Extended College and that we do not need to carry out complements on this proposal, we do not need to have a debate, and now I am opening up the possibility for MPs on the whole of the proposal. If no one wants to, I really do thank you and find that the 38th session of the House of Representatives has the next agenda. Records from the 35th and 36th sessions, 2nd. Agents' Questions and Answers, 3. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Framework Law on the Registration of Business Entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement, also in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Administrative Tax Act of 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. Council of Ministers' request to consider Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina by 104. Rules of Procedure, 27. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Television System, Article 104. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Council of Ministers' request to consider Proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina by 104. Rules of Procedure, 9. Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute of Measurement/Metrology of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 10. Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 11. Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute for Standardisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) - Proposer Tihomir Gligorić, 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer Vinko Zorić, 14. Report by the Joint Committee on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 15. Report by the Joint Committee on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the procedure for considering the draft law in the House of Representatives when the Commission report is negative, 17. Appointment of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's concession committee, 18. The appointment of three members to the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text: (a) Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina and (b) Law establishing the Independent Operator of the Transfer System in Bosnia and Herzegovina under 19. Appointment of members of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to work on the adopted agenda. The first point is Ad.1. The records from the 35th and 36th sessions you received on time. I'm opening the debate. Until someone gets back, I think it's in the record at the 36th session where it's about the Human Rights Commission's report on the Arizona Market, and I think it's a straight-up Brcko, not straight-up, and I think it's about different places. It needs to be corrected in the record. Who wants to go on about the record? He doesn't want anyone. I am concluding a discussion on the records of the 35th and 36th session of the House of Representatives and I would like to ask the MPs to make a statement on the records together with the 35th and 36th sessions with this observation that I have made. 3 I ask the MPs to vote now. I find that we unanimously with 35 votes to adopt the minutes with 35 and 36 sessions of the House of Representatives. I thank all the MPs. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. They're Ad.2. Representatives Ivo Lozančić and Nijaz Duraković received answers to questions at the 28th session. Mr Tihomir Gligorić, Milođ Jovanović, Muhamed Moranjkić, Mehmed Suljkanović and Momčilo Novaković, asked questions at the 29th session. Mr. Selim Bešlagić asked a question at the 30th session. Both Mr. Momčilo Novaković and Vinko Zorić asked questions at the 33rd session and Mr. Milorad Živković asked the 35th session. I am opening a debate, which is the possibility of commenting on the answers received. Anybody want some? Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Here you go. So Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have received, or rather, a parliamentary question that has been raised in three sub-questions. The first two are more technical and accounting, and the third is essentially an evaluation and an assessment that should have policy observations. I also report to the College and Parliament that I have been practically responsible for the first two sub-questions. The third one that should have been at least 50% of my total question was never touched, not mentioned, and wherever anything was answered, which means I'm asking that at least that third part of the answer that was beautifully formulated as number 3 answers. But at the same time, I have to inform Parliament and the Kolegijum that, at least until now, I have been standing in this House, and I have not had the opportunity to register that it is to the other MP or representative in this House on an irresponsible or partially answered question, so I would like it to be registered and to draw attention to those who have been referred a question and not to the satisfaction of the MPs to renew it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13141	Thank you very much, Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Novaković has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13142	I will comment first and foremost on this question I asked at the 29th session, so what is the national structure of the employees at the Communications Regulatory Agency? I must say, I've learned a lot from this answer. I found out there's no need to know what the national structure is, because if there were to be, it would be written here. I learned earlier that there was no need to know what the salary of this agency was, because when we asked such four parliamentary questions, we didn't even get an answer to that question. But we have received an answer that the Agency is an independent and independent administrative organisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we knew that she was addicted and that she was independent. I don't know if this is an independent and self-contains that nothing can be asked of her. And as long as she is independent and as long as she is independent and whether the other administrative organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina are independent and independent. I ask that my question be repeated. So I repeat this question and ask that, with my question, what I just said be delivered. So part of the stenogram that I'm commenting on is the answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13143	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Miloš Jovanović, then Mr. Petar Kunić, then Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13144	I'm partially satisfied with the answer to the question. I didn't expect anything spectacular to happen and that some sanctions would be taken against the ambassadors of Bosnia and Herzegovina to Sweden and the ambassadors of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the UN Mission in New York, but what I am pleased and what is at least good from this issue, which the foreign ministry has done is the code of public resignation in the Consulal Diplomatic Network, and I would love it if the Assembly could get the meaning of the text. It means that I'm not asking the question again, but that we get it, too, means what the text itself looks like, or the code of public advances of our representatives out there. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13145	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13146	Your Honor, I wanted to make a statement to Mr. Novaković. Namely, the answer is good. Why is the answer good? Because it is explicitly stated what the status of that institution is. Status is an institution as an administrative organisation. The administrative organisation is part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's management system. Therefore, if the administrative organisation is not under the direct authority of a ministry, it is under the authority of the Council of Ministers. So it's the Council of Ministers who controls the work of an administrative organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13147	I thank Mr. Kunić. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13148	I also received an answer to the repeated question, so I asked about the same question twice, and the good answer is that it is not in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is in the jurisdiction of entities, it is about regulating border crossings and all that goes along with border crossings, and in the last paragraph it is said that, with the new 5 administration for indirect taxation, which is the state body of administration, etc. The Council of Ministers can directly influence the improvement of the work of all border services. I know because I live in the border area yes, I asked what this ministry would do, what the Council of Ministers would do here. He says he can do it, and he doesn't say what he's gonna do. I live in the border area and I know how to communicate with people on the other side of the border every day, and I know that Croatia has arranged almost everywhere or especially those crossings of international character in a way that has built a lighting in the border area in the length of 10 km, multipliers or sidewalks, that it has arranged road crossings, and when you enter from the direction of Imotsky in the direction of Gruds you enter into the dark. I admire the courage of, say, the chairman of the Council of Ministers when he says - if Croatia is 100 euro tourists, we will introduce 500 euros. But I'd like the bar to say if it's 10 km in Croatia, we'll be 5 km away. He doesn't have to go five times as long. He can do twice as much. We will, not until the new year, but when the Council of Ministers takes over exactly what they say in this last part of the answer, they just say that they will be able to influence. I don't think the question is correct and it's not nice, especially because I want Bosnia and Herzegovina to compare itself with neighbouring countries, and especially Croatia, which is a little bit, wanted me to admit it or not to go ahead of us, so that we can compare and in that I don't enter the zone of light in the dark zone. And not only me, but also the people who are coming, and through that transition most people go to Medjugorje, the most people enter that border crossing to Medjugorje, I think it also gives a picture of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and for that reason I've asked twice the same question, and I thank you, I think it's the Directorate for Roads that maintains the highways which a huge hole has patched up, and that's the last time I've mentioned it in the parliamentary question, that's some men of 15 squares of asphalt, and it's a good thing that it's patched up to get into Bosnia and Herzegovina at all. I wish you wouldn't answer my question and I wouldn't want anyone to take this as a cynicism of any nature. I would like the Council of Ministers to put all the border crossings, especially international character, into a priority if we think, and I think that's the first picture and the first impression when it enters one country that looks like the border crossing and the one around the border crossing, I repeat, especially at night, but by day. Maybe it's better to go to some border crossings at night because you can't see the trash. So for this reason it's good to go in at night, and on the other hand here and I think if, and we're bordering just don't know what the border crossings are with Serbia-Montenegro, and I think it's very hard for us to talk because they're always commenting for me, and I'm going to take all the lines and let me just one more minute to finish. So I don't know what the border crossings to Serbia-Montenegro look like because I've never been there, and
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13149	You can let Mr. Zorić go for one minute, because his comment is inspiring, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13150	Here I thank Kunić, who mentioned it, and I keep saying it because I am also a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission to visit Serbia-Montenegro, because it is a unique 6 chance for me to be there. I have a strong desire, then. I don't know what these crossings are on the other side of whether, but the crossings from Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina are on occasion well arranged and look nice. I think we should make a plan to make it clear that neither I nor any of us are asking questions like this again or similar, if anyone has understood maybe even inspiring as president it's not bad.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13151	Thank you very much. Who was next? Whether or not there are other comments on the answers received. Do you want any of the MPs? Mr. Duraković. Here you go, Mr. Duraković. No, these are more comments on the answers received.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13152	My question was about the project, the so-called project. The above horizon, i.e. the translation of water into Herzegovina. I have received a very comprehensive response which mainly confirms those doubts that were present both in the professional and in the general public. It turns out from this analysis by a group of ten experts, that no one can guarantee the flows of the river Bregava, Bune, Bunice and that this project actually guarantees some kind of biological minimum. And you don't say what that minimum is, etc. The main problem in this case is that it's about water translation from one left to the other. In this case, from the so-called the Neretvani plum in the Adriatic Basin, which is contrary to both international laws and domestic regulations and cannot be done. And the other problem is the same thing that the works on the lightning of the tunnel between the beaver and the fact field to the lake of life continue with all warnings, and I think they're already finished, so it's one extremely dangerous thing to say. Namely, by all analyses of professional people, experts, peneologists, hydrologists, engineers, etc. The entire area of Berkovic could be endangered, it is the Dabarsko polje via Ljubinje Stoc to Glavatićeva near Konjic and many of them will be hot, living hot, which are the only source of life in Herzegovina, and over a thousand of them will be extinguished, that these three rivers and possibly Krupa, etc. be questioned, therefore, that awareness will be at a biological minimum, which would mean one of the biggest ecological disasters in Europe and I am surprised by the indolence of our organs and institutions that indeed, even some international organisations have started from UNESCO and have already taken certain steps and expressed their concerns in person, and I am generally getting a response that is just so, hollowing, because no one guarantees anything, and in fact, here is the event in connection with the swimming of Pop's field now showing how dangerous this project is. What happens after that if it's realized, we can only imagine it. So I would like to repeat this question to these gentlemen and tell them to the Council of Ministers to tell us what they are specifically doing to stop this project, because it is contrary to all the regulations, illegal and means water translation of a whole area of at least 500 km2. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13153	I thank Mr. Duraković. No more comments on the answers received. We're moving on to new representation issues. Mr. Nikola Špirić, vice-president, first called, so Mr. Ćeman, pa Mr. Avdić, then Mr. Križanović, and Mrs. Palavrić. Please don't be angry. I'm really trying to be correct. You'll all get a chance, so Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13154	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, I have two questions and, of course, if I don't get answers lately, but I assume that the issues are such content and that they do not want to be given, that they are so perceived that they do not want to answer. But here's the first question, we are witnessing these days that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's authorities that need to worry about internal security are making statements saying that internal security is not at the highest level and that unfortunately Bosnia and Herzegovina, rather than speeding up the path to European and Euro-Atlantic integration, is unfortunately being the entity of an unstable country. In this sense, I want to ask the Ministry of Security, and it is about the statements by Deputy Minister Dragan Mektić, who said today you can read in the media that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, I quote -- in Bosnia and Herzegovina, organisations that are associated with alkaid work in a certain way. So the most important Ministry of Security comes out in public with such information, without feeling the need to inform the state parliament about these things or to take measures that do not exist. I want to say that they are not, so if the correct statements are I want an answer – what does the ministry really do to keep these connections from being cut and to create a stable environment? Unless it's said it's not there? And the second question is to the Presidency, I also find out from the media, which is sad and I think it's really a fact that it would have to wake up the guilty consciences of those who determine candidates and lead the human rights policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, - is it true that the Bosniak liaison officer at The Hag Amir Ahmić stole and took furniture from the SIP director's apartment worth 50,000 marks and that there is a dispute over the value of the furniture in court? Is it possible that the Presidency will send such candidates, regardless of whose interest they represent, whether separate from one nation or individual interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what will the Presidency do if it is precisely such a candidate to return to Bosnia and Herzegovina and that people respond? For a time, the High Representative sanctioned people who couldn't get on the list if he lived in someone else's apartment and was a refugee, etc. But it looks like the bigger the thief, the bigger his function is guaranteed. So I ask Presidency 8 - What are they going to do, or are they going to determine candidates like themselves by their own arches? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13155	I thank Mr. Špirić. The word has Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13156	I have three questions. They are the result of my contacts with the people I represent, the e-mail I received and, in some ways, the obligation to present them and instruct them to the authorities. 1. Recently, according to information published by our media, the Republic of Slovenia introduced mandatory commercial passenger insurance, even in a transit visa. This measure also affected BiH citizens, of course. My question to the Council of Ministers is: - Are the effects of these measures analysed and there are grounds and whether reciprocal measures are being considered? Do our competent authorities have data on possible measures of the same or similar species by other neighbouring countries and what is the intention of taking? I'm looking for a written answer. 2. A question has been raised on several occasions and has been appealed to all those in charge to take all they can in their power from the BiH Presidency, the foreign ministry, etc. In order to change the visa regime for travelling citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular to some European countries, and thus to facilitate travel. Especially for businessmen, but also for other categories of citizens. The condition hasn't improved. The issue this time is for our delegation in the OSCE, or the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe - Can anything in these bodies update this issue and get support for a more favourable visa regime for our citizens? So that's the question. Initiate this issue especially because not all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina on this issue have the same treatment. They are privileged to carry more passports. It's already known. I'm looking for a written answer. And last question three. Some Bosnia and Herzegovina citizens who take out passports in our diplomatic consular offices complain of unwarranted long procedures and thus about the difficulties they face, which is why they are waiting for more than 3 months for a passport. The Foreign Minister's question - When has he traveled around the world so much, did he stop by our diplomatic consular offices and check the efficiency of work in the interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? In this case, the issue is related to the case at the U.S. embassy consular department. At the same time, the suggestion. Do what you can to make sure that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not lose faith in our country and its diplomatic service so that we do not get into a situation where they no longer ask us for passports and similar things, disowning citizens seems to be their only choice in these situations. Of course, I'm looking for a written answer for this, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13157	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. The word is Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13158	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, respected presidency and honored guests, members of the Council of Ministers, on behalf of a group of MPs, we propose that following the end of Friday's session, the thematic session of the BiH House of Parliamentary Assembly Presidency is held, normally respecting the religious obligations as well as individual MPs on Fridays. But if it can be arranged on Friday, if not by 30. June of this current month. So the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and representatives of the OHR headed by High Representative Mr. Eždaun on agenda 1. Consider the current political situation in BiH from the aspect of OHR relations and the legislative and executive authorities in BiH. The explanation is quite clear. On the Council of Europe, you have a report from the Monitoring Committee on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is still a country of limited and political and economic sovereignty. You have the development of consciousness in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is going towards simply accepting the presence of the international community and the OHR as a classic protectorate of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this sense, advocating partner relations and equal dialogue with representatives of the international community, I think it is high time to hold a session of this kind of well-being, in particular of these open problems that are present in Bosnia and Herzegovina and before the Istanbul session and simply requires a well-founded that we are looking for 10 new countries in the EZ, Bosnia and Herzegovina will remain isolated in this area. We must seek the introduction of a visa-free regime for Bosnia and Herzegovina, or at least ease in the simple visa regime for citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So one of the vital questions, it's just one small question in the colgomer of simple issues and classic problems standing before Bosnia and Herzegovina. It means once again if it is possible next Friday, if not by June 30th to consider the current political situation in BiH from the aspect of OHR relations and the legislative and executive authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13159	This wasn't a question. This was a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13160	Suggestion, suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13161	You know the procedure for that kind of initiative. I'm personally on the stand a long time ago that we need to arrange a transfer of competence if we want to be a serious international entity. I am pleased that now other MPs recognize this need, which is certainly one of the crucial things for Bosnia and Herzegovina and its people. Next up is Mr. Jozo Križanović. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13162	Mr. Chairman, I am one of the agents who rarely asks parliamentary questions in this house. I talked about it at the 30th session, about 4 months ago, because the practice of answering parliamentary questions personally demoted me to get involved in this, but here today I'm actually going to repeat two questions that I never got an answer to. One was set 14 months ago and the other four months ago. You yourself mentioned today in the introduction to the answers to the parliamentary questions that the answers are being submitted to the questions asked at the 28, 27th session, etc. So my first question that I asked 14 months ago, which I didn't get an answer to, I want to repeat it, I'm going to formulate it very briefly. I'm going to formulirati it the way I did it back then. It is addressed to the Council of Ministers and reads - Will the Council of Ministers and, if they will, when will they initiate the procedure for which our anthem will receive the words? The second question I referred to this college four months ago is precisely the institution of parliamentary issues. I, on that occasion, presented a brief analysis of parliamentary issues and answers for the past year and now I would not bother you with these data, but I would ask the question which therefore concerns our college which reads - will, when and when we take up our college, this home therefore with the aim of ensuring, above all, compliance with the provisions of our Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives when it comes to, when it comes to the Institute of Representative Affairs? And secondly, with the aim of re-affirming parliamentary issues as a very important instrument for informing the public and controlling the executive authority by this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13163	I thank Mr. Križanović. The word is Mrs. Sead Palavrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13164	Thank you. My first question is addressed to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Veterinary Office and reads - What has BiH's Veterinary Office done in the last year to prevent imports of unhealthy food into Bosnia and Herzegovina? The second question I refer to the Directorate for European Integrations and reads - How long has it been since the conditions for the certification of agricultural products for their exports to the EU market? The third question relates to the State Service Act under which each institution must have an ombucmen to keep an eye on the rights of civil servants. I therefore ask the Council of Ministers - How many in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and at the level of entities and Brcko District have institutions and ombucmen within the meaning of the Law on State Service? The next question is the BiH State Service Agency - Why are procedures filled with vacant jobs, despite legal deadline cuts, still taking months? 11 And the last initiative, as we know, has adopted a conclusion requiring the MIP to commit the DKPs to any citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose passport has been issued, sends a request for registration for the upcoming elections. We've been informed by an internal, foreign, foreign minister that there's no means to do so. It's nine today. I ask the College to, together with the Council of Ministers, allow the use of budget reserves in these matters so that we do not miss the next seven days for registration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13165	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. The word is Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13166	... I'm rarely these opposition questions from my fellow SDA colleague, Mrs. Palavrić, Mr. Ćeman by tone. Namely, we received an answer to a question asked by a colleague Jovanović, if I am not mistaken and it is very clear that our ambassador to the UN, Mirza Kuršljugić, acted in line with what his powers were and that everything he spoke was spoken of with the consent of the ministry's competent people, regardless of how they agreed. However, I was waiting to get an answer to this question to ask the question -- what did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina do to protect the country's reputation through the appropriate protection of our representatives outside, primarily the ambassadors of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are being accused without any grounds, and even if they are co-workers with different terrorist organisations, as was the case with Bosnia and Herzegovina's ambassador to the UN. Mirza Kuršljugić, who has been accused for a long time by a former foreign ministry employee, primitively and falsely. Otherwise, who's interested, I can tell him everything about the gentleman? So, Mr. Kuršljugić has long been silent, and even the active consent of individual entity institutions accuses him of being the leader of the alkaida in America. So my question is -- why hasn't something like that answered properly by now? Why haven't people who do something like this been punished irresponsiblely and are literally embarrassing this country, and why isn't Minister Ivanić reacting to such shameful accusations and the responsible ones not being punished in an answerable manner, so if the exact accusation is and what should be done is known? But this is the brutal rolling of Bosnia and Herzegovina's mud outside our country for which the Presidency and Minister Ivanić are directly responsible and ask them for an answer to this topic. Offered by full support for what my colleague Avdić said, I, Mr. Chairman, would only refer to the initiative, or whether it could be an interpretation, whether it is in line with Article 130, to be held, since it is not defined whether, within the framework of the interpretation of the agenda, some amounts, but in the context of this proposal, this could be in the context of a meeting with the OHR on the Council of Europe's report that is being prepared and resulting in commitments both the OHR and our institutions that my colleague Avdić was talking about, but I am asking Mr. Chairman to hold a special session of the Parliamentary Assembly before the Istanbul summit with the Council of Ministers and the Presidency where a call would be made for the reception of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Partnership for Peace and analyzed the 12 process of our further commitments and activities as quickly as possible to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I would also ask that the College consider that this session be held before Istambul, because many of us consider and work in their capacities to do everything possible to get this country into a Partnership for Peace, no matter what, and to punish those who do not do their job so that the whole country will not be held hostage by irresponsible people, or even indicted war criminals. And I'd like to make our point as soon as possible, if necessary, in the form of impellation, as per article 130. ..I have written in that form, if, then the College would recommend that the College then refer to the Presidency, but I will use my business obligation, the business opportunity of a member of the 130th Interruption if there is no readiness, and I believe that before Istambul we prove ourselves serious people.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13167	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. The word has Mr. Tihomir Gligorić and Mr. Gligorić, before Mr. Živković, correcting an incorrect quote or replica, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13168	Well, it's not a replica, nor a correction to an incorrect quote, but I wanted to rely on what Mr. Lagumdžija was talking about with the DKP network. I have also been given the answer to this question, but the situation is right now that we in the Foreign Affairs Commission are processing the DKP network, that is, collecting materials, and our intention was to put such a report and the agenda point before this parliament, because the problems are not only there, but also the fact that some of the ambassadors are beating their wife in London or smuggling cigarettes to Norway, etc. etc. So with that question that you've raised, we wanted a little bit of a broader topic to open up and see that state in the DKP network that we're going with this Parliament with this point of the agenda. There's only so much thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13169	I thank Mr. Živković. The word is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13170	...almost recently when it was meant to answer the parliamentary question, I should say that I am not satisfied, and I asked why officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina are creating tensions and destabilising the country's constitutional order and, of course, question the country's credibility on the internal and external agenda? In this answer, practically nothing has been said. There are no questions of responsibility so that indeed one normal man cannot be satisfied with such a diplomatic dribble written by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am becoming the next parliamentary issue - I have the knowledge that certain claims have arrived on the basis of lost disputes before the relevant courts against Bosnia and Herzegovina and 13 July. It is even worth 3 million marks, which has led to the situation of perhaps blocking the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget. In this regard, you see the President of the Commission, follow well, on this I am asking the Council of Ministers the following questions and I am asking for written information 1. What kind of disputes, which entity has produced this situation for the BiH state to be sued? 2. What was the representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or was the defence before the court adequate? 3. What are the real claims on the burden of BiH's institutions' budget and 4. How many other similar disputes are there that may burden Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budgets? When I get an answer then I will expand all of this and this knowledge that I have, but in the shortest possible way possible, the BiH Federation entity is practically charged from the BiH institutions' budget, when we know that the same problems have other Republika Srpska entities, its accounts, its budget, are blocked by all obligations because someone has sued someone in Republika Srpska, and here we are raising disputes from one entity to the level of joint institutions and money that are intended for something else we have come into a situation to pay for someone's nonsense in the Federation of BiH. So please, just for the BiH presidency, we'll start with them, etc. Therefore, I ask you to get an answer in writing as soon as possible, to be honest with him, and to see how much we have really come in this position to provide through organised crime and to say – you will sue BiH, you know who comes to which judge, it is known that this is an emergency procedure done, who defends and how defenders represent interests, whose interests are whether BiH, etc., so you will see how easily the money is removed from the BiH budget. And then you say no to travel, no to this, no to that, no to pay, etc., and look how you've been able to perfidibly get one store or organized crime to take our funds off our accounts without being interested by the gentlemen. I'm asking you a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13171	I thank Mr. Gligorić. The word is Mr Jusufović Munib, Mr Novaković will prepare himself. We have four more parliamentary questions, Mr. Živković and Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13172	Mr. Chairman, I will continue exactly, but now in the official form of the hearing that the second session has taken the issue that I defiled as part of the agenda at the first session, the issue refers again to, or the initiative of the Ministry of Justice that, in accordance with the Law already adopted on the High Judicial Council, it is coordinating the choice of this council in accordance with the Law. That's what's said. This is a question on behalf of me, on behalf of the Club, on behalf of many colleagues in the consultation session. 14 Furthermore, to warn, or to take action to call a misunderstanding, i.e. a harsh violation by the OHR, already passed laws. It means to communicate with the OHR and to see why it happened. I'd like to assume that the High Representative did this without knowing, accidentally. I'm afraid certain officials haven't prejudged it, but besides some Justice Department tasked with carrying out these activities with the OHR and seeing what the problem is. Third. If this is not done by the Ministry of Justice, I propose and propose that we ask the question of the ministry's responsibility again in Parliament. That's what it's about. Please now chair, as the College, at the same time the officials of the joint services in the House of this etc. that in the future you may spend a little better organization and that MPs are no longer carrying their MPs there. I wish to convey to you positive experiences from the Republika Srpska Parliament where the person who monitors and serves parlametan's work absolutely during the session follows MPs, not to walk from table to table, may the gentlemen do so. Please organize yourself, and if there is a parliamentary question, the initiative refers to professional services, let them come and get from the MPs, and not to go out to the tables there and chase and search. This is an initiative. I'm asking you to do it in the future, and I'll leave the initiative here on the table, if you won't take it... So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13173	Thank you very much, Mr. Jusufović. In any case, this second section of the College will consider it. Mr. Novaković has the word now. Did you ask for a word, too, Mr. Lozančić? I've got pressure here. That's why. So we still have Mr. Novaković and Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13174	Thank you. My question is, can MPs all or at least members of permanent delegations get Schengen visas for a period of 6 months, at least six months, and what does it take to do that? - What has the Foreign Ministry done to resolve this issue? The issue is addressed to the foreign ministry, or the Council of Ministers. In fact, it is common practice that all MPs, and I particularly underline members of permanent delegations for each trip, seek visas for diplomatic, diplomatic passports, so that we come to a really contradictory situation that you have a diplomatic passport and a visa for five days, which is what you are, in fact, becoming suspicious on customs admissions and particularly reviewed by the officials of the countries in which you enter. 1 So I have asked the authorities several times to resolve this issue and in summary that there are different reasons why it cannot be solved I would ask indeed officially to say what it is necessary for the Ministry, what has been done first of all by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and what is it necessary for us to do to resolve this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13175	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Filip Andrić. Here you go. I'm asking for peace and order counsel. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13176	Gentlemen, my question would be addressed to the Director of the Department of Irregular Taxation, and regarding his order of 20 May 2004 under the struggle: 02195 which determines that certain types of goods from tariff headings 39, 42, etc., originating in Asia and Africa, can only be customsised in certain customs offices which are numbered here, while goods from other countries may be duty free of charge in all customs offices. - Well, logically, there is a question of what criteria were the director's conduct when writing this order when determining which customs offices could accept such customs goods, and which ones couldn't? This is the first question and - The second question, perhaps here is a logical sequence and more concrete why customs duties mentioned in this order cannot be carried out in Tomislav City, Orasja, Kiseljak and other customs branches? I would like to ask as soon as possible, and by the way, I would like to make a proposal to the Management Board of the Impaired Taxation Authority to put such an order out of force, because it really leads under number 1 to an unequal position of customs travel in Bosnia and Herzegovina, without any valid reason, while the streams of the parties lead to the discriminatory position of individual taxpayers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because for no good reason it creates additional costs and transport, and also time to leave customs, when there is already customs infrastructure as it is and can mean customs clearance of these types of goods, because it confirms that for example. The same goods from Germany can be customsed in Tomislav City, and the ones from Thailand can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13177	I thank Mr. Andrić. There are no more applications for new questions. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda of parliamentary questions and answers. We're going to the third, that's Ad.3. Council of Ministers' request to consider Proposal for a Framework Law on the Registration of Business Entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Article 104. You've received your Rules of Procedure in time for a proposal from this law and I'm opening a debate on the request of the Council of Ministers. This is about procedure. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I ask the representatives to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Framework Law on the Registration of Business Entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina as referred to in Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Vote now. I thank the MPs. 16 With 32 votes, none against, 1 abstention and the necessary entity majority, I find that we have accepted the Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a Framework Law on the Registration of Business Entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Moving to point 4. that's Ad.4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement, also in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers have also been sent to you on time. I'm opening a debate on the request. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I would ask the representatives to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on public procurement under Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. Vote now. Thank you. I find that the House of Representatives unanimously with 34 votes for, no one against, no one abstention accepted the Council of Ministers' request that the proposal for a law on public procurement be considered under Article 104. I thank the MPs. We're going to point 5, that's Ad.5. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Administrative Tax Act of 104. Rules of Procedure You also received in time this request from the Council of Ministers and the Proposal for a Law and I am opening a debate on the request. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement of request. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. Thank you very much. I agree with 32 votes for, no one against, no abstention of the House of Representatives has accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes under Article 104. Thank you very much. Moving to point six, that's ad.6. Council of Ministers' request to consider Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina by 104. Rules of Procedure You received both a request and a proposal in time. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13178	...investment. First, the text of the Law shows that it is the same thing that is now governed by the Law. I don't mind. I just need to clarify some dilemmas, and why it now appears here in the text that the name in English is for investment engineers, which is a fipa, and here it is mistranslated in our language. Now I'm just interested in getting a little bit of clarity on what's going on. Nothing else. Is that the same thing as what it is, it would be good if someone told us a few words in front of the promoter. I mean, we can make our decision and change English. It's not a problem, because it's our interpretation, but I just want to know what it's about. Because promotion and promotion are two different things. I'm also going to make an agency for promotion and funding, etc. Just to let us know what it's all about. This is what I usually support.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13179	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. We've only acted here at the request of the Council of Ministers. This is where we plead the procedure. We can discuss the procedure, the procedure can be addressed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13180	To pass it on to them because they're gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13181	But I thank you for your concentration and your vigilance. Thank you very much. Are there others reported for questioning? There isn't. Thank you very much. I propose that we declare the Council of Ministers' request that the proposal for a law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina be considered in accordance with Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Please vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 34 votes in favour, without opposition and abstention, we have accepted the Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Moving to the 7th point, that's Ad.7. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 104. Rules of Procedure You also received this request and law on time. I am opening a debate on the procedure for the request for this procedure. There are no reports of a final hearing. I ask the House to declare the request of the Council of Ministers that the proposal for a Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Television System should be considered under Article 104. Vote now. 18 I conclude that with 34 votes in favour, unanimity, without abstention, we accepted the Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 104. Thank you very much. We're going to the 8th point, that's Ad.8. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina, also by 104. Is there any case in the Rules of Procedure? There isn't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Please state the request of the Council of Ministers that the proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Vote now. Thank you very much. With 32 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions, the House of Representatives unanimously accepted the Council of Ministers' request that we consider the proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Thank you. I suggest we take another look at point 9 and then set a lunch break. Do you agree? Thank you very much. Moving to point nine, that's ad.9. Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute of Measurement/Metrology of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading I will Podsjetić you, gentlemen, that at the 33rd session, we accepted the application of the motion for procedure under Article 104. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee as well as the report which the College has designated as competent to consider this legislative proposal. The Constitutional and Legal Commission adopted 3 amendments. There were no amendments at the plenary stage. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There's no record of a hearing. Thank you. We move to a statement in this House on the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute of Measurement/Metrology in the first reading. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. Thank you. I find that only unanimously with 36 votes for, no one against, no one abstentions accepted the bill on the establishment of the Institute of Measurement/Metrology in the first reading and I think there are circumstances for this House law to be declared in the second reading. I ask the MPs to make a statement, will we also make a statement in the second reading? Vote now. Thank you very much. I agree that, unanimously with 35 votes for, without votes against and abstentions, we have adopted the conclusion that this House is also declared in a second reading on the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute of Measurement/Metrology of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 19 I ask the MPs to declare in the second reading the proposal of this law and to vote now. Thank you very much. I agree that with 34 votes in favour, unanimously without votes against and abstentions, we adopted the bill on the establishment of the Institute of Measurement/Metrology of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the second reading. I'm thanking you, and I'm holding my break until 13.30 minutes. Thank you very much. We're continuing the 38th session. [[PAUZA]] We've reached the 10th point, that's A.10. Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina in its first reading On the 33rd session, we adopted the procedure under Article 104. You have received an opinion and report from the Constitutional and Legal Committee. It passed the law in the proposed text. So it has not adopted the proposed amendments. In the plenary phase, an amendment was renewed by Mrs. Nadžida Mlačo. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There are no reports of discussion in the first reading. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the proposal for a law establishing the Institute for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. I ask the MPs to declare themselves by voting for it. I thank the MPs and I agree that with 29 votes for and 1 against, no one abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, has adopted the draft law establishing the Institute of Intellectual Property in the first reading. Shall we check the mood for another reading? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13182	I'm just about to track down the chairman, as soon as he asks the amendment's promoter to withdraw the amendment and then to declare ourselves in the second reading. So we have an amendment, and I'd like to pray that if there's really no mood for the amendment to withdraw to both one and the next law, so unless there's no mood, we're not going to declare ourselves today in the second reading and I'm going to keep the word this time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13183	I ask the MPs, since you know what the amendment is and that we respect the principles that we have established and said that the Council of Ministers will establish a proposal and mandate it to me with its conclusion, the proposal of the headquarters of state institutions and after it has begun to implement that conclusion and after more commissions have passed and we are going again with 20 subsequent amendments. We're really not principled. I talk to myself, then I talk to everyone else. Here you go. He asked for the word Mr. Mladina Potočnik, so Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13184	Mr. Chairman, as far as I know the parliamentary procedure, that is, the Rules of Procedure are first voted in favour of the amendment. Secondly, the law contains, please, yes, the law also contains a place where the Institute should be located. However, you, we must respect that these institutions have been trained by European Community standards for four years and that they are educated people who are willing to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13185	There's no open discussion, Mr. Potočnik. You can only speak in favor of whether we go to another reading or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13186	No, I don't. I won't speak in favor.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13187	Well, no, the debate is whether we're going to go to another reading, if we open another reading, then you're going to get a chance to discuss arguments, this one about content. Anybody else want to do this? Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13188	I suggest we go to another reading, because everything that's going to happen today is going to happen in a month and 15 days and ever. So I really suggest that I don't talk about the essence of the amendment, let's go to another reading and finish this process.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13189	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13190	I also support that we go to another reading and I suggest that my fellow MPs give up the amendment, because it will be a major contribution to the 18th agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13191	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Potočnik. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13192	I suggest he not withdraw the amendment because it's crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13193	Thank you very much. So Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13194	...we have strange things happening to us that the most crucial issues in this House are called headquarters. I think it turns out the content of the law is less important. The people who need to work here are the most important seats. It's a question of all the questions and we spend the most time on it. And don't disrespect the law, because the crucial items are the laws, and the seat is something that could have been stated, and it didn't have to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13195	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Potočnik's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13196	As far as cruelty is concerned, let's explain one thing. We've got a school bar that's here. If it's an entity game, then do it at the border between one entity and another, so make it half in Lukavica and half in Sarajevo, but let's not destroy what needs to be done as effectively as possible. Because without those institutes, we cannot, as you can neither export nor control imports. So the crucial thing is the point of such a law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13197	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13198	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it's an important question of what we're talking about, but the law as a whole is very important and important and I
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13199	Just a second reading, Mr. Gligorić. No, no, on behalf of the club, I suggest we go to another reading, another reading. She got a colleague's suggestion to withdraw the amendment, but it's her right and she doesn't have to withdraw it from what we're going to say in a democratic statement practically about that amendment, but there's really no reason not to go to another reading. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13202	Now I want to say something about the essence of the amendment. We are all aware of the need to carry out decentralisation of institutions, state institutions. It's done, too. However, the way it is conducted is somewhat inappropriate, since many cities, without reason, stay away from Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar. And somehow, Mostar is mostly identified with Hrvat, Banja Luka with Srbin and Sarajevo with Bošnjak. I really don't want it to be that way. I want to remind you and invite you to the responsibility of you and yourself together. When we decide on the headquarters primarily, we try to wrong the cash veracity. I ask that with the headquarters of these institutes, unless the amendments pass, what happened to the headquarters of the indirect taxation board. These days, a contract is still being signed on the construction of a building for the installation of the Direct Taxation Administration. I think it's all our responsibility to the SIP, too, and I agree, Mr. Kragulj, that that question has not been solved either. So anyone who wants to make cash believe should be willing to take responsibility for it. Our amendment stands, he's actually an amendment to the club. You plead with him according to your conscience and we'll work on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13203	Mr. Raguž. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13204	Here, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I seek indeed the position of the president not to be used for either the debate much, nor the replicas, but to focus on what is my primary responsibility. I still have a few things to say here. Why would a solution be called into question here in advance? By what criteria and on behalf of whom someone now says responsibility should already be assumed, if the government of this country, or the Council of Ministers, has proposed that the headquarters be in Mostar for the first time since there are state institutions. First time. And it means that it is a message to a functionally decentralised and unique Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if, in conclusion, we have entrusted the Council of Ministers to the conclusion that we are not breaking our seats here, but to make one strategic approach, as they think, and how they see the schedule of state institutions throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at the first step, we are going against it. I would rather go a step further then, Mrs Palavrić, and say that then who is questioning the strategic approach and the work of the institutions and the functioning of the otherwise parliamentary majority and the overall sector. There's no reason, but absolutely no reason to suspect here 23 right now that the headquarters of any state institution in Mostar or any other city we opted for. I experience Mostar both as Tuzla and as Banja Luka and as Sarajevo. It's nothing special. Nothing exclusive. But it's time to give a positive note to that city, not just to make a problem and that problem again, here in this House, instead of encouraging one such situation. And I just had to intervene and please understand this intervention in principle and I don't think it was necessary to break and vote on this issue. There was no reason. Mrs. Mlaćo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13206	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I would really like to explain the content of my amendment from the perspective I see it in. In previous solutions, the proposal for a law by the Council of Ministers in Article 3(2) states that it is the headquarters of the Institute of Intellectual Property in Mostar. I think this solution is not meaningful or functional or economical. Given that this is one institute, that the activities involved are both both the second and third institutions, means the Institute for Measurement/Metrology of Intellectual Property and Standardisation of Related and Complementary Activities. Also, as I said earlier, considering that this was a unique institute with unique technical equipment, professional personnel and that the amendment itself represents a contribution to a more rational and efficient functioning of an intellectual property system, modelled by modern countries in the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13207	Thank you very much. It could have been in Mostar at the same time all together, but there it is. I apologize for this intervention. Mr. Križanović, then Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13208	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am certainly one of those representatives who fully supports the dislocating and decentralisation of state institutions throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. I fully agree that the Council of Ministers should, within the framework of the task, develop a specific dislocation plan. But we don't know him, we don't know him, we don't know if it's loaded. In addition, in a very short time we will form very many new institutions of the state and I see no need, no valid justification that from a unique until now a unique institution that is now divided into three parts to do their dislocating, because we have been given very many reasons to make it irrational, expensive and not effective bar to start. That is why I support this amendment and, within the framework of this amendment, we also maintain the whole law. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13209	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13210	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, from an economic organisational point of view, breaking an existing institution at three locations is not meaningful, neither organisational nor economic. From the point of view that these people were trained to practically tear down the house, and we don't have any new houses or built. All parties have signed and declared themselves to be for reforms. They have declared themselves on the road to Europe, and in every law, as well as in this practical case, obstruction is taking place. I'm only gonna tell you one thing purely human. I guess to all of us, this Bosnia and Herzegovina mother, but out of the monkey love where everyone wants to take either a leg or a hand, we're gonna destroy her and we're gonna lose her. And let's see that this mother works in a normal way, and our primary task is that it is organisational and economical that makes sense. And that's why I'm absolutely up for this amendment, which is, which my colleague gave me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13211	Petar Kunić, then Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Ćeman. That's the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13212	Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, I think the word decentralisation is misusing. This is not about decentralisation, it's about dislocation of state institutions. So it's not decentralisation. decentralisation means transferring jobs from one center to another, lower, closer to the citizens. And in that sense, I think this misrepresentation is leading us wrong. Namely, what happens now in the existing institutions of central and joint institutions that there is no out-of-state department, or out-of-state area centres, so all of this is possible. It is necessary to create out-of-work departments, i.e. regional centres, to bring institutions closer, especially those institutions where citizens take some services, etc. To approach citizens, not for one thing, that citizens, as far as I can tell from traffic and connections that they come from Banja Luka, must necessarily come to Sarajevo. These are huge costs, etc. Why don't we make district centers, so where it's technologically possible, regional centres, bring the citizens closer so the citizens don't spend a lot of money and go from place to place from place to place. Of course, I join those who feel that the dislocation of central institutions should be carried out. That's what all the other countries practice. I don't know if you know Germany which is a federal state, look only at its judiciary, so you'll see that the constitutional court is in one place, the Supreme Court in another etc. etc. I'm not talking about the other institutions. Therefore, we must follow these trends that are in other countries, not concentrate institutions in one place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13213	I thank Mr. Kunić. Mr. Gligorić. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I support the discussion of Dr. Kunić who said, I mean the essence and I want to say that regarding this issue, the Council of Ministers has declared itself. We're on the committee, and I was on the committee that was in charge of this issue, and that's what we discussed. We also had that amendment phase in which we pleaded, and we did not accept it, and then again procedurally in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the sense of this Article 3, which defines and Mrs Mlaćo's seat has proposed an amendment that we need to make known today. I believe that in the meantime we had a certain, certain explanation in terms of why it should be accepted or rejected and then we had and discussed this financial aspect in which it was said to be financial and that it would cost Bosnia and Herzegovina more. If we make another comparison with the Indirect Taxation Agency in the case of Banja Luka with the right to speak of delays, etc., but at the same time this issue has been resolved as I believe that if Parliament, the House of Representatives accepts that the seat is in Mostar, then in that case it is quite clear that the cantonal authority will also have to create conditions, we will convey practically that kind of responsibility for creating optimal conditions on the canton, on the federal and on the canton, and thus create these optimal conditions to give the og to work uninterruptedly as an institute. At the same time, I think this question of how financially it will cost itself both in the commission and so on. I was also skeptical about the issue, however, after some of the analyses that I found very easy to do and to plant what we are in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to make it a simple reason for you not to meet someone in terms of dislocation of a place, and that is such a reason, and if we in Sarajevo are not going to convey anything else, we will simply be in a position to simply accept that argument once and for a precedent you will have a problem over and over again, in front of you it will appear as an inability to carry out the meaning of any institution's dislocation. It is before us, which is cancer and Mr. Križanović many institutions that need to be formed. We also have existing ones that need to see their rationality and functionality, which should organize the Council of Ministers and suggest, we will come safely to the situation that in this way we will have a simple narrow space only in Sarajevo, rather than that we will have to think about other cities, above all in regional centres that we had objectively and we had in the former Yugoslavia they are now practically the same centres and in current Bosnia and Herzegovina, we need to do a serious, serious review, one analysis and propose which are potential centres and for future not only to create a problem, here in particular at this institute. If, and I think it's true what Mr. Chairman said, here's the first time a serious proposal to have headquarters in Mostar and he's denying himself. An objective question arises in that sense in the development of institutions and in this area that simply need to be so that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be both comfortable and pleasant for all its citizens, and it looks primarily at how serious and responsible we are to accept this reality in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to build it. If so, it can become a turning point in one’s thinking. What Mr. Potočnik was saying, I completely understand, is that it went from this financial logic to that aspect, and also by the work of the organization in the sense that it will not be 26 functional if they break up and not in the way that the fellow Potočnik suggested, and it can also be if you enter into that logic to have... but I do not believe that after the dislocation has been carried out and that the institutes do not coordinate in the other sense... with the law that we will come into a position that someone wants an institution there and that it works against it and that it will not be functional. And I can't figure out that they want something like that, so they want it to end up wanting it to be in an organisational and functional sense something that we're going to point to with our finger that they're not capable of. I even think it's one competition within Bosnia and Herzegovina that when it goes to Mostar, it will show whether they know how to run some important business in the country or not. And why would they prove incompetent for a few months or a year when, by nature, things in sports, political and any other sense, someone wants to affirm space, affirm people, personnel and the institution that the law has entrusted. And if we think about it a little more flexible and a little bit wider, then we're going to come into another position to not just be the seat of one point of resistance where we're going to say the argument for Mostar, or against Mostar. But if we look at it in a broader context, in the sense that it is necessary, for these reasons that I have spoken only partially, there are many examples that can be cited, why would it be good in the future to dislocation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we as Parliament to find this monitoring system that will be realized and that we have the courage just as you would now say, I will support that the Institute is going to Mostar, me or the club, and that at the same time we have the courage to say Mr. Chairman, or people who represent that space and interests that you did not do that and that job, etc. So, we can't deny in advance that people won't work, that people don't know how to work, that it's going to be dysfunctional as if, and we haven't given them a half chance to at least see if it works at some point. And that's why I think we should show one width in that direction. If we just go back to that seat issue, it'll be one wound cancer to both this Parliament and society, and I don't think we need that. We have control mechanisms, we have responsibility mechanisms. We can put every question on the agenda and return it or problem it, or praise it if something happens in the meantime. Here I am in favour of this approach and, of course, if the amendment remains active, if he does not withdraw, I do not really dispute, it is no problem, we will plead. He'll get support, or he won't get support. The law that we have, and what the issue has solved, and the issue of the seat will remain fundamentally and perhaps it will end in a positive way and I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13215	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Nikola Špirić. Let Mr. Mirsad Ćeman prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13216	Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, and I would like to say that today it is good to adopt these very necessary legislative projects, and it seems to me that every country after the war, through which Bosnia and Herzegovina has gone through the inert of poor economic development or pressured by underdevelopment, wants to achieve maximum centralised. It is not illogical and it is not 27 specifically only Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we who decide on behalf of the citizens who chose us need to see what is most logical and what is possible to do. So I want to believe that we are all creating a new environment, that there has been a change in the political and economic system, that, that there must be mobility in people inside the country. And unfortunately, I have to say that only state institutions are returning hope to building multiethnicity in other parts of BiH, where cities are broken, torn up, etc. And that may be one of these state institutions. I wouldn't mind if all three of these institutes stayed together and were in Mostar. But, you see, we have to learn, if someone has a place of work in Sarajevo, so they can't make a pension, that time has passed so that someone doesn't offer him a place of work in Neum, Banja Luka, Gradišca that the labour market is working, there can't be told by someone I have, so look, I should say something to you by that principle, so I am a civil servant of Parliament living in Sarajevo and a family living in Banja Luka. I have not said for a moment that the state parliament should move for my sake, but I have simply shown this desired mobility, the attitude towards the state. What does it mean now if we have two engineers in Sarajevo who have an apartment and says I don't want to go to Mostar, as if in Mostar it's impossible to do that. So, in that sense, I want to say that one thing and another is possible, and I think the most rational thing is that what the Council of Ministers did is to support us, not to open up political debates, whether there's logic for this or for that. Or, if the Council of Ministers has offered three legislative projects, with unmeasured locations where MPs claim that for the sake of the poor locations of that institution, let us vote on the confidence of the Council of Ministers, to replace them. And don't show hypocrisy, I know it's funny to you, I don't think this is the reason and I don't think people haven't thought about it. Or, if someone says this can't work, give me a receipt just as much as it does for the one who proposes there has to be some logic, some mathematics just like we asked for for these customs tariffs. And indeed, he would be one of the state MPs who would not advocate me voting for a change in location if it really meant the inability to function as an institution. And now here not to bid politically. So, I advocate the mobility of the labour force in BiH that will achieve the Constitution and the law what is guaranteed. And I don't think the best thing will be done because it's in Sarajevo. And I think that this, what I'm fighting against, is that you remember when there was the headquarters of the Direct Taxation Directorate in Banja Luka, many of the politicians of the Serb people thought, to God, there was a bag of Banja Luka. You can put an institution on the moon, I guess it's a state institution and that the correspondence in money knows what it means. So we have to, so wherever we put the institution, there's some state responsibility if it's a state institution, but here it's still making sense these 12 years, which unfortunately were years of crime, corruption, robbery and theft. And people think if they move the institution's headquarters towards themselves, it'll be easier to steal. So, against that logic I am. But I am for the mobility of people, workers on the BiH market. It is the only way we can build an integrated and political and economic market. So, I will express my view of the amendment by my vote. I don't think MPs should be making amendments but I don't think we should be having some gruesome and difficult political debates about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13217	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. The word has Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Let Mrs. Milićević prepare and then Mrs. Sopta. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13218	My colleagues and colleagues, in my time as MPs, I have asked this very subject to say, in our attention, because knowing that an earlier law has regulated all three of these areas through so one nontitut and arranged the existence of an institute, I have seen that there are some deadlines and obligations to do so. And even the obligation to form separate institutes for these three areas. To be honest, I didn't think about it then, but I don't think now, although some argument I hear here today suggests that the only reason why three institutes should be formed right now is by dislocating the headquarters of these institutes and not by improving, possibly in the organisational view, the professional view and promotion of this, the situation in these areas and the interrelational and that these are good practices here in a number of countries, that for all three of these areas, different institutions are founded. Because of that, and I just got up to say that, the commission report you got, I don't think you should specifically comment on it, I'm speaking here in my personal name, it seems to me that just insisting on it has already been indicated, that dislocating goes for the pattern, Banja Luka, Mostar, Sarajevo, right here is a small reference to, one of Mr Špirić's thesis, which just confirms that this stereotype this, we're setting up, etc. Is this really an inauguration of the principle that Mostar is exclusively Croatian, Banja Luka is exclusively Serbian and Sarajevo is exclusively Bosniak. It's really not this approach where we should think about these things. Let's even, let's ignore this one, argument or counter argument whether it's going to be more organizationally better, etc. whether it will cost more or less, etc. And for that reason, it seems to me at least, and that's what the proposals have been about so far, let's get some analysis done once, and then really, but not outside of this pattern of three, the city, three centres, try to see maybe the institute would work well in Tešnja, for example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13219	Thank you very much, Mr. Ćeman, but this is a state institution, not a national one. No Niko here has used any national terms, so there is absolutely no nationalization in this matter. No Niko mentioned a single national term to you. This is a state institution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13220	I didn't mention it, of course, but I said I had an impression, because that's how it works here, that's at least my impression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13222	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues, like this, uh, now listening to the discussions of my predecessors, it turns out here as though it were but it still doesn't matter. I mean, it's also Mr. Ćeman, the last attitude, it's like it's supposed to be anyway but still the gentlemen aren't anything here anyway. First, here's a fellow esteemed Potočnik used, in my opinion misused the mother's term. I mean, now someone means, we have a mother and we have a stepmother and he's actually played 29 words and with us all. What's this about? Strange metaphors. It is about what a nice Council of Ministers explained both the need and urgency and the reasons and it is about the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute. So we have three institutes in establishment. We can't be dislocated. So, we can't dislocate if we start it now, we set up special institutes now, so private institutes, a bill on the establishment of institutes. So we have a new one, a separate one, which means we didn't dislocate it that it already existed somewhere like this, so we're moving it. I mean, it's very important that we come here from the case itself and the reasoning of the proposal and accept what the Council of Ministers has agreed. And, not to allow ourselves to get into a situation like the operator's headquarters, it seems to me to have a system of what was controversial, but to go to the next points, and to accept here the original proposal of the Council of Ministers or to vote on amendments if Mrs. Mlaćo won't pull them out, to vote on the amendments, so let's see what we're going to come up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13223	Thank you very much, Mrs. Milićević. Mrs. Sopta, let Mr. Avdić be prepared, so before Mrs. Sopta corrects the wrong quote, Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13224	First of all, I need to really mention, we had today the Law establishing an Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments, which has already worked several
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13225	We are not, the Law establishing, amending and supplementing the Law
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13226	About FIP
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13227	But it's not about the establishment. It's about the amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13228	A law that is established, or regulated, but we know what we mean. What I mean. This is about transforming the existing two institutes in line with European norms and standards, here's to correct me if I'm wrong, and in line with all that we need to go through in the next period on the European path. So it's about transforming existing institutes through establishing new ones, so we're not starting completes from zero. Therefore, the argument that there is already something that needs to be dislocated or that we are just setting up a new one doesn't stand either, because it's practically a transformation. But generally I can't help but think that every time there's a key issue when it comes to the institutions of the new or transformed existing, most of our raps and arguments, we draw arguments on the issue of seats. And I suggest that any debate or future proposal, regardless of which proposal, new institutions or transformed existing ones, is called otherwise, that, before any decision, we get a list of the seats of all state institutions in BiH, therefore, 30 seats of all institutions formed legally or otherwise. I must really say that I was very uncomfortable with the fact that my colleague Raguž mentioned here, that no state institution is in Mostar.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13229	Right, that's the fact that
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13230	I also don't give for the right of my colleague Raguž to love Mostar more than I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13231	Who said
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13232	But let's just ask ourselves a little bit, a little bit above ourselves, can we make a decision in advance if that's the case, that the first next institution, for example. He is in Mostar, and the next to be in Banja Luka, and then I don't know, no, not my colleague Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13233	Comrade Zorić, I'd like your attention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13234	Comrade Zorić, we may not have understood each other very well. I speak in principle, because if it's true that we don't have any institutions in Mostar, then the mistake is a constructive error in the schedule of all the state institutions so far. And so I suggest, give us a list of the seats of all institutions and let's show our will in advance, perhaps something to locate an institution in an area or dislocate through some kind of transformation. Of course, this is not in favor of the agenda item that is specifically discussed. It was just a correction to the wrong quote, but this one, we're really exhausting ourselves too much every time about locations, dislocations, etc. And to waste a little time on the content.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13235	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Mrs. Sopta, Mr. Avdić, then Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13236	The discussion of the predecessors gives the impression that we have two options. They are one for strict centralisation of institutions and others are for dislocation of institutions, because every explanation that something already exists in BiH, exists in Sarajevo, there is infrastructure for it, then it is a tendency for all institutions to stay in Sarajevo, because we know that they have been concentrated in Sarajevo in previous times. The cost of costing too. I no longer believe any argument, not a single story here anymore when it comes to costing because I was so disappointed by the argumentation for the cost of moving Derk to Tuzlo, or moving NOS to Mostar, that I would really not have clean, accurate mathematical data in my hand, I can no longer trust anyone. 31 I am glad that some colleagues and colleagues have now come to the point that we need to have an advance schedule of institutions. What we insisted on was at the first institution when we found out, when we talked about Derk, when we talked about the headquarters of the Indirect Taxation Agency, when it came to NOS, we kept pointing out Mostar was gone and not only pointed out but it was here./off the peacephone/... where it turned out that there was no one in Mostar. I don't accept that discussion when people say it's about national centres. Tuzla is not a national centre, as far as I know now, or there are two seats of a nation if that's how you interpret it. Therefore, but I would also support Mr Gligorić's discussion but not just in one part, in that part I would not. It's that Mostar needs to be provided. It will be secured in Mostar headquarters, it is safe and will not prove there, but it is an institution of state where we will prove that this institution can function well dislocated in Mostar. I think that this is how we should approach it because by insisting on some things and agreeing with Mrs. Hadžiahmetović to solve a lot of problems for us, or to deal with the core of the problem, or what the law regulates, if we had a seating schedule. At this point, we Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, if you remember, have already insisted at NOS headquarters, indeed where we pointed out, give some Council of Ministers to make, count all institutions and make it a headquarters so that we can hold further discussions, i.e. real discussions on laws. I think, if we're getting complicated right now with this, really point 18, where I'm not even now, where there's Mr. Minister here, even he admits that it's not true that moving NOS costs more than 115 thousand marks, or no one convinced us with those papers he put on our table, the question of how we're going to work in accordance with these two laws under point 18.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13237	Thank you. Agents, I'm not limiting the debate to focus on the amendment, and we have a lot of work to do today. Mr. Avdić, here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13238	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, I think, however, this issue in principle solves a lot of things in BiH, and let us perhaps not be able to discuss it a little bit and simply clarify some prejudice and prejudice over these issues. I, first of all, must really come up with one fact, it is the submission of amendments from the strongest parliamentary party, whose deputy president is at the same time the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the amendment to which the ministers from that party have given consent, people at the very least, is controversial. I understand, a simple SDA club, but I can't understand this behavioral system. Perhaps he could be rougher and sharper in terms of the qualifications of what is happening in the BiH Parliament. So, it is not appropriate that one phone conversation can resolve this, for example, to submit an amendment when the deputy president of the party simply creates the Council of Ministers to the greatest extent possible. It simply, to a dominant extent, influences decision-making. So that's one thing. 32 Secondly, we acknowledge, that is, we are fully aware of the facts, this is a complex, complex constitutional establishment of a state. She's not here in Europe. So we have to go to the so-called. the political development of BiH, the political development of the BiH state. Everything we mean by that term. It's not dislocation, it's decentralisation, it's police development. It is nice for Banja Luka to become a BiH financial district. Okay, VAT and everything else, it's good to do it, it strengthens relations, strengthens BiH, etc. And it's nothing controversial, which means we have to be aware of those facts. There's no dilemma. Now, please, here comes what's coming, but still yes, but, still means in the Council of Ministers are dominant political reasons. If we talk today about political reasons, no problem at all, I am in favour of the Council of Ministers' proposal. If we respect the dominant political reasons for making these decisions, the places mean the institute in BiH. And if we talk economically, organisationally, financially, etc. Then we couldn't just be unique. Why? We said let's go to European integration. These three institutes are crucial institutions for work, say the Directorate for European Integration, for the functioning of the Council of Ministers, for the functioning of BiH as a whole, which means, conditionalally, decommissioning, roughly said decommissioning of one institution's formation of other institutions at other locations will lead to a stalemate of at least 3 to 6 months. You have a chance that a large part of the workers will not have the opportunity to move to Mostar, Sarajevo, or to other cities, etc. So all of this has to be taken care of. It's human problems. Which means, uh, there's no dilemma, so when it comes to economic and other reasons, then objectively there's, there's a question of how to organize these institutions. If we think they're new institutes in general, where we don't need to respect the existing situation, there's no problem, it's quite clear, etc. So, for me, the fundamental goal is to bring this country to European integration to EC accession as soon as possible, and in this context, these three institutes are really dominantly important, etc. On the trail of Dr. Kunić, I think it could be reconciled that the Council of Ministers really delivers us under an emergency plan to distribute state institutions throughout BiH, not locate it only in three centres. I'm really sorry, I don't have any national or any other omens, Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Mostar, it's too little for BiH. I ask you, Prijedor, Bijeljina, Bihać and throughout BiH, Gruda etc. So we understand each other, if it's just a desire to locate in those three centers, and so, I don't think it would be good this, etc. So, to be resolved in the following way, I don't think we're making a decision today, to have the Council of Ministers deliver to us by the next session a plan for the distribution of state institutions and to act on this proposal by Dr Kunić in terms of a sophisticated plan, both for the institutions and for the simple seats, to reconcile these wishes simply for the politic development of BiH. Not any decentralisation, no dislocation, but it's just this, uh, development, and I think we're on our way to a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13239	We still have Mr. Zorić, and the debate is closed. Okay, Mr. Bešlagić, I didn't have any information if anyone else wanted to? to close the debate. Mr. Potočnik, you have spoken on this subject three times, the debate is concluded you can get a replica. Here's the real deal, if you think so, I won't refuse you any further, but here's something new. All right, here you go, Mr. Zorić 33.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13240	I'm the one who called in some anger, but here's when I cooled down, and I want to apologize to my colleague Azra for breaking her word. It wasn't intention but I was provoked by what she said because she explained it a little less later but next time we're going to Mostar, etc. We were last told about NOS. On the committee, I don't tell us as Parliament or to the Croats, but once I've already answered the word, then this, Mr. Ćeman, I would just say that I Mostar don't know what reason to see him as Croatian, or only Croatian, because Mostar Election Unit didn't just give Croatian representatives unlike Srajje and Banja Luka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13241	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Please bring the debate to an end. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13242	Well, I'll try to say something. I deeply disagree with Ceman that Mostar is Croatian, because in Mostar we have half the Federation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but there's half a Federation, I don't see it as such, but the fact is next. I must warn you of something else. I must warn you that from Tuzla to Sarajevo, if I'm lucky, I'll be there in two hours and 15 minutes. And I get to Banja Luka, and I need it when I drive three or five to four hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13243	From Tuzla?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13244	I, I turn it on, so if the police stop me. Please, the essence of our problem isn't in the schedule of dislocations of this, but in something that we absolutely don't pay attention to, the development of infrastructure, that I come in an hour where I want to. Another thing that is very important, we have today institutions that work without a certificate and we need a house that will give us certification and I agree, it must be dislocated. It should be headquarters, but I want to have such a house or an outhouse in Tuzla, Bijeljina, Zvornika or somewhere where we will achieve the efficiency of work and not talk about where whoever sits. I'm interested in the results, I'm not interested in the headquarters. I asked a question for indirect taxes, how long has it been since we passed this law? Not because there was no house, which was now bought, but I asked the question of organising that system where the director we appointed did nothing to bring this system back to life. I'm more interested in personnel, in quality, in work, and the seat will be determined as it pleases. Pam, I see the other thing here now, because in that first question, you said, gentlemen, keep your opinion, let it be voted and I think it's the right solution to this Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13245	Thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić. We have a replica of Mr. Ćeman and another Mr. Potočnik, the debate is closed. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13246	I'm really sorry, but in order for us to understand each other, I don't know how clearly I said it last time, I was just trying to give you my thinking and feeling. Namely, if the dislocation of the BiH state's headquarters is carried out on the principle of Banja Luka, Mostar, Sarajevo, it gives an impression please Tuzla is at one point Malta is not incidentically the one that happened as the seat of an institution, and so if on this principle it really smells like the application of that principle to me and I am against it, but I am not against having a general thought about it, and here at the end I may be the one, of course and in a joke, if it was an organisational, technical, economic, financial, so maybe it makes sense for someone in Tešnja this, as well as in Tuzla tomorrow or someone mentioned other cities, that my colleague Bešlagić understood, it was and now I hope that there is no such, a dilemma about motive. Thank Bog, let him plead as anyone wants.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13247	Thank you very much, Mr. Ćeman. More Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13248	Mr. Chairman, thank you for allowing me to speak again. Making the law isn't just about bringing it in and leaving a dead letter on the paper. The adoption of the law must first and foremost have a purpose to be applied or applied. Thus, when we make the law, we need to think about how we will do it. From that point of view, I was talking. We have something, that we have whether it makes sense to break up now or it makes sense to develop what Mr. Sead Avdić said politicically, etc. To be clear, we must not repeat the error of the former Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina which has not been uniformly developed. We now have a situation in BiH that practically the most money and most development and de in Sarajevo. Therefore, the Council of Ministers must have a clear vision and a plan to deploy towards organisational economic and development elements at the level of the whole of BiH. But the Council of Ministers doesn't have that plan. We've adopted a Development Plan, a long-term development that's three years from now. In this development, however, we do not have any of it. So, unsystematically, we unorganizedly approach and then come into situations like this where a practical struggle based on emotions, not on common sense and organisational and economic models. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13249	Thank you very much, Mr. Potočnik. Mr. Jović, he's blaming the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13250	The false allegation is that here it is said that there is really irritation, then I disagree and I want to give attention to everyone here in the hall to read what the Council of Ministers wrote. The implications there are, that according to regional international requirements, this should be done. Well, then, in the opening part, he says, the passing of this law by hasty procedure stems from a legal obligation, and so, I wouldn't want to read it because you had it in front of you, but not one of the debaters has said a word about it and as if this was suggested by some foreign Council of Ministers. 35 Yet, the reminders for the sake of the same false quote, on the Constitutional Neighbouring so well agreed that the same three texts in all three laws were when it came to solutions, the principles that should apply in one law to be valid in all three, and so we agreed to the texts. And I really don't know what this big debate about such a proposal has been agreed to. I don't know who's so irritated, thank Bog I'm not.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13251	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. The debate is closed. The government is in charge, the Council of Ministers to implement laws and proposals, as well as this one as everyone else. I'm asking the MPs now to move on to a statement on Mrs. Nadžida's amendment to Mlaćo. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. It's a total of 18 for, 17 against, no one abstention. We plead at the College, we go to the second round of voting. So now we vote who's against the Federation? I'm asking the MPs to plead. So seven votes against the Federation. We're moving on to a plea from the RS. I'm asking you to plead with the vote now. So, I find that with 10 votes against the RS entity, this amendment has not received the necessary entity majority. We're going to make a statement about the law as a whole. I ask the MPs to plead with the vote now. With 28 votes for, 2 against, 4 abstentions, sufficient entity majority 17 of the Federation 11 from RS, we adopted the proposal for a law establishing the Institute of Intellectual Property and in second reading. I thank the MPs. Moving to point Ad.11. Proposal for a law establishing the Institute for Standardisation of BiH in the first reading You received in time a bill, a request from the Council of Ministers and the opinion of the relevant Constitutional and Legal Commission, which adopted six amendments. In the plenary phase of Mrs. Nadžida Mlaćo, she renewed her amendment. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. On behalf of the commission, Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, please. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13252	Thank you very much. Very short on behalf of the commission. My colleague Jović just mentioned one important thing when it comes to this set of laws, I was just about to say it in front of this last law that we are considering today. We unanimity, uniformized the text of the law of one, the other and the third, from the aspect of this, the content and those of some of the fundamental issues which here do not concern the seats etc. I think it's one of these, positive to say the moment in the paper about this set of laws, and that's why you saw here in this law there are a little more amendments than these others that we've been considering, and the content of the text on some other issues and not the seat of it. It's only as a reminder to notice it, and that's why we've tried methodologically to make the laws when they're already working in the set and at the same time, then at least they're legally-technically done, although it's not a legal-technical issue but they're done to say a uniform way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13253	Thank you very much, Mr. Ćeman. I'm opening a debate now. Mr. Sead Avdić answered for a word. Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13254	I apologize to the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but the law that we passed and the Law on Measurement, the Institute of Measurement and Metrology, says this way, under the 4th Director and Deputy Institute appointed by the Council of Ministers of BiH according to.......The opinion of the Agency for State Service from the list of successful candidates who passed the public competition, and in the other two laws is said in accordance with the Law on Administration, the Official Messenger and that, which means it is not exactly in line. Basically, the most important item is the choice of the director of one of these institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13255	I thank Mr. Avdić. Anybody else want some? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We declare on the proposal for a law establishing the Institute for Standardisation of BiH in the first reading. I ask the MPs to plead with the vote, now. With 33 votes for, 1st, no one abstentioned, the enough entity majority of the House of Representatives passed a bill on the establishment of the BiH Standardisation Institute in the first reading. I suggest we make a statement about this law as well as about the previous two. I ask the House to state whether we will consider this law in another reading? Please vote now. I find that with 32 votes in favour of, one against, one abstention, we have decided to discuss this law in a second reading. I remind you of what I said earlier, now the debate on amendments is in the plenary phase of Mrs Nadžida Mlaćo has renewed her amendment. 37 I am opening a debate on amendments. Anybody want some? So there's no need to argue. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I ask the representatives to declare the amendment submitted by Mrs Nadžida Mlaćo to the Law establishing the Institute of Standardisation and Measurement. I ask the MPs to now declare themselves by voting, please vote now. So I'm saying that Mrs. Mlaćo's 17-vote amendment didn't get the required majority. We move to a statement on the draft law establishing the Institute for Standardisation of BiH and in the second reading. I ask the MPs to plead with the vote now. I agree that with 26 votes in favour of, 3 against, 4 abstentions, we have adopted the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of the Istitut for Standardisation of BiH and in the second reading. I thank the MPs. I think this House adopted three important laws today. We're going to the twelveth point, here, as you can see, it's easier for me to work because my other two members are in a good mood. I hope that mood holds for the rest of the session. Point twelve is Ad.12. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, in the first reading, is proposed by Mr Tihomir Gligorić mi adopted on the 35th session to discuss this under Article 104. You received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission as its report, as the committee responsible for this proposal. The Commission adopted three amendments. At the plenary stage, we have no amendments. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We are declaring ourselves on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH in the first reading. I ask the MPs to plead with the vote, now. With 28 votes in favour, unanimously without votes against, the abstentioned House of Representatives adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, the proponent of MP Tihomir Gligorić in his first reading. I suggest we go to the other one. I'm asking the House to make a statement about this, about the second reading. Vote now. With 31 votes for, unanimously, no one against, no one abstentions, we have agreed to enter into a plea on the amendment law and amendments to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions and in other readings. I ask the MPs to make a statement about this bill and in the second reading. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives unanimously, with 29 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions, accepted the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, the proposal of MP Tihomir Gligorić and in a second reading. Thank you very much. 38 We move to the thirteenth point, that's Ad.13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH, First Reading, Proposer Vinko Zorić At the 34th session we approved procedure by 104. We received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee as well as his opinion as competent. It supported the bill's proposal in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. I'm closing the debate. There are no reports. I ask the House to declare its proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use of the Protection of the Name of BiH, MP Vink Zorić's proposal in the first reading. Vote now. With 30 votes for, without votes against, abstentions, the House of Representatives adopted the Amendments and Supplements Act on the application and protection of the name of BiH, proposed by Mr Vink Zorić in his first reading. I suggest we make it clear if we're going to make a statement in the second reading. Vote now. With 30 votes for, without votes against and abstentions, we have decided to declare this law in a second reading. There were no amendments. I ask the House to plead on the proposal of this law and in the second reading. Vote now. We unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH, proposed by MP Vink Zorić and in the second reading. Once again, I thank the MPs and we move on to the fourteenth point, that's Ad.14. The report of the Joint Committee on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of the Joint Committee has not reached an agreement on the identical text of the law, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 100 of the House that the proposal for this law has been rejected. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13256	So, on behalf of the commission who tried to bring this bill into line, we failed to agree on the bill's proposal, but it should be noted that there are only one non-compliant question left of several issues. The question of the attorney-general's rotation and his deputies. And it's the way it is. I just wanted to initiate this occasion to think. Maybe even here we'll have a later proposal of this conclusion regarding the procedure, when the Commission's report is negative, etc. Perhaps it would make sense just to commit, the Rules of Procedure does not oblige and has not been a practice until now but I have felt the need to oblige the Commission in such cases, that 39 if nothing to inform the House of Commons state what is not harmonised, simply because the report of this kind of document is for itself. Of course, each of us can ask for it individually, but it would simply make sense to specify what is not in line, so, if so, and what is. Finally, it is known that if everything is not in line as if it were nothing, but it is not important to point out if nothing, which level of understanding was and is possible in here, is still working, has not brought the job to an end, perhaps even if a provision of this kind was introduced in the Rules of Procedure, in case of compliance, and even if it is not a positive result in the end that the report indicates what it is not harmonised. Chairman, I apologize for simply taking this little time. I don't think it's important to mention this because the real effort has been made and the result is zero, formally and in fact not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13257	I thank Mr. Ćeman. We're passing, so we got the report, the law didn't pass at the House because there was no consent of the Tex. We're going to the fifteenth point, that's Ad.15. The Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the conduct of a paved examination in BiH We have received a harmonised, identical text of the Bill's proposal. Eight amendments have been adopted. You got the report. Is there a need for a debate? I'm closing up. Mr Niko Grubišić, Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13258	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm just going to make a little bit of a technical intervention. So, the Law on taking a judicial examination in all three languages, not legally as it says in the invitation here. So, a judicial exam. Here is wrong in the invitation mentioned in Croatian, legally, so that there will be no later
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13259	Thank you very much for the intervention. I ask him to correct himself according to what Mr Grubišić said. I suggest that Dom make a statement about the report we received. I ask you, therefore, that if we adopt the Report, the Law on taking a judicial examination has been passed. Let's vote now. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Joint Commission Report on the achievement of an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in BiH. That is how the Law on the conduct of a judicial exam in BiH was adopted. Thank you very much. 40 We move to the sixteenth point, that's Ad.16. Proposal for a conclusion on the procedure for considering the bill in the House of Representatives when the Commission report is negative You have received a proposal and an opinion from the College on this and you have received today and a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission as a committee responsible for this issue with two amendments. I'll just remind you before I open the debate that we had a practical problem because of the gap in the House's Rules of Procedure, since it is not precisely regulated what happens to the bill if the relevant commission gives a negative opinion on the principles of the proposed law. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure allow the House to regulate specific issues which are not regulated by the Rules of Procedure. If a certain conclusion is adopted, it will be binding until a specific issue is settled by the Rules of Procedure. Here, I gave it here I think enough introductions. Does anyone want to discuss this? The position of the College that amendments to the Constitutional Commission have improved the text that we have proposed. Mr. Ćeman, here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13260	I wanted to in my name, you got the Constitutional Commission report, so I don't explain it. Since the reason for the adoption of this conclusion is, in fact, not accepting the principle, and neither is the need for the adoption of the Law on the establishment of the Agency for the Suspension of the legally acquired property proposed by counterpart Križanović, so I would just like to say two, three things about this issue. Indeed, in this regard, the Rules of Procedure may have given some reason for different interpretations, but still the application of the law in the period until the day of today, or the Rules of Procedure until the day of today, and the understanding of the business provisions, were such that it was such that little and should not have been specifically explained when principles were not accepted or when there is no reason, no justification, no need to adopt any law. We are in the debate which was led about this law, a fat argument is put in place or against the adoption of laws, principles, etc. simply in the report they found this one, that it shouldn't. For this reason, I think that if I am a good chairman of you, it is not this, the reason for adopting this conclusion that the Rules of Procedure had previously committed to such an approach, but in fact some kind of void or removal of any doubt as to what the report is doing and at what point the legislative procedure of this one ceases as proposed by some law. For this reason, it makes sense to understand the matter in future when principles are not accepted, which will be the obligation of the competent commission and even if it is considered not to be the law, and there may be a reason why, or an argument in favor of the fact that no law should be governed, or because it is already governed by other regulations or which I do not know, that we are not listing now. Therefore, this is only out of motive, at least so I understand this conclusion, to remove any dilemmas and that we would not actually sometimes politicise those issues that from the aspect of the procedure must be undeniable regardless of what is substance in any law or not. At least we don't politicize the procedure. I therefore welcome this conclusion, and here I propose that the conclusion be delivered to the Commission, working group for the Rules of Procedure, in order to install the elements of this 41 conclusions into the Rules of Procedure which we will hopefully finally get in this House to adopt with amendments and additions already being prepared for more than a year.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13261	I thank Mr. Ćeman. The debate was closed, this was like the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I suggest we make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Please represent... with the commission's report as an integral part of this proposal's conclusion. Please vote now. Unanimously, with 32 votes, no one against, no one abstention. The House of Representatives adopted a proposal for a conclusion on the procedure for considering the Proposal for a Law on the House of Representatives, when the report of the committee responsible is negative. Thank you very much to the MPs. We're going to the 17th point, that's Ad.17. I will remind you that we have received an addition of the candidate proposal from the Council of Ministers in relation to the earlier proposal. As you saw the Council of Ministers instead of Mr. Amir Novalija, proposed by Mr. Muhamed Karamehmedović. You also got Mr. Karamehmedović's résumé. So, just a little bit, you sign up, so we have the next proposal from the Commission for concessions; Mr. Milomir Amović, Đoko Slijepčević, Mr. Muhamed Karamehmedović candidates from RS, Hamed Mešanović, Nikola Antunović, Ivo Andrić candidates from the Federation of BiH, and Mr. Mustafa Ramić from the Brcko District of BiH. I'm opening a debate on the candidate's proposal. The first was Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you are, Mr. Belkić, Mr. Ćeman and Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13262	If you remember the Party MPs' club for BiH voted last time against the proposed candidates, citing several reasons why we are doing this. After that, some grades followed, etc. that the Party for BiH does not understand the importance of Corridor VC, does not understand the necessity and urgency of establishing a commission, etc., refuting naturally the facts of the BiH Party's behaviour when it comes to this matter. But I answered for the next reason. So we've got some kind of correction compared to what we had and we expect, I don't know who's in charge of the Council of Ministers for this area, or who should, on behalf of the Proposer, say what they missed last time to say, to explain a little bit about procedures, to explain a little of what the response was. Was there any possibility, wasn't there, etc. Apparently, the Council of Ministers doesn't seem to have any intention of doing this, and we were really expecting someone today on behalf of the promoter, I don't know Mr. Minister, 42 _________: [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, so this one, we will again be denied the fact that the motionor follows his proposal, to clarify it, to lobby for it, etc. It's just that you can hear what's going on. But here I was going to say this, to repeat the reasons why we were against last time, that we were absolutely in favour of the project. And if this is a solution, the BiH Party will not be against it, but the Council of Ministers will take responsibility for the quality, personal quality of this commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13264	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13265	When this was on the agenda last time, then we heard, of course, in the context of the democratic right to debate and express opinions, reviews of various, of the fact that the commission in the proposed composition would not be competent or at least as I understood someone's statements at the bar, the largest number of candidates proposed would not be competent for such a serious job, etc. So the subject could be discussed and discussed. Later echo discussion, I wouldn't point out here right now, but one substance let me, I have such an impression, such an impression, I can't and can't say this right now. I think that when it comes to the candidate who was proposed, and the only change is that instead of Amir Novalija proposed Muhamed Karamehmedović, so when it came to this candidate, among the other general remarks on the composition of the commission, he was resented and it was directly said here that he was not like me, this is my free interpretation because he stated in his biography that he had to escape from Banja Luka because of the aggression in BiH, etc. And that's what he thought was necessary. If, at this point in time and before those strong remarks that the commission is not competent, that this is, that is, we only have a proposal for a new composition of a commission in which only Amir Novalija does not have, then it seems the only reason why he doesn't have here is because he used the word aggression. If this is the principle by which some candidates are being decided today, then it would be correct to ask other candidates to declare whether they, they believe, are this, what happened in BiH, is civil war or aggression. Well, I'm making a few moves, but let's just let this one look like it's the end of the line. I guess that's not the only reason, but then it's really a question of whether the most incompetent amongst not competent is Amir Novalija. I think that's not the right principle, because personally it concerns me because I have quite enough arguments to doubt that the only reason for disqualifying this candidate is because I'm not talking at all about the quality of the replacement, exactly what he cited in his biography for, then I personally can't support this proposal, because I said then I should have information about how important the issue of BiH's history and other candidates think. This isn't a political commission, this is an expert, competent commission. I was last time thinking that the people who were proposed were at least competent enough to give them that trust and do the job. Certainly, BiH has better potential for such an important commission, but from the ranks of those who have applied for the competition, procedures that have been passed in accordance with the applicable regulations have proposed what has been proposed. 43 I had no reason not to believe that at that moment was the most I could suggest. That's why this change for me isn't convincing enough and let at least, I can't be for and whether or not this one, I'm gonna be abstention or not, I'm still thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13266	Thank you very much. Mr. Špirić, Mr. Novaković has come forward for his word. Are there any more reported? Dr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13267	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, I was one of those who spoke about candidates last time, saying that it would be good if we had each other's statements because so far we would have had a commission core that could have done a good job for the state, that what I think might have been possible, and today I'm going to say what I mean, it's not satisfactory to fill out the time, that BiH gets high-quality members of the concession commission. This is not a non-essential committee and should be approached in such a way. I will still be against voting in the package today. Not because I'm going to support a Serbian candidate against Bosniak and Croatian, because I think from one, from another and third people here, there are people who deserve attention to be members of this commission, but there are Bogami, and those for whom when a man reads, it's really funny. Well, since I read the biography last time, I'll read one of the biographies this time. It's actually about a candidate who was proposed instead of Novalija. I must say, we are really showing maximum concern for what is called the BiH institutions. I ask myself why so much hypocrisy when we talk about young people, educated people, about the need for them to stay in BiH, about the need to show them a chance. And here's what this biography says. So, man doesn't even speak when he was born, but here I could conclude he retired in 2002. And finally, the unfortunate man concludes that I am healthy and physically capable of doing these jobs. If this was the only condition in the competition, then it is difficult for BiH and its commission. He says I'm healthy and physically capable of doing these jobs I'm applying to. I know, I follow all the regulations in the area of investment, etc. Here, of the 7 proposed candidates you have 3 who are about 65 years old, and you have a man who may be 70 years old. So, I'm not saying anything ugly from the position of years, but I'm talking about BiH's chance to get what it needs through that commission. They have four candidates like this. So today, if there is an individual vote, I am ready to vote for three middle-aged people whose work résumé shows that they can be a pillar at the beginning of this commission's work and nothing will be ugly if the Council of Ministers continues to look for these four and we get a full commission. So, I am for a serious start, and I'm not about to make a deal in the package and build a commission that's about to unload. From these biographies you'll see who's over 60, 65, 70. Last time, my colleague Momo Novaković said that there are people who are closer to the Association of Pensioners, so I don't underestimate the Association of Pensioners, but I'm talking about the activities and the obligations that these people expect. They're men from the field. I'm 48 years old, so it's hard for me to sit in a car for three or four hours to drive to Sarajevo and stay here for five or six days. So, biologically, it's not possible. So here I am asking you, please, first of all, to vote individually. It's good to get to the candidates today, so candidates who can do it, but I won't if it's in the package, I'll vote against, if it's 44 individual votes, I appreciate that we're in a position to get at least three candidates who can make the backbone of this very important commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13268	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Živković has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13269	I know it's my turn, but I wanted to correct Mr. Ćeman's misquote, but here's what Mr. Špirić has already taken away some of my discussion. I wanted to say that it wasn't just the last time in the biography that he came out of Banja Luka because of the aggressor action but that the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats was thinking about really giving this country a chance and that one of the principles should be. And for this reason we cannot accept this new candidacy, Mr Karamehmedović, whom I unfortunately do not know, but according to all that is written here, a man deserves to be retired or retired and to give young people in this country a chance for one of the places that we see as having a great interest in BiH. Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13270	Thank you. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13271	Here, I'd be a replica first, but I gave up on Mr. Ćeman's replica, since I don't think she'd be productive. After all, the reasons Mr. Ćeman was talking about aren't necessarily here, so I don't know why the candidate wrote it. He didn't think with those reasons he'd get this, votes either here, or in the Council of Ministers. So, for that reason, I don't want to replicate, although I'd have a lot to replicate to Mr. Ćeman. What I'm saying is that the remarks I had last time, to a significant extent, are standing right now. So, it's not real, I don't think there should be any of these, young people from 20 to 30. So here, first of all, people need professions, people need experience. So it's a serious business, a very serious business, very responsible decision-making, and in that sense, the debate on age may not be sufficiently relevant when it comes to candidates. Perhaps more needs to be discussed about their experience and their expertise. But the fact is, there are a few more candidates present, let's say a milder age. Since we have had very significant objections, therefore, to one of the candidates and that he has been replaced, and yet given the importance this is, the importance of forming this Commission, the Serbian Democratic Party Club will support this proposal by the Council of Ministers for the Competition Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13272	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Munib Jusufović, and then Mrs. Palavrić. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13273	Mr. Chairman, I will not repeat anything that Mr. Belkić, president of the club, has said, in an explanation, and it seems to me that the majority of the debaters at the previous session showed in the largest number one reserve in relation to the proposal by the Council of Ministers and the list itself. Without a doubt, everyone agreed or maybe the ones I heard the other opinions and didn't hear, that this is about uncompetent people today just being complemented yet. I will also not repeat what Belkić said and the charges that went to the BiH Party, which is reportedly for the project, but it is annoying that the Council of Ministers' behaviour after so many remarks and criticisms, that one such nihilistic relationship has to Parliament and what has been expressed against this issue. If they had made the only change to this addressed Party of Democratic Action, and I fully sign what Mr. Ćeman said, you can't convince me otherwise, but that this reformist course was by the Council of Ministers and better said by the Party of Democratic Action, which has made the concession to SDS, that the man who, in the profession, is not a politician, he feels so and we are a large number here so, I feel so. But on the side, we're not gonna take it off, he's only been taken off because nothing else has changed. Mr. Špirić has shown here that there are 80% of the pension list. So, what kind of relationship was the Council of Ministers? On the side, this is what Mr. Belkić is talking about only expressed him for the project in total. And I'm going to vote, I'm going to vote, and if it's individual, I'd like to get an organ individually, but not a whole list like this to pass. I think that would be best, but in any case we won't stop but I'm showing my one to the end of this, worrying relationship against the Council of Ministers, and I have to say that in the future, I'm going to treat them, this no, for this here I'm going to vote but to practically return for this kind of relationship they have with Parliament. And you look, I'm not going to talk about candidates in particular, some I know very well. But let this remain, may the Party of Democracy have responsibility for all these candidates. And I support this candidate who was before, I don't see in that problem what he wrote was aggression, let me tell you gentlemen, that's where we differ but you took it off because this, not he's a politician, he's an expert, but he should have been also taken down and taken down by at least some other candidates. But it didn't, that's it, but I couldn't help but say this. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13274	Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Nikola Špirić, and Mrs. Palavrić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13275	Fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament may not be the correcting of the wrong assumption. What I want to ask. If there is a country anywhere in the world, so if there is anywhere, I have wondered where, that when parliament refuses the government some document, that the government does not spend time improving something rather than trying to discipline MPs. This time has been spent on party leaders, presidents who are members of the Council of Ministers, turning their ears to their MPs. Otherwise, we'd be at the back of what we talked about today getting a better list, getting better references and getting what we're all explaining in the media. And we better not have a commission than to have a bad commission. Whom we want to convince that it is important to create a commission and that we, Europe, are talking to the world we have a concession committee. What kind of commission do we have? I'm allowed to say that there are people and names here when you ask them what 46 concessions are that they won't answer you. Is this BiH's future? Take a look at the references. I beg you to read it, so I can only learn about people from their biography. And so I think that last time we had the will individually, we could have had the same skeleton to look for other people. But the way the Council of Ministers behaves that it's enough for every president of the party to call his own and say, we'll be blamed if we don't say something we all know, here are the people who are in trouble. So, there is no MP today who won't reach the commission but has the Council of Ministers given him sufficient arguments. I'm begging you, I have a feeling that the concession committee was promised to individuals half a year ago. People who are unhappy don't sleep, promised to people, and you can't change your promise. If there's anything in this country I want to know what it is. And I beg you, just put the truth in your eyes and let's take a look. This is an important commission. From this commission, it's important everywhere in the world, only to us it doesn't matter. It's important to us that the first fighters are a party and a finished story. It doesn't matter. He can write in his biography whatever he wants. The man writes two years ago I retired and I'm alive and I feel like I can. Is there at least a commission that's been looking at people? Today I've told you what it means to choose the people we come to know who and what they are, what they were dealing with. Today I said that BiH, a nation, represents a man who is a thief. So whether Parliament needs to know or not to know. ________: [[no microphone turned on]] I know, so I'll give you the paper, so charge me if it's not true. Well, please, I'm in the state business, I'm begging you, I'm in the state.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13277	Mr. Špirić,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13278	I beg you not to replicate, let him come out and speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13279	I warn Mr. Felić... [[He/she doesn't understand because he/she speaks at the same time with Spiric/]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13280	If anyone suspects what I'm saying can pull back, I'm obliged to publicize BiH, so how long will you defend the thieves? Well, it's not funny, it's sad. Well, it's sad, I'm your colleague and I say no, the thief is you say I want a thief.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13281	Okay, time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13282	Please, I'm obliged to do this. I swore to the Constitution not co-operation and qualified with or collaboration with thieves. Thank you. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13283	Please, Mr. Felić, answer the word. You'll Dobićet, no, I've intervened on respecting the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to ask for a word and intervene if you think you should. Here, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13284	Thank you very much and allow me to request as a member of this House that Mr Špirić respect us a little more and not treat us like cattle. The cattle are not dragged by ears, let alone by people in this House. And don't say I was telling you, and I was telling you, I guess we know something in life too, and we don't have to educate us here at least we don't have to educate each other at least in the way Mr. Špirić says. When it comes to the Council of Ministers' proposal for the Commission, I fully share Mr. Ćeman's opinion and I really think that the man who is not in the proposal today is simply for the reason he wrote in his biography that in BiH there was aggression. On the other hand, the fact is that what we see in the biographies of the candidates offered does not really promise much in terms of the age of people, but when Mr. Špirić says we want quality people. Some of them don't know what a concession is. I ask and what should we do to get these good-quality people? It should be done to attract young people to return to Banja Luka, Mr. Špirić. That's what you should do. I listened to young people last night, I listen very often to young people, and they rightly seek their place. But I ask the Council of Ministers' representative whether a young man who could return to Banja Luka or exist in Banja Luka possibly from the Bošnjak and Hrvat' order, so that he can be a candidate in such an expert commission. When you talk about references, let me say as your colleague that I don't think we're even competent to talk about everything. Perhaps we should examine ourselves a little. I'm saying again, maybe these people aren't the most competent, give me a chance to pick out the younger ones, but let's not think that we've all picked up something in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13285	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palavrić. Replica Mr. Nikola Špirić. Mr. Novaković, replica and Mr. Gligorić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13286	I want to say that I've never been angry if my colleagues with arguments show up, I was willing to accept that, and I don't think I should lecture but I often said I warned myself that if we all had information to warn you, I and you had to warn me. But I would beg whenever I make a mistake or give some false information to say publicly, Mr. Špirić, that's not true. In concessions, maybe I understand a little more of the others, young people, because I'm with young people every day. And I know what the young ones want and it's not true that we don't know what the young ones want. 48 I'm saying, to know that there are candidates who were promised this a year ago. Promise, people. So, I want to talk about it in public. So, I don't mind if you adopt today most of the time. But I've got half a year, and when people do, I'm gonna ask the results. And it can't, I didn't talk about the Council of Ministers today. I haven't heard any harder words about the Council of Ministers than representatives of the parliamentary majority and when I say, let's hope for hypocrisy, let's choose a better Council of Ministers, you say he destroys power, destabilises the state. Once we are on the line of what is the objective need of a living man in BiH. The moment the motto is capable, the working references, the scientific references, then we'll have a prosperous state, not a promise and a swearing in the president of the party, at this point I'm not still talking about what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13287	I thank Mr. Špirić. So we have a replica of Mr. Novaković, so Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13288	I don't know if the colleagues who discuss it know that it was a public convention? I guess some people are discussing it as if they don't know it and that everyone can come to the competition. So both young and old and some of the ones who answered were chosen by those who proposed. So there was a public competition, and people were reporting for a public competition. And it's the ones that are proposed. I have to, and I say again, that probably among those out there who are not suggested there are better ones. I don't know them. I don't have one here, so I haven't seen a biography of any of those who aren't here. So, I have what I have, I repeat that I have a lot of objections but I'm also not far from voting individually, but it's not up to us, it's up to me to propose. Whether we can even make a decision to vote individually or it's a matter of a proposal or a Council of Ministers, that's now a question that we can, of course, put on the agenda, so let's see. And I repeat once again, that, solely given the reasons Mr. Jusofović spoke of, means exclusively for those reasons, that we would allow the Commission to exist for concessions, we will only vote for those reasons, which in no case means that this one, or any other commission, is not subject to this change if we see that it does not work.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13289	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Gligorić. There are no more applications for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13290	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, it's a good thing I was saying after Novaković what I'm saying, I believe that Mr. Špirić, what he said was right in this House, and you can't argue with him and say that the country is criminalized and that someone is a thief. On one side you have the OHR, which the criminals in BiH say, you keep quiet, Mrs. Palavrić, you cannot tell Pedi Ešdaun that he is saying there are criminals. In world research, we're in first or second place, 49th on crime. You've never raised that voice in this House either. And now Mr. Novaković comes in and says, do you know about the institut of the competition, that people had the right to answer, and even the young ones said by phone, you answer, you will pass, and the Institute of Competition is a farce. According to RS, everything there you agreed on, in advance for three months, you knew who anyone would set up, all the competition institutes. In this country there is a farce, in this country there should really be respect for the MPs who speak and civil courage as Mr Špirić says. And confess, gentlemen, that there is a crime in your ranks, there are thieves you bring to power. And this concession and this concession commission are preparing for the introduction into the ongoing crime that will continue this country with a million-dollar value. That's what I'm saying now...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13291	Mr. Gligorić, you had a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13292	The replica is that this Commission should not be supported. Imagine you say Mrs. Seada Palavrić says, so you know what they're not the best, so go see the surgeon doctor and get your appendix out, which you say, so he doesn't know how to do it, etc. In this country there are competent people, there are quality people, cancel the competition, call but honest others, and don't answer the phone from the headquarters of these nationalist parties and bring people like this, because it's just an extension of agony with such people again because it's hard again, on the remote control and all the farces. And the competition institute is farce. Well, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13293	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. Since I've already seen who's going to be replicating you, I won't. Mrs. Palavrić, then Mrs. Miličević blames the quote, so Mr. Zorić did.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13294	I don't know whether to be happy that Mr. Gligorić listens so carefully to my every word or to be a little unhappy, but here. We never said there was no crime in BiH. He was there, he's got him if Bog knows we're gonna cut him down. There is no more crime in BiH than in Switzerland said Mr Ešdaun in this House who listened to him. And I say to Mr. Špirić, as he said today, he's being transferred from the Deputy Minister of Security that he has in BiH, I don't know how you said that I can't quote you, but the traces of Elkaida, etc. I ask you to repeat here as well what the ESFOR commander says when he says there is no Elkaida in BiH. Then, when you say such ugly words about an ambassador to Sweden or an ambassador to the United Nations, you repeated them today. So, I didn't hear you apologize. Also, you recently claimed as a fact that the sjekirica was involved in unfortunate events in Madrid, terrorism. You haven't apologized until today, and I think things are going quite differently. So, just as you've been saying all this behind the pay phone right now, I'm allowing it to be all under a questionnaire like what you said before.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13295	Wrong quote, Mr. Špirić, so Mrs. Milićević. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13296	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I'm concerned, we can vote right now, it's no problem, but I want to make a public statement. So I didn't speak for a moment today, nor did I mention an ambassador to Sweden or the UN, and my theme was not ambassadors today. It is true that I said and asked whether it is true that the liaison officer with The Hag is on behalf of the Bosniaks, the man who stole from the furniture apartment worth 50,000 KM and whom rather than the director of the SIP. If the head of the SIP is stolen from the furniture of 50,000 marks, if the Minister of Security steals a 150 car, if the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this country also steals a car of over 100,000 marks, the kind of country we live in. So, that's what I did ask. I wasn't talking, I was talking about the minister representing the deputy minister who predominates the BiH government and for me are the ones he needs to say, are true or not true. So I'm not saying that's exactly what he said, but if it's true what he's going to do. I didn't comment on Commander SFOR, so I had no reason to comment. I look forward to the fact that security is good and why I should comment on it. That's what I can look forward to. And I can't be happy if someone in the official government says there are clues and connections. So, that doesn't make me happy, Mrs. Sead, if she's looking forward to you. The second thing, I was talking about the sjekirica, and that case isn't over yet, like many cases haven't been completed. I wish I wasn't right, and I'm going to go public and say I didn't have enough information. Don't even think that Nikola Špirić won't say publicly if he had the wrong information that he didn't, I had the wrong information, as I will never give up on the basis of accurate information. Before, so look, 20 days or 25 days ago, I called crime in BiH in the highest state government. What happened? It turned out to be true. Will hoći support the Audit Office today that the presidency is not threatening to disband that office? Will you or won't you? I will. So that's what Nikola Špirić is talking about. Please, who I have no reason to defend any leader, starts from my political option to any one. Or I'll do it when I do it. But you, if you must, go ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13297	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mrs. Milićević, gave up. Mr. Zorić. The order of replicas is respected, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13298	I've only had one correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13299	Please let us finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13300	Mr. Gligorić said alluding to the ruling parties, so you must understand that criminals are among you, etc. A criminal has a name and name and crime or a criminal doesn't belong exclusively to any political party. I think that in BiH, people who have sinned have every political option, membership, sympathy, that they are voters of some political option, etc. And if that wasn't exclusive right now, here are three, four ruling parties or in the last Alliance when there were 17 ruling parties. I would never say all 17 and you are these 51 criminal options if you are in power, and every government makes mistakes and this is what Špirić is talking about let the review determine and let it prove what is, which is not. And it's incorrect that I'm here and I don't agree with that, and it's not true that they're calling themselves all political parties for this one, because people and who are being accused and who are being charged with criminal charges, these guys prove they're not, and some people are being proven to be. So, let's leave this to the judiciary for which we have here, we welcome that it is news, especially independent of BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13301	Thank you very much, Zorić. Mr. Gligorić, and thus the demands for discussion are exhausted, Mr. Suljkanović(?You'll get the word, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13302	Ladies and gentlemen, after Mrs. Seada Palavrić said that and Mr. Zorić, I will say it in one sentence. Since she called on Mr. Ešdaun to say that there is crime in Switzerland or Switzerland, but I want to say whatever you interpret, the national parties, the individuals in them, around them, that this country is not Švajcarska, but that unfortunately it is a smuggler. Now, look who brought her in as a smuggler. Smuggling like a smuggler.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13303	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Adem Huskić, have you asked for a word before? Then Mr. Belkić. Please upstairs, this concentrated group of MPs for a little more attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13304	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I don't have much to say I don't know about this point. What I thought was said by Mr Belkić, Jusufović and his colleague, Ćeman. So, the last time I didn't vote for the commission, I thought that the composition of the commission wasn't such a quality, unfortunately a change was made for me, from my point of view is this, counterproductive, and now I would be somehow accused of being against some that I am against the commission or against progress, they are, I'm in a position to vote for, and then I'd turn out to vote for, because this man, who I'm not supposed to be, should have been changed. Therefore, I propose as a conclusion within this item of the agenda no matter how the vote is concluded, that we ask the Council of Ministers to provide us with a list of all candidates who have applied for this contest. I think that would be to see who's been rejected and what their references are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13305	I thank Mr. Adem Huskić. The word was requested by Mr. Beriz Belkić, please. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13306	I am asking on behalf of the Party for BiH MPs' Club for a 15-minute break, to try to consult with the Council of Ministers on the possibility of individual voting. Here, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13307	Please, the debate is closed. We leave at 4:00 sharp. The debate is closed. [[PAUZA]] We completed the debate in the 17th agenda, the appointment of members of the BiH concession committee. Mr. Beriz Belkić, on behalf of the BiH Party, asked for a break, please welcome Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13308	The Party for BiH MPs' club proposes to the House next. Of course, if it's accepted. The first option, not to plead today, to postpone the plea for the next session that is scheduled, I think 19. That's one suggestion, _______: 18th [[no microphone turned on]] And in the meantime, on the 18th, and in the meantime, the Council of Ministers provided the information we were looking for. So, in the total number of people who have applied procedures, narrow choices, wider choices, productivity, etc. About which we absolutely don't know anything about. I tried to find out during the break how many candidates it was. There were 42, unofficially I found out, 16 came into a narrow selection, I don't know if there were enough candidates from the Bosniak people's RS, whether it was enough in the district, whether these proposals were the result of the given circumstances, etc. So, these are arguments for the proposal to leave a statement for the next session, because obviously we can't provide aside from all the requests, the appeal, for the proposer to come out, so two words say what he's proposing. That's one option. If Dom doesn't support it, the second option is that we vote individually on each candidate. I'm asking Dom to make a statement on our proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13310	All right, the proposal presented by Mr Belkić on behalf of the Party of the Party for BiH party is therefore to postpone a statement today for the next session. I'm asking the MPs to make a statement on this request. Vote now. So the proposal didn't get the necessary majority. We move to a statement on the second proposal tabled by Mr Belkić, which is that we vote individually on each candidate. 53 I ask the MPs to make a statement on this proposal. Vote now. This proposal has not received the required majority either. So we are pleading for the Council of Ministers' proposal as a whole for members of the BiH concession committee. I ask the MPs to make a statement about the Council of Ministers' proposal for the BiH Commission for concessions. Vote now. So, with 20 votes to, 8 against, 5 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, the Council of Ministers' proposal on the composition of the BiH concessions commission was accepted. The House of Representatives also confirmed the proposal that members of the Commission for concessions be Mr. Molomir Amović, Đoko Slijepčević and Muhamed Karamehmedović, candidates from RS and Mr. Hamed Mešanović, Nikola Antunović and Mr. Ivo Andrić candidates from the Federation of BiH, and Mr. Mustafa Ramić from the Brcko District of BiH. I thank the MPs. We're moving to point 18. That's Ad.18. The appointment of three members to the Joint Committee of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text and under (a) the Law establishing the Power Transfer Company in BiH and (b) the Law establishing an Independent Operator of the Transfer System in BiH These laws have been adopted in a different text in this and in the House of Peoples. The extended college has established a proposal to name Mr Miloš Jovanović, Mr Vinko Zorić and Mr Izet Hadžić from the House of Representatives in the Joint Committee on Both Laws. Does anyone want to talk about this proposal from the Expansive College? He doesn't want to. Thank you. I ask the House to declare the proposal that Mr Miloš Jovanović, Vinko Zorić and Izet Hadžić enter the Joint Commission for text alignment these two laws. Please state by voting now. With 34 votes for, no one against, 2 abstentions, I find that the House of Representatives has accepted that, in the framework of the Joint Committee for the Consent of the Text of the Law, only a little please, the text of the law establishing the Company for Electricity Transfer of BiH and the Law establishing an Independent System Operator, Mr Miloš Jovanović, Mr Izet Hadžić and Mr Vinko Zorić. Thank you very much. We're going to the 19th agenda, that's Ad.19. The appointment of members of the Election Commission of BiH Today we have received a list of candidates to select the appointments of members of the Electoral Commission which formed the adhoc Committee for the selection of appointments. Anyone in the name of the Committee, Mr. Vinko Zorić, please come in. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13311	And I'd just, uh, briefly because there was a dilemma here, and now they seem to be present, how to vote? The attitude of this adhoc commission, and here is Mr Ovkovic and Mr Felić, who are outside this House of Parliament, whether, the House of Representatives, were appointed to this adhoc commission, was the attitude to vote on the first. If he passes, he's elected, and if he doesn't pass the vote he's taking on the next one. We accept this, and every other opinion because this is not a vote that excludes other candidates, this is a ranking list that we have made together with the other 4 members of the commission and, for example, to be elected candidate of either of these two, or these three, then the rest remain in play in case this one is removed, resigned or not given Bog dies, as it happened for the Bosniak member of the Electoral Commission, so there would be no need to re-shape the adhoc commission, etc. But there's only one dilemma left, and we've talked about it, what if some of us are trying to make a statement about everyone, so whoever gets more votes that he's chosen. It's okay, too, but I don't think it's okay for a visa candidate to get a candidate a little vote because he's still a candidate, but we accept that because we just talked about it a little while ago, so he says that's what it was like to elect members of the college and I agree with that. So, the commission held this, 4 meetings, some of us interrupted and continued, in 26.05 we ended. It's a matter of urgency, and that's why this is, and it's put on the agenda, like this in a hurry. Someone today seems to me like a colleague of Moranjkić's has chosen as much as he chooses? One in the order of the Serb and Bosniak order is chosen, so it is known. And here, chairing this one, I have nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13312	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Nikola Špirić has come to the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13313	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Minister, for me it's not a dispute, it's all one thing to vote on. What interests me as an MP in this House is to get to the quality of the standing election commission, which needs to work hasty to prepare local elections and therefore I look forward to having this item on the agenda today. I believe that today we will reach two new members of the Election Commission, one Srbin and one Bošnjak. As always, I'm not the kind of man who wants to talk about any of the issues, let's just say the staff issues outside the meeting room. Let me tell you what I think about proposed candidates and say, from the opportunity of what will be my commitment. I regret that it is also a narrowed list again, because there have been more candidates, but here, because we had a committee in which Parliament participated, it is an obligation for us as Parliament, therefore, to accept what the Commission has delivered. So, that we have two candidates from the Serb people and three from Bosniak and if I would like to if there were candidates from the order of the Serb people more, that a complete list has been delivered that we have a wider choice, but what I want to say is that I will not vote for a candidate under regular number 2. It is Mr Branko Petrić, for the reason that again, I read in the media, and things are not denied, and that is not excessive, it is 55 people for whom there are criminal charges, which are not completed, and if it does not have to mean anything, but I have to say that RS and BiH have candidates who can serve as an example of BiH and its citizens, and not to spend time in courts, there are applications, there are no applications, removed etc. So, I'm going to give Mr. Ostoja Kremenović an advantage, unless the coalition is already formed, so that the candidates know each other, but here we will see again whether these national parties will support each other and if I am now talking about a Serbian candidate. Don't say I didn't tell you that. So, I speak publicly for which reasons I will not vote for a Serbian candidate. As far as we're concerned, I'm glad we have the opportunity to plead on all the candidates. When it comes to the Bosniak candidate, I must say that, regardless of order 1.2 and 3. That I will give priority to Mr. Vedran Hadžović, a man who is a skeleton of joint services, who is a lawyer, a man who has been with us for many years with three generations, who has established what is called services, who are doing a good part of the job, whether someone is more or less satisfied, and for the reason that, of course, when we have such a situation, the representatives of the majority here cannot agree or confirm the secretaries of the home or choose new ones. Of course, I am in this situation, and it seems to me that we are keeping people in a harmless space and that it would be collegiate of all of us MPs to support Mr Hadžović, because I suppose we know him better than those who are proposing here, regardless of which candidate is not a lawyer. So, what defines me between Vedran and Suad, which I don't know, is that Mr. Hadzovic is a lawyer, and Mr. Suad is not a lawyer, but a man who was tied to the cabinet of the interior minister. I guess at least we'll free the Standing Election Commission from people who work in the service, who deal with security because it's one entirely different business. So, I'd like to ask today to choose two good candidates. For the candidate number one Mr. Kremenović, for Mr. Petrić, I told him what the reason was, and it doesn't give me the right to support him, and for Mr. Hadžović, because the lawyer is the man I know and I think that's the only way we can talk. After all, we will also enable those who want to innovate the structure, the new structure of the home secretary, as a new political will, which came after these elections, and, of course, we will satisfy the will of our colleague, who thinks that his arrangement can be set up in the Permanent Election Commission. I don't know what the SDA and the SDS agreed, no matter what my colleague Sead throws at me, but, look, I've told you now what the reason is, and yours is to vote as well as mine. Oh, you won't let him go, so at least pick him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13314	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Replica Mr. Jovanović, then Mr. Kunić. Have you called before? Mr. Kunić. Excuse me, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13315	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, what was I going to say? I wanted to say that the selection procedure here is very controversial. In fact, if this is not governed by the Rules of Procedure, that is, the Electoral Law, the question of how to implement the 56 elections is raised. Is this parliament to determine the procedure, so we can't say by heart let's go first about this, and then about this. If it's willful, then it's not a proper system. There must be a system arranged as we perform a member of the Electoral Commission. Or it is left to the Commission to propose priorities to put 1, 2 etc. We can't vote on everyone. If we vote on the first candidate, he gets the required majority, there's no voting for another candidate. So let's not put Parliament in a situation, I don't know very seriously. We are, however, the people who, to determine the procedure for selecting candidates.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13316	Mr. Jovanović, then Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13317	Well, you see, Mr. Špirić has the right to have his own candidate. No one's challenging him. But he has no right to spit on other people. I can never allow myself to say the same thing about Mr. Kremenović when he was in the government of RS and when he was the director of PIO, anything, but I don't think I should go out there and talk about it on the basis of what the papers say. And, Mr. Špirić, as SDA and SDS agreed, you'll see on this minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13318	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić. Was it a replica? Okay, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13319	I have to tell my colleague Miloš, yes, so I accept absolutely what I know, because this is a choice in the interest of the country where I am an MP. I think it's in the interest of the candidate, not to speak, I assumed that people would understand, just remember proposing a candidate for the defence minister, what stubbornly pushing people has made of these people. So, I don't want to talk about it now. It's not just from the newspaper inscriptions, Mr. Jovanović, and that's why I just wanted to give a slight warning, I guess we don't have to, and if you insist. So there are criminal charges at a time when a man was a minister of justice in the RS government at the time of Mr. Kozić, for oil trade, for which they are still in court in Doboj. Which parliamentary majority and courts which, unfortunately,... have not been implemented do not end. That's why it is a reform. It's a serious argument for me as a State MP that I don't vote for a man. The same thing that I know about this to any candidate. I said what's wrong with others for me. So you go out and say it. Well, it won't go either way, if they're like that, and that's the solution for me. I'm not about to pass one or the other, if they have that kind of information for them. Well, I guess the RS, if she came into a situation, that there's no one clean enough to propose to the Standing Election Commission who doesn't have a criminal record, shouldn't propose. Here's a commission proposal, and here's what she suggested. Please, we need to be here in the interest of the institutions where we're talking like this. Why would they keep me quiet if he came back as a boomerang tomorrow? And I'm not a man who's nice to people. I'd be luckiest if 15 minutes now I'm missing people who were offered here. 57 That would be a lot nicer than this. And, please, I'm not going in, so I'm going in, and if you want, it's not a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13320	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić, then Mr. Avdić, that's the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13321	Well, here's what my colleague Novaković told me. I'm the one who confused the MPs. The position of the commission and the three of us to vote first. If he does, this visa-vi Petar. If he goes through it's over, so no one will, if it's known one's chosen to support two. Then it's not right. Then the representative doesn't know his basic function. If he doesn't pass first, he still stays on the ranking list. We've ranked. First, Kremenović, the second is Petrić, and that is the commission's position. And the RS Spiric didn't propose to anyone, it was a public tender. The public tender collected all the data, and the fact that they weren't all, we concluded the three of us plus the five, who aren't here that they're not for rank lists, let them meet the conditions, let them have school supplies, etc. That's how I'd like to make a statement about this. I'm not going to show my opinion here and I don't know. I've read a lot of these people. We had a situation that one candidate lied. We've had an interview with every candidate and that's one reason. We asked questions, not just about the election and the election procedure, but about everything else. And, one man who found out on the interview lied there in his application, among other things.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13322	Thank you very much. Mr. Avdić. Well, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13323	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I think Dr. Kunić is on the right track. The foundation of democracy and democracy, as you wish, is procedure. The procedure is the first time we've met with a choice. So, this Parliament, and if we want to, if we're going to wander a little bit, is not a waste, but working a year at the new Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, according to me, the right and justice can only be provided in this case, that all candidates, regardless of what the Commission did, have finished their part of the work, ranked the candidates, reviewed the documents, and simply convinced us that these are candidates who meet the conditions of the competition, which means, respecting what the Commission did and she gave priority to certain candidates, but when dom received such a proposal for a vote on all candidates. Whoever gets the parliamentary majority, which is the most visible, is simply chosen. We can't simply exclude a man from the voting process if he's in second place. We can't, we don't have the right. We must check the political will in Parliament, in the sense that we see which candidate, simply in the opinion of the House of Representatives, simply deserves to be elected to the Election Commission. So it would be objective under question, this procedure, which favors the first candidates, is voted solely for. Passed, no more later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13324	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13325	Well, I wanted to say this. No, there's no alternative that the other one that's on the list gets in later. This is where one is chosen. If there's an act in the Electoral Act, then it's possible, and if it doesn't exist, it's not possible. There isn't, as far as I know in Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13326	Mr. Momčilo Novaković asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13327	First of all, I really am not in the dilemma of how to conduct the vote. So I don't have that dilemma. For me here, the thing is quite clear. The Commission delivered what it had delivered, was set out by a vote. So, the ad-hoc commission voted, so Mr. Kremenović received four votes from the ad-hoc commission of seven, and Mr. Petrić received three votes from seven. The other members, therefore, did not get votes, some did not even meet the conditions, some were eliminated for some other reasons, etc. So, also the vote of the Bosniak people, Mr. Arnaurović received four votes, Mr. Vedran got me two votes and Mr. Bešlagić Adnan one vote. So that's, that's why a list like this was formed. And it's coming perfectly normal here now that these are going to come out on the first candidates. The first candidate. So if the first candidate, Mr. Kremenović, gets most of it, the vote is over. It is democratic, I think, a statement by Parliament. And if he doesn't get it, then the second one goes, if neither the first nor the second one gets it, gentlemen, we've chosen a member of the Electoral Commission today, that's quite clear. At least it's clear to me. The second thing I wanted to say. Each one of us will, of course, be determined by a vote. If we vote at once for more candidates, then we have to have ballots. So we can't vote, so that's this proposal, I agree, and this is a ballot. We're going to arm what we got and make it a voter's, it's not a problem. But for me, this thing, the first way to vote is quite clear. This doesn't create any dilemma for me. When it comes to candidates, of course I will state, that I will say my position by voting and it is not disputed. But I want to think it's wrong here to disqualify individual candidates, but I did so to favor some candidates, but not disqualification and others. Why isn't it right? Because then we're going into something, which I could now say, that Mr. Špirić and I went to Kostanica to correct Mr. Kremenović's mistakes. And, nonsense he did when it comes to territorial relations between Croatia and BiH. So, but, of course, that would be really unnecessary and irrelevant for a member of the Electoral Commission. It doesn't matter. Therefore, I will plead and I can immediately say that, as far as the Serbian Democratic Party is concerned, we will support Mr Petrić. That's absolute. It's no dilemma at all. I say publicly, we will support Mr. Ptrič. The man is a member of the Electoral Commission, he was a minister, he's a lawyer, if he's an important lawyer here, and on the other hand he's not important, then here is an important lawyer like in that other case an important lawyer. Thank you very much. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13328	Thank you very much. Mr. Živković, then Mr. Potočnik. Replica, Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13329	Just for a short time, in case of acceptance of the vote only on the first candidate, conditioned on the first candidate, if it passes, fundamental human rights and active and passive electoral law would be compromised. So I'm asking Parliament to plead to me as a candidate. The Commission has done its part of the job and it stops here when it's... this question, people understand that. She ranked candidates, and that's enough influence, just enough leverage to influence the MPs, but the House votes on it. The Commission has done its part of the job. Well done, thank you very much. But she simply ranked the candidates and the House will respect that or she won't respect it. So, the only rule possible is to vote for everyone and who gets the parliamentary majority, it simply wins and is a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13330	Thank you very much. Mr. Živković has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13331	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I've heard a lot of praise for the commission's work on this paper, but I only have one piece of paper in my hand. I don't know if you have any more. I believe that the commission did not do its job well and that here should have been the art of this paper to be a report, that everything Mr. Novaković now said, Mr. Zorić said, we had at least two papers, that we know how the commission managed, as she voted, on what basis did she get this list? If there's nothing in these people's biography that's on this list, that we can discuss it, that we don't think and ask whether Mr. Suad is a lawyer or not. If we could talk about the people we choose here, we had their biographies, I'm asking why the commission didn't give this report and the biographies here. For this reason, my proposal is that by next week we do not vote on this, that the commission prepares a full report or that we will now vote on the report of the commission, which has already ranked people and served us here the way we will vote. I think that would be a better suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13332	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13333	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has been tasked with determining, on the basis of the candidates reported, which comply with the prescribed regulations of that law. She chose and gave two candidates from one line of the people and three from the second row of the people. In order to normally vote, we would have to have basic elements, to decide between these three, or between these two candidates. 60 The Commission can favor or propose someone, but it is a matter of this House, of this Parliament to decide for itself. Therefore, I propose the same thing as Mr. Živković, that we get a brief description and that at the next session we declare ourselves by voting for each of these candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13334	Mr. Zorić, replica, well, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13335	Mr. Živković said the commission didn't work well. The Commission has done well. And the commission is in charge of making a ranking list and making it. She is not in charge of delivering to parliament the résumés of individual candidates. If you don't trust the Administrative Commission, which assigned these three to the ad-hoc commission, then change the Administrative Commission. So here's one MP voiced his suspicion in the work of his colleagues. Not at all, the commission worked more than well, she respected waiting candidates, spent two days interviewing candidates. It wasn't easy for me or Mr. Felić and Novaković to come one day, so the day after tomorrow because of this job and now it would have been realized that we didn't do something right. The rank list exists to vote, and it's a clear procedure, it's a vote for the first, and if it doesn't pass, I allow this to Avdić, too, but I don't think anyone's going to vote, but out of jokes for two or three, just out of jokes. I mean, I'm not saying anything. But it's from a joke. And it doesn't stand, please don't find out how the commission worked, and it looks like there's been a more apology here about the résumé, especially two candidates, but we got it in the app. So you have a lot more knowledge than we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13336	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Živković, replica to the exposure of Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13337	Just in the moment of that, I want you to understand me and Mr. Zorić about the commission's work. So, for these four sessions, which I see has been done. I didn't say the commission wasn't doing well. I thought the report we got here wasn't a good report. It's not a report telling us that so many candidates have been reported, that these candidates have not been considered for formal reasons, that it wasn't, based on what I've got here, I don't know who to define myself for. That's the only reason why I said this report was supposed to be a little more complete, which we other parliamentarians, who weren't on that committee, didn't have the opportunity to talk to these people, see their biographies, decide who we're going to vote for. I find this report not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13338	Thank you very much. The replica Mrs. Palavrić then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13339	... our esteemed colleagues, so we don't turn this home into a commission. We just wanted to turn him into the Council of Ministers, now we want to turn him into a commission, and then we won't need any commissions. I have full confidence in the commission that has formed, which has done the job, which has done the interview, it seems that we should all be doing it here and 61 have made a list, offered us a list and the information works for those who have not recently consulted the Election Law, is always the social direction VII, the social direction, including the lawyer, but other professions. And, more information, when it comes to Mr Arnautović, who is not a lawyer, he is an expert who has written so many books on elections and has been recognized all the way to America. I'm just saying it for information. So, let's vote, if he doesn't win first, he'll get another one, we'll vote until someone passes and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13340	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13341	Since I was a member of the Commission, let me say that we've been working on some of the acts there. So, if the commission had a rulebook that she was working on, which she adopted at the first session when she was established and then she chose the chairman and adopted the act of co-operation she was working on. He also told the chairman of the commission that he had also delivered the minutes from the meeting, the last meeting. So she delivered the record, which we didn't get here, but was delivered to the chairman's hands. I mean, this is what I'm saying. The commission did its job in quality and delivered the candidates ranked, which is what was expected of her and what was the act adopted by her regulation. Whether someone likes them or doesn't like them is a matter of voting. The commission primarily went with the way Mr Zorić said it would vote. So, I went with the proposal to vote, so by the rank list first, so if the first one gets a sufficient number of votes, of course not to vote on the second one, and if the first one doesn't get a vote, then the second one is voted on, and if he doesn't get a second one, then the third one, etc. The second is not eliminated at all, if the first one received most of the votes, so the first one is, therefore, democratically, the majority, and the second one is in the minority. By that very act of choice, he remained in the minority, as soon as one got the majority. I suggest that we vote this way today and choose this committee, a team before this commission now works without two members. A team before the chairman of this commission should now be from the Serb people, or twenty days ago he was to take over the presidency from the Serb people, he did not take over because he was not there. So it's very important, and so they told us in the Electoral Commission that it's very important that we complete it to start working as soon as possible, given the elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13342	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik, Moranjkić, I apologize. I also had your name typed in. It's a technical mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13343	Let's just say we have trust. I suggest we vote for every candidate and one who has the most votes to adopt it, because that way is not equal. It doesn't give an equal opportunity to every candidate. And that's not democratic. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13344	Thank you very much. Mr. Moranjkić, did you ask for a word, Mr. Moranjkić, and Mr. Džaferović, then Mr. Kunić. I'm asking you to hold on and let us finish this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13345	Mr. Chairman, I think, as I understand it, and the truth that I immediately asked Mr. Zorić's hallway. I thought it was supposed to be a sentence to pick one out, many of us weren't thinking about whether we should, because now we see from one nation three, from one two, that it's not about the election now, some change, etc. Well, I don't think so, and... it's a coincidence that it's not written in that report of these chosen ones. True, I suppose that the commission, no matter what order she put in, has achieved by voting, has brought here five equal members, who are to be voted on by this House and to be assigned to their place. This imposes, in my opinion, the right for all the people of these five to be equal in front of this house and to be equally heard about, or declared. That's why I'm closest to Mr. Sead Avdić's option, yes, simply because it bothers someone to put each and count down, Muhamed got ten, got the Lozančih 20, passed Lozančić, didn't Muhamed etc. which we're suddenly making a joke out of it and a story, because actually we're starting to think that they're all even here and we're going to do it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13346	Thank you very much. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13347	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time I've answered my word today to try to help our home get out of this situation. So Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's Rules of Procedure has not settled the issue. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' Rules of Procedure did not arrange the selection procedure in such cases. The Rules of Procedure have arranged procedures for selecting members of the College and we have seen how this procedure looks on two occasions. The Rules of Procedure have a procedure when it comes to confirming the Council, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers themselves, and we have only met once with the elections in Parliament, we have done so when we elected a member of the Bosnian and Herzegovina presidency in the order of the Serbian people, which is also not governed by this Rules of Procedure, but is governed by a law that determines the issue. Therefore, the question of election of an Electoral Commission member, first of all, you must know that this House has complemented the Election Law in that direction and resolved the situation, which concerns the Election Commission and the regulations that had previously been applicable, but therefore, that question has not been settled by the Rules of Procedure and has not been regulated by the Election Law. Democratic is everything we've heard here today. So I've heard two suggestions. One is coming from a commission, which is completely legitimate and the commission has the right to propose it, when it comes to the procedure, and the other is coming from Mr Avdić, who is also fully legitimate and he is actually proposing the selection of 63 members of the commission, in the way that members of the College of this House are elected, as I understood Mr Avdić. So both proposals are legitimate. In the first proposal, therefore, the commission, I could not accept the second part so that those who are not elected would remain on the list and be a substitute for future cases. In future cases, the competition is being re-scheduled. That part I couldn't accept. Please, just let me finish. I'm trying to help. So, for me there are two proposals here, this house determines the procedure and I think that we as Dom need first of all to state which procedure of these two possible procedures we will accept, so when we decide that we should then go to the choice, by asking Mr Zorić, which is why the most I have come out, the rest is more or less familiar. This second part of the proposal he made, whether on behalf of the commission, it's probably on behalf of the commission, who says that that horse was elected remains on the list, so if it needs an Electoral Commission member from some people, then it goes, no, it can't be accepted. There must be a re-competition and a complete procedure must be conducted, and I would ask that part to be given up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13348	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić, I apologize to Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13349	It's not my position or the committee's position. But we've been told it's in accordance with regulations. We won't, our commission will do the work. She actually stopped. We're just dealing with a kind of witchcraft right now. This is a ranking list of candidates. We're not going to determine that, we're going to have regulations. We're so instructed in the Electoral Commission, because we kept all the Sassars there, it's a regulation. If it isn't, no one can break the rules.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13350	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13351	Bona fide, what the lawyers would say, is that I intend to help resolve this issue. The right is not, it sometimes acts as just justice, but the right has its own rules and, of course, it needs to be respected. Be o' Mr. Džaferović is right. It's not arranged. What I said at the beginning. It is not governed by the Electoral Law or by the Rules of Procedure. Eh, now, what to do is ask a question. Then the election procedure is decided by the Assembly, because the assembly is competent to adopt the Rules of Procedure and to pass the Electoral Law. The assembly now needs to determine the voting procedure. The Commission's proposal comes down to the following. She put forward a proposal, a variant solution for two candidates. This is prepared for a secret vote. If you take equal treatment, then we have to get the leaves and round up. You can't declare this by electronic means. It can't, it's not common. There are two candidates. But then the solution, which Professor Avdić said, falls away. The first candidate to get most votes, no more voting on the second. Well, you can see that things aren't simple. They're like I say, breaking the Rules of Procedure and all the Assembly can do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13352	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13353	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a completely different opinion than what we've heard here. First, when Mr. Novaković, Mr. Zorić and Džaferović and Sead can't, without it at all, easily agree and essentially tell the same story, gentlemen thinking MPs, in the sense that we offered you both one way or another... but it will be from the Bosniak people under one, and it will be from the Serb people under two. Eh, now I'm asking you gentlemen from the commission. So that I wouldn't be here or anyone else, you put green glasses on him, so the haystack place, eat green grass. You've been working within the commission. They said what procedure. Some MPs said what was missing, as a biography, but you didn't say the key question of how many there were, but you send it in the light of the minutes to the chairman, because there's a lot of material, and it could say in one sentence one of my names, some Tihomir, if you remember, so answer me, whether he met the conditions and why he wasn't here under three and four, and who inside the Commission carried out the triage, and then the story starts from this moment, when we get the ballot. It's like there's justice here. It's like it's true here. It's like there wasn't any triage political around here. Gentlemen, there were political agreements. You have agreed that within that vote, that within the commission be seven to four. I'm a democracy. And in that case, you all say you did well, and you essentially made a political deal, made a combination within the commission, to fool, because you're politically skilled, you rule for 12 years, it's not easy, and we people here have one prank. Return this commission, let it be written and that one of my names is Tihomir to meet or not meet the conditions. So there's ten of them here, since you've worked so hard. Why don't we see it and say we did our job with honor, you didn't have secret political arrangements and you won't go through democracy and form, in which you can't object, if you don't know the truth. The morning is smarter than the evening, Mr. Jusufović. I would suggest, indeed, that you return, otherwise as an MP, I will ask for proof to carry out an insight and simply tell this assembly whether there was a cover-up of cadets that met the conditions, if you didn't list them, I wouldn't believe it. You know that folk thing. Trust me, but check it out. So, and your colleagues, like you did when I was on that interrogation committee, so to speak. The coup, too, until later, Mrs. Seada Palavrić asked for it, we want to execute, we will form a commission to investigate the commission's work. I have the right to do that, too, because I have more candidates, and I told this denominator, that it's easier to remember. You know my name. The other is it, there's no dilemma, it's not this Tihomir. So I'm expressing my suspicion that you've been working correctly, and that's why I suggest that it return to the commission, and that on this one more piece of paper, it just says who was and it meets the conditions, and that we know how you carried out that triage. I think it's normal, which one of the MPs needs to know, because this is a big question. You gentlemen know how you work in the municipalities this way. You have an election commission, you have polling stations, you have those who steal papers and who don't come, don't come out, and now you raise it to BiH level, you shut down the system. Well done. As MPs, my dear MPs, I ask you to reject this and return it to the commission to obtain complete information and declare your peace of mind, believe the BiH Election Commission when it is complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13354	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Džaferović, then Mr. Zorić. Please, MPs, this is the last point, to endure. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13355	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, so I didn't just go out for a pay phone here with any other intent, except with the intention that as far as I know in this matter, I'm helping this home to get out of this situation that we're in. Mr. Gligorić, you have completely unsure about my name at the beginning of your replica or discussion, and I want to tell you that I, of course and your proposal, consider it completely legitimate to make this House known and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13356	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13357	I wanted to tell my colleague Tihomir that we accepted all the apps and that those who failed to meet the council didn't even come to the interview. So that's just the reason that goes on. It's not just a tender condition to be on this list. The one who meets the requirements, it's his ticket to the interview, and then we're questioning the candidates, and we've determined that these five candidates are satisfying. Were we subjective, were we agreed, were we expert? I can question all of this, but you chose us. And the High Court and Prosecution Council chose those two, and from the Electoral Commission it was those two. I don't remember who Tihomir is. There was one Tihomir, I don't know, and I also suggest that Mr. Džferović vote on Mr. Gligorić's proposal, but then I would also ask the President of the Administrative Commission to do the job for someone else. We've done our job, I mean quality and correct. I'm not running again, if the Administrative Commission orders me to do that job again, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13358	Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13359	I suggest you don't get too complicated, because you're going to refuse my proposal, so I'm going to take it back and wish you luck, it's going to be 1 and 2, like I said, so my God. I haven't discovered America, but the straw has discovered your game, which you speak in the form of democracy, and tomorrow it will help you deceive these citizens and conquer power and nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13360	Did you finish Mr. Gligorić? I think today you've had the opportunity of an entire leprosy and lucidity and arguments and experiences. Thank you very much and don't be mad at my intervention and I have to bring this to an end. I am concluding the debate, and now that it has indeed been here, I respect all the debate, I think it would be the most correct, since it is not specified by the Rules of Procedure, to determine first on the proposal of the commission, or the commission, on how to vote, and then on the second proposal to vote in line on all candidates. I don't see that another possible, correct way out. Are you okay with that? First, I would like to put forward a proposal from the commission to first declare the number 1 in the order of the Serb people. If they get most, we think people are chosen, just to finish 66, and the second debate is closed. You can discuss this proposal, and the second is, the proposal was made by Mr Avdić, who was here in the debate. So, let's go out in order and who gets more votes. And I think that's correct. I'm asking, I'm not questioning anything. Do you want Mr. Lozančić, then Mr. Zorić?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13361	Nothing about voting and affidavit, but simply Mr. Džaferović explained part of it, but again Mr. Zorić, the president of the ad-hoc commission, brought me into a dilemma. We need to know because of the record and the public that there is no member here, they will not be elected. So, the competition has requested two members and we choose two members. This order means nothing. So people don't later think they're in the game, like you said about some regulations, that they're in the game, like backup members, so they can sometimes come without a contest.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13362	Thank you very much, Mr. Lozančić. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13363	I just wanted to give an explanation, that this election commission, someone asked me why I was actually sorry, they called me from the Electoral Commission, when they made this record, whose member we're going to read before and people are asking that. So, before these two or these three. I remembered that we were elected to the ad-hoc commission to elect a Serbian member of the Electoral Commission and in the meantime a Bosniak member died and I remembered and I say put it before the Srbin and therefore I suggest that we make a choice here also of a Serbian member of the Electoral Commission and then of the Bosniak. So it's not the first, first, then the second, second, but the choice of a Serb member, then the Bosniak member of the Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-09-0.u13364	I ask you to be clear about the ad-hoc proposal of our electoral commission on how and procedure they proposed. Vote now. So, this proposal has received the necessary majority in both general and entity, and we move to a statement under the proposal of the ad-hoc electoral commission of our home, and we will first declare on the election committee's proposal to choose as a member of the Election Commission of BiH from the order of the Serb people under the 1st Mr. Kremenović Ostoja. I ask the House of Representatives to plead on this proposal. Vote now. So this proposal didn't get the necessary majority. I would now like to make a statement about the proposal to elect Mr. Petrić Branko as a member of the BiH Election Commission from the Serb people. Please vote now. With 21 votes to, 10 against, 3 abstentions. 13 is from the Federation, 8 is from the RS. I find that the House of Representatives has decided to elect Mr. Petrić Branko as a member of the BiH Election Commission, out of the order of the Serb people. 67 Can we figure this out, this first part? Thank you very much. We're going to the other side. We are acting on the proposal of our ad-hoc electoral commission and we first declare on the proposal to elect Mr. Master Arnautović Suad as a member of the Election Commission of BiH. I'm asking Dom to vote now. With 17 votes for, 13 against, 4 abstentions and the necessary entity majority, this proposal has the necessary majority in this home. This is a proposal selected according to the Rules of Procedure. Have we decided on the procedure and on our own, Dom had previously declared that we had a second procedure, we had a chance. I suggested it myself. I think I've brought this to the maximum correct. The home has been made known about all the proposals, the result is what it is. I can only conclude that a member of the Bosniak People's Election Commission has been elected Mr. Master Arnautović Suad, according to the procedure proposed by the ad-hoc election commission and decided by this House to conclude. Thank you very much. This concludes the work of the 38th session of the House of Representatives. I am reporting to the MPs that the 39th session will be held at 9:00 this month. You will receive a agenda and a supplement to the agenda, given the demands we have received from the Council of Ministers. You'll have plenty of time to prepare. The session was completed at 5:20 p.m.
